Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17268 TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
CESME - ALACATI WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
March 19, 1998
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 1997)
Currency Unit  =  Turkish Lira (TL)
TLI  =  US$0.000005
US$1   =  TL199.051
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
TL per US$1
CY 1993       CY 1994       CY 1995       CY 1996    CY 1997
10,965        29,770        45,678        81,048     151,239
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CALBIR   -  Cesme - Alacati Union
CAS   -  Country Assistance Strategy
CPAR   -  Country Procurement Assessment Review
CIF   -  Cost, Insurance and Freight
DSI   -  State Hydraulic Agency
EU   -  European Union
GDRS   -  General Directorate of Rural Services
GNP   -  Gross National Product
IB   -  Iller Bank (Provinces Bank)
ICB   -  International Competitive Bidding
IRR   -  Internal Rate of Return
IS   -  International Shopping
LIBOR   -  London InterBank Rate
MOE   -  Ministry of Environrnent
MOT   -  Ministry of Tourism
NBF   -  Not Bank Financed
NCB   -  National Competitive Bidding
NGO   -  Non Governmental Organization
NS   -  National Shopping
OED   -  Operations Evaluation Department
PIS   -  Project Implementation Schedule
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
QCBS   -  Quality and Cost Based Selection
SPO   -  State Planning Organization
TURKEY - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Ajay Chhibber, ECCO6
Sector Director: Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Leader Walter Stottmann, ECSIN
Responsible Staff: Bernardo Gomez (Principal Financial Analyst - Task Leader); Sudipto Sarkar
(Operations Officer); Klas Ringskog (Principal Economist); and Ibrahim Sirer
(Engineer)



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
CESME-ALACATI WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......................................          i
COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND ..............1................... 
A. Country Profile .1
B. Municipal Govemance.                                                     2
C.  Water Supply and Sewerage Sector.                                       2
D.  Government's Sector Objectives.                                         3
E.    Bank's Previous Experience in the Sector in Turkey.                   4
F. Bank's Sector Strategy.                                                  5
G.    Worldwide Bank Experience in the Sector and Lessons Lea   rned        6
H.    Water Supply & Sewerage Services in Cesme and Alacati                 6
II. THE PROJECT    ..10
A. Background .10
B.    Project Development Objective & Components .10
C. Project Cost .11
D. Financing Plan .12
E. Environmental Issues .13
F.  Project Implementation Schedule .14
G.  Institutional Arrangements .15
H. Procurement .18
I.  Loan Disbursements. .19
J.  Accounts, Audit and Reporting .20
K.    Supervision and Annual/Mid-term Review .21
III. FINANCE    ..22
A.  Financial Management and Performance .22
B.  Projected Financial Performance .23
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS    ..25
A. Project Benefits .25
B. Project Risks .28
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .32



TABLES
1.    Project Cost Estimates ..........................                         12
2.    Project Financing Plan .......................... 13
3.    Proposed Procurement Arrangements .......................... 19
4.    Allocation of Bank Loan Proceeds .......................... 20
5.    Estimated Loan Disbursements ..........................  20
6.    Water Consumption and Tariffs .......................... 27
ANNEXES
1.    Bank's Experience in Turkey's Water and Wastewater Sector
2.    Project Implementation Plan
3.    Project Cost
4.    Environmental Analysis of Sea Water Discharge
5.    Quarterly Loan Disbursement Estimates
6.    Water and Sewerage Services - Financial Performance
7.    Annual Water Demand
8.    Water Supply and Sewerage Balance Sheet
9.    Economic Analysis
10.   Calculation of Average Incremental Cost of Consumption During Peak Bi-mester
11.   Affordability of Tariffs by Residents
12.   Cost Comparison of Wells and the CALBIR system
MAPS
1.   IBRD Map 29345: Wastewater Component
2.    IBRD Map 29346: Water Supply Component



CESME - ALACATI WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Executive Loan and Project Summary
Borrower and
Implementing Agency:    Cesme-Alacati Union (CALBIR)
Total Project Cost:      US$24.0 million
IBRD Loan Amount:        US$13.1 million
Lending Terms:           Seventeen years, including five years grace period, at the IBRD
standard variable interest rate for LIBOR-based US Dollar Single
Currency loan.
Project Objectives:      This project along with other Bank's lending and non-lending
services to Turkey will: (i) bring about institutional development of
the Union of municipalities to promote municipal services; (ii)
increase efficiency of delivering infrastructure services through the
introduction of a private operation; and (iii) improve water quality,
sewerage service, and environmental conditions. The improved
infrastructure services will help to promote the tourism industry in
the area.
Project Description:     To achieve these objectives, the project would comprise the
following components:
(a)   Institutional Development (21% of base cost) consisting of
strengthening the CALBIR by:
(i)   setting up of the Union's technical and financial
management systems, including auditing, staff
training and office equipment;
(ii)   hiring and monitoring the performance of a private
operator for improved water and sewerage services;
(iii)  providing technical assistance for a high level of
project supervision; and
(iv)  technical assistance  on  environmental issues,
including the protection of sea water quality.



(b) Improving the Operational Condition of the Water Supply
System (15% of base cost) consisting of:
(i)  hydrogeological  investigation  to  increase  water
production of the wells in the Ildir area; district metering
to reduce commercial loss; and chlorination for safer
water quality;
(ii) relocation of wells in the Ildir area and rehabilitation of
the pumping stations, to improve their operational
conditions;
(iii) construction of a water barrier (about 500m long) to
protect the aquifer in the Ildir area from sea water
intrusion;
(iv) provision of operational equipment to improve water
and wastewater services; and
(v)  provision for urgent repairs and upgrading of the water
supply system to reduce losses (Urgent Repairs and
Upgrading).
(c)  Completion of Sewerage System (64% of base cost)
(i)  development and  improvement of the  sewerage
network, consisting of the upgrading and expansion of
the sewerage network through the construction of the
main sewer pipes from the Cesme area to Ilica, and the
construction of the sewerage networks including house-
discharges in the areas of: Cesme, Alacati, and Ilica;
(ii) acquisition and installation of mechanical and electrical
equipment, and pipes for pumping stations (TM2, TM6,
TM17, and TM18); and
(iii) construction of a pre-treatment plant for the combined
waste water flow from Cesme and Alacati to discharge
into the sea through the already constructed sea outfall
in Alacati.
Project Benefits:        The Project along with other Bank's lending and non-lending
services identified as priority in the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy to Turkey (CAS of August 6, 1997) will create an
institutionally strengthened Union of municipalities, introduce



iii
private sector participation in the provision of services, contribute
to improved water and sewerage services, environmental
conditions, and protect the tourism industry. The creation of the
Cesme-Alacati Union is an important institutional achievement,
with potential for replication in other small municipalities in Turkey,
to help remove the diseconomies of scale present in each individual
municipality.  The Project would generate economic benefits
because:
(a) more water can be consumed through increased production,
reduced losses, and improved quality;
(b) the risk of water wastewater-related diseases will drop since
water will be chlorinated; and
(c) the environmental situation will improve since the present spills
of raw septic sludge in areas adjacent to Ilica and Alacati will
be discontinued.
Environmental
Impact:              The project has been classified as a category 'B' project.   An
environmental review has been carried out consistent with the provisions of
the World Bank's OD 4.01 Environmental Assessment and the applicable
environmental procedures of the Government of the Republic of Turkey.
The Project brings about positive environmental impacts due to increased
efficiency in the use of water, improved water quality, and provisions for
collecting and pre-treating wastewater.   There are no  significant
environmental effects due to the discharge of wastewater from the sea
outfall.
Project Risks:     There are four types of risks, all of which will
influence the project's economic return.  The four kinds of risk are
institutional, technical, financial, and market. The institutional risks refer to
the likelihood that no private operator will be attracted to bid for the
management contract or that a private operator will abandon the contract.
The risk that there will be no private operator bidding is judged to be small,
given that potential bidders have already expressed interest in using the
Cesme/Alacati management contract as a low-risk option of gaining a
foothold in the potentially large Turkish water supply and wastewater
market. In addition, the Project will cover the fixed and start-up costs of
the operator through the Bank loan, creating an incentive for private sector
participation. The institutional risk of putting the inexperienced CALBIR at
a disadvantage of dealing with an experienced private operator should also
be mitigated by hiring consultants to assist the CALBIR in supervising the
private operator. The technical risks center around the possibility that
water quality, water production and water consumption will not increase as



iv
projected. In order to mitigate this risk, investments aiming at increasing
water quantity and quality are programmed early in the project
implementation period, in 1998 and 1999. Further, system losses will be
reduced through the investments for urgent repairs and upgrading of
existing infrastructure. The financial risks comprise the failure of the
CALBIR generating a sufficient level of cash to finance its share of
investments, and the possible reluctance of consumers to paying the higher
tariffs forecasted under the Project.  The risk would materialize if
consumers perceived water quality to be no better with the project. This
risk should be mitigated through a public information campaign where the
expected benefits of the safer and more plentiful future water supply and of
the sewerage system are explained to all consumers. Such a campaign is
planned by the mayors of Cesme and Alacati to coincide with the start-up
of the Project. In addition there is a financial risk due to cost overruns.
This risk, however, is not a major one as the cost estimates include
adequate provisions for unforeseen events. In addition, there is no risk of a
lumpy investment not being completed as all project investments are small
and, thus, there is enough flexibility in the project design to delay some
small investments if necessaiy without compromising the achievement of
the project objectives. Also, the CALBIR should be in a position to
finance any cost overruns with the cash surpluses expected for the year
2002 and thereafter. The market risk centers around the possibility that
consumers will prefer to use private wells over the CALBIR system
because of the cost of the services. For new customers, this is not a major
risk as the cost of services is similar under the two alternatives. For the
existing users, the CALBIR system will be more expensive and as a result
there could be reluctance to give up the use of private wells. This risk will
have to be mitigated by the implementation of a plan to phase out the use
of private wells; many of which cannot guarantee a safe or sufficient water
supply and also result in an inefficient use of water resources.



v
Project Cost:
----------------US$ Million---------------
Project Components                    Local       Foreign       Total  % Foreign
A. Institutional Capacity Building      1.0        2.5          3.5       70
B. Improvement of Water Supply Quality    1.3      1.3          2.6       50
C. Completion of Sewerage System        4.4        6.5         10.9       60
Base Cost                            6.7       10.3         17.0       61
D. Physical Contingencies               0.7         1.0         1.7       59
E. Price Contingencies                  0.9        1.3          2.2       59
Total Project Cost                  8.3        12.6         20.9       60
F. Taxes & Duties                       3.1        --           3.1        0
Total Cost                          11.4       12.6         24.0       53
Financing Plan:
----------------US$ Million----------------
Local      Foreign       Total   % Total
IBRD                                    0.4       12.7         13.1       54
Cesme Alacati Union                     5.4        0.0          5.4       23
Ministry of Tourism                     5.5        0.0          5.5       23
Total Financiers                       11.3       12.7         24.0      100
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year             FY99        FY00         FY01        FY02       FY03
Annual                        1.0         2.4          3.6         3.5         2.6
Cumulative                    1.0         3.4          7.0         10.5       13.1
Internal Rate of Return:       23%
Poverty Category:              n/a
Project ID Number:             TR-PA-8985






REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
CESME-ALACATI WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Country Profile
1.1   Turkey currently has a population of about 63 million which has grown at an average
annual rate of about 2.3 percent during the last decade. About 60 percent of the total population
lives in urban centers. The per capita income was about US$2,900 in 1997. Although there is
little absolute poverty, inequality is high, with considerable differences in income between regions
and between rural and urban areas. Most health indicators, including infant mortality rates, have
shown substantial improvement over the same period, but regional disparities remain significant.
1.2   The recent performance of the Turkish economy has been mixed.  Following the
financial crisis of 1994, there has been a strong sustained recovery of growth. However, the
public finances remain weak, and inflation and interest rates persist at very high levels. Real
GNP increased by an estimated 6.5 percent in 1997 thanks largely to the 1996 customs union
with the EU and the rapid expansion of business opportunities in the countries of the former
Soviet Union. Exports increased by 15 percent in volume terms, helping to build a relatively
comfortable level of foreign exchange reserves (4 months of imports). Although financial
markets in Turkey were not too badly affected by the recent Asian currency crisis, the
increasing volatility of the international environment highlights the vulnerability of the Turkish
economy due to its long-standing financial and structural imbalances. The government has
been working since late 1997 to introduce a package of measures aimed at correcting the fiscal
deficit on a sustainable basis and reducing inflation. A number of steps have already been
taken, including sizable cuts in agricultural subsidies. There appear to be improved prospects
for an acceleration of the long-delayed privatization program as well. Reform legislation and
other changes are also envisaged in critical areas such as social security, the tax system and
banking sector. However, action has been delayed. It remains to be seen whether Turkey's
coalition government can build the necessary consensus to accelerate and expand the pace and
scope of economic adjustment and reform.
1.3   Tourism is an important element of Turkey's economy. According to Turkey's 1996-2000
Seventh Five-year Development Plan, the number of tourists increased from about 4.5 million in
1989 to about 9.7 million in 1997, generating net tourism revenue of about US$7.0 billion. Over
the same period the tourism sector accounted for around 2.0% of total fixed capital investment,
and total bed capacity increased from about 150,000 to about 300,000. Current plans call for a
continuous expansion with the following targets for the year 2000: reaching a total bed capacity
of about 800,000, attracting about 13 million visitors, and generating a net tourism revenue of



2 -
about US$8.5 billion. However, as recognized by the Seventh Plan, achievement of these targets
is put at risk by the persistence of severe deficiencies in tourism-related infrastructure and
services. These, together with growing deterioration of environmental conditions in the main
tourism host areas, risk the loss of Turkey's competitiveness vis-a-vis other Mediterranean
countries.
B. Municipal Governance
1.4   Turkey's system  of municipal administration differs depending on the size of the
jurisdictions. Currently, sixteen large cities of populations of 400,000 or more are administered,
in accordance with the Metropolitan Law (Law 3030), under a regime of so-called 'fietropolitan
municipalities" which provides for specific fiscal arrangements and mandates specific
organizational structures for the delivery of local services. Medium-size cities and small towns
with a population of at least 2,000 have a lesser degree of administrative autonomy and are
administered in accordance with the Municipal Law (Law 1580). Localities of less than 2,000
inhabitants and rural areas have no administrative autonomy and come under the direct
administration of the Provincial Governor. Municipal revenues are, to a large extent, derived
from the redistribution of central government tax revenues channeled through Iller Bank and, to a
lesser extent, from an array of taxes, fees and contributions defined by the Municipal Revenue
Law (Law 2464).
1.5   All municipal authorities are elected for a mandate of five years. Municipalities are
administered by a mayor who presides over an executive committee, as the executive body, and
the municipal assembly, as the legislative body. Municipal administrations have little autonomy as
they are constrained by a wide range of legal and administrative problems including: (a) lack of
transparency of the role of central organizations like Iller Bank; (b) rigidity of the legislation on
municipal administrative structure; (c) Government control of municipalities' authority to mobilize
local resources; and (d) inappropriateness of salary structures which, in accordance with
prevailing laws, are fixed at the central government level.
C. Water Supply and Sewerage Sector
1.6   Throughout Turkey, service coverage for water supply is, on average, relatively high but
quality of water delivered is often poor. Average consumption is about 80 liters/day/consumer
(Vd/c). Sewerage coverage is low. The low sewerage coverage, together with and uncontrolled
sewage discharges, often result in environmental hazards, especially in coastal areas. Water and
sewerage service revenues typically only cover operating costs (though not always). Capital
investments are funded on a grant basis by the central government through Iller Bank or
occasionally from external sources. Authority for setting water and sewerage tariffs rests with
municipal authorities.
1.7   Responsibility for water supply and sewerage in Turkey is shared by institutions of both
the central and the local governments. At the central government level the six main institutions
involved are:



- 3 -
*  the State Planning Organization (SPO), which reviews and approves
investment plans;
*  the State Hydraulic Agency (DSI), which administers national water
resources, develops major water sources, and provides bulk water supply to
cities with populations greater than 100,000;
* the Bank of the Provinces (Iller Bank), which administers central government
fiscal transfers to local governments and designs, funds, and executes works
for water supply, sewerage, and solid waste collection and disposal for small
cities;
*  the General Directorate of Rural Services (GDRS), which provides water
supply and sanitation in rural areas;
*  the Ministry of Health, which sets standards of quality for water sources and
water supply to consumers and monitors compliance; and
D  the  Ministry  of Environment (MOE), which  monitors and  enforces
environmental legislation through its branch offices at the provincial
government level.
1.8    In the sixteen largest cities designated as metropolitan municipalities (para. 1.4), water
supply and sewerage services are the responsibility of autonomous utilities owned by the
metropolitan and district municipalities. The first of these utilities, the Istanbul Water and
Sewerage Company (ISKI) was established in 1981 at the time of the Bank approval of the loan
for the third Istanbul Project. In smaller municipalities, water supply and sewerage services are
provided by municipal departments.
1.9   Some municipalities which are too small to effectively operate services or carry out
required investments have established multi- or single-purpose municipal Unions for the joint
provision of services. Under Law 1580, Unions have the legal status and the prerogatives of a
local authority in all matters concerning the delivery of the services for which they have been
established; that is, they have full ownership of assets, are authorized to set tariffs, fees, and other
charges related to service activities and collect corresponding revenues, and are allowed to
borrow from domestic or external sources for investments to execute works. They are also are
permitted to subcontract the provision of services to private operators through lease or
management contracts or participate in joint ventures.
D. Government's Sector Objectives
1.10 As outlined in Turkey's 1996-2000 Seventh Five-Year Development Plan, the objectives
of the central government and its different agencies responsible for the water supply and sewerage
sector are to:



-4 -
*  satisfy the drinking water needs of the population not currently served;
*  promote the construction of sewerage networks and treatment facilities; and
*  promote the development of new management systems for water supply and
sewerage operations, including the encouragement of private sector
participation.
1.11  The above objectives are all the more challenging as, due to population growth, services
will need to be provided to an estimated additional 16 million inhabitants over the next decade,
while simultaneously improving the quality of the services and rehabilitating dilapidated
infrastructure. The 10-year total investment program for the construction of new facilities and
upgrading of existing urban water supply and sewerage systems and waste water treatment
facilities during the 1990s requires financing resources of US$10.0 billion equivalent.
1.12  A government's policy objective is the preservation and improvement of the environment.
Water pollution is an acute problem in urban and industrial zones in major metropolitan
municipalities and is also beginning to become an issue in the tourism areas of the Aegean and
Mediterranean coasts, which are the backbone of Turkey's tourism industry. There is a growing
concern regarding the need to better protect groundwater and surface water resources, as well as
to safeguard natural tourism attractions such as beaches and coastal sea waters. Legislation and
regulations adopted in the 1980s and early 1990s have permitted the central government and the
municipalities to take a more aggressive stance toward environmental protection.  The
enforcement of environmental laws and regulations is generally the responsibility of the
municipalities and the provincial governments. While the enforcement capability of the provincial
and local authorities is still developing, they are making progress in monitoring water quality, and
in planning for substantial investments in water and sewerage facilities to mitigate incipient
problems. In keeping with government's intention to eventually join the European Union (EU),
and as a general target for water quality standards, the central government is seeking to
progressively improve norms for effluent discharges to EU levels.
E. Bank's Previous Experience in the Sector in Turkey
1.13  The Bank started assisting the water and sewerage sector in Turkey in 1972 through a
combination of lending and non-lending services. The lending services are made up of nine loans
amounting to US$1,046 million (Annex 1). The non-lending services are made up a variety of
activities, including a sector report (1993), seminars on alternative institutional arrangements for
the provision of water and sewerage services, and study tours to other countries to observe these
arrangements in practice.
1.14  The results of the Bank's assistance, as measured by the rating of the five projects already
closed, are very similar to the Bank-wide result of its interventions in the sector. Three projects
were rated satisfactory, while two projects were rated unsatisfactory. The financial and
institutional strengthening achievements under the five projects were below appraisal
expectations. The two unsatisfactory projects did not achieve their physical targets.



- 5 -
1.15  Three of the four ongoing projects have been in execution for several years, and the
borrowers are making good progress toward the achievement of their physical objectives,
although with delays. Progress in the institutional and financial areas is, as in the case of the
closed loans, less satisfactory. The fourth ongoing project, Antalya Water and Sewerage Project,
was designed taking into account the less than satisfactory experience with the municipal water
and sewerage companies and thus introduces a major institutional change by incorporating the
provision of services by a private firm rather than by a traditional water and sewerage company.
The private firm, competitively selected, took over the water and sewerage systems in early 1997.
1.16  Some indicators of the less than satisfactory performance are the following: first, the water
and sewerage companies have been unable to attain full cost recovery levels despite substantial
real tariff increases. The main reason for this disappointing result is that the companies are
generating revenues equivalent only to 40% to 60% of potential revenues at the prevailing tariff
levels. The remaining revenues are lost as a consequence of water leakages in the system and of
inadequate billing and collection practices. And, second, the financial relationships between the
water and sewerage companies and other public sector entities lack transparency and discipline:
the municipalities and many public sector agencies often do not pay their water bills, and the
water companies reciprocate by not paying their financial obligations to the Government and
other public sector agencies.
1.17  The net result of weaknesses like the ones above is that: (i) customers continue receiving
unsatisfactory services due to the financial constraints and lack of commercial orientation of the
water and sewerage companies; (ii) unfair treatment to customers paying their bills as they
subsidize non-payers; and (iii) the fiscal implications of the provision of the services are not fully
known.
F. Bank's Sector Strategy
1.18  The Bank's strategy in the sector has changed emphasis over time. In the first operation in
1972 the focus was on soundly designed and well implemented physical facilities. Later, in the
1980s, increased attention was placed on institutional arrangements and, within this context, the
Bank encouraged the Government to establish municipal water and sewerage utilities with the
expectation that they would adopt a commercial orientation, and would be free from political
interference. These expectations were not fully realized (para. 1.14). More recently, and as a
way to overcome the weaknesses of the municipal water and sewerage companies, the Bank's
strategy has sought to promote private participation in the provision of water and sanitation
services (para. 1.15). In addition, the Bank's current strategy aims at providing support to sector
development in medium and small municipalities. The proposed Project is consistent with current
Bank's strategy as it promotes private sector participation in the provision of services and also
provides assistance to small municipalities.



-6-
G. Worldwide Bank Experience in the Sector and Lessons Learned
1.19  Several OED reports as well as other Bank surveys have concluded that although water
and sewerage projects have often been successful in achieving their physical objectives, the
success in improving the institutional performance of the water utilities has been limited. Some of
the reasons for the less than expected results were:
*     inadequate linkages between physical and institutional objectives;
*     lack of qualified management and financial autonomy of local utilities;
*     staff inexperience in project implementation and institutional problem solving;
*     project complexity;
*     lack of reliable information on production and consumption patterns that prevented
the design of well-focused unaccounted-for-water reduction programs and
adequate tariff structures; and
*     problems related to cost recovery and timely provision of counterpart funds.
1.20  These lessons have been incorporated into the design of the proposed project by:
hiring a private firm to provide water and sewerage services on behalf of the
CALBIR;
*     strengthening the institutional capacity of CALBIR to implement the Project and
to hire and monitor the performance of the private provider of services;
*     securing strong support for the project from the local authorities, civil society and
central government;
*     defining the scope of the project within the financial capability of the CALBIR; and
*     simplicity in project design and limiting the physical investments to critical
infrastructure required to provide clean water, without rationing and improved
sewerage service.
H. Water Supply and Sewerage Services in Cesme and Alacati
1.21  Beneficiar Cities. Cesme and Alacati municipalities are located on Turkey's Aegean
coast on the Cesme peninsula, about 80 km west of Izmir the capital of the Izmir Province and
Turkey's third largest city. Cesme and Alacati, which until the 1960's were small fishing and
agricultural communities, have become the main tourism centers of the Cesme peninsula, and have
currently a total permanent resident population of about 20,000 (13,000 in Cesme and 7,000 in



- 7 -
Alacati). In the Summer period from May to October, about 80,000 temporary residents and
tourists visit the area. This creates a need to design the infrastructure services in the area for a
population size which is almost five times the size of the resident population. The resident
population is projected to increase to about 50,000 by the year 2010 while the tourist and
temporary summer population is expected to reach about 120,000, with a total peak population of
170,000 during the summer period. In the longer term, growth is expected to decrease rapidly
with the area's population capacity peaking at about 220,000 due to restrictions on land
development because of environmental considerations.
1.22  Water and Sewerage Services. Rapid growth in the Aegean coastal region in Turkey in
the last two decades has transformed the Cesme-Alacati area from small fishing and agricultural
communities into an important tourism center. This growth has resulted in rapidly increasing
demand for infrastructure and municipal services, which has exceeded the limited financial and
technical capacity of the municipalities to respond.
1.23  For many years, the only sources of water in the Cesme-Alacati area were private wells
drilled by households, hotels, pensions and other businesses. The first municipal water supply
system entered into operation less than twenty years ago (1979), but it had a short life, as the size
of the water mains was insufficient to satisfy the growing water demand and had to be replaced by
larger mains. The replacement of the mains and the expansion of the water system were started in
1989 by Iller Bank and, as of today, two thirds of the total resident and summer population is
connected to the municipal water supply system (approximately 70% in Cesme, and 50% in
Alacati). The remaining population (35,000 people) continues to obtain water from private wells.
1.24  The water supply services are unsatisfactory.  First, there are frequent service
interruptions and low pressures especially during the summer period when demand is at its peak.
Second, water quality frequently does not meet Turkish standards because of high salinity and
excessively high or low concentrations of chlorine with the resulting high odor and bad flavor, and
the risk of bacteriological contamination. Third, system's operation and maintenance practices
are unsatisfactory: the production from the main water source (Ildir wells) drops during periods of
peak demand because the abstraction wells are not properly located; control devices for the
pumping stations and reservoirs are lacking; there are no pressure zones; water chlorination
procedures are inadequate; and the buildings for the pumping stations and their electrical and
control panels are deteriorated. And, fourth, although most water connections are metered,
physical and commercial water losses are high at around 68% of the production.
1.25  About 4% of the population is currently connected to the municipal sewerage system.
Wastewater generated by about 80% of the population is discharged in septic tanks, and the
remaining population have private sewage treatment plants. This situation is no longer sustainable
as poorly constructed septic tanks and poorly operated private sewage treatment plants (43 in
total) are infiltrating the groundwater and posing health risks to the population, particularly the
users of private water wells.
1.26  The first municipal waterborne sewerage systems, covering limited areas, were installed by
the Cesme and Alacati municipalities and Iller Bank in the early 1950's, and relatively minor
extensions were made in the 1970's. Later, in 1987, Iller Bank developed plans for further



- 8 -
expansion of the sewerage system so as to meet increased demand for services resulting from the
rapid growth of summer population. The contract for the construction of the new sewerage
system was tendered in 1988 and it is expected to be completed in 1998. This contract includes:
main collectors, civil works for pumping stations, two sewers to the treatment plants sites and
two sea outfalls (one of the outfalls has been already constructed and the construction of the
second one has been postponed until there is sufficient effluent). The contract, however, does not
include essential elements to make the sewerage system operational. The treatment plant has not
yet been constructed, the mechanical and electrical equipment for the pumping stations do not
exist, and most of the secondary sewerage networks do not exist.
1.27 Plans for Further Developing Water and Sewerage Services. The plans of the Cesme and
Alacati authorities to further develop the water and sewerage services between 1998 and 2003 are
well conceived and should result in substantial improvements in both the coverage and the quality
of the services. The plans include:
*  improving management and operations of the water and sewerage services;
*  improving the operational conditions of the current groundwater sources;
*  upgrading and expanding the water distribution network;
*  completing ongoing sewerage works, and adding the elements to make it operational
(preliminary sewage treatment plant and mechanical and electrical equipment for the
pumping stations);
*  expanding the sewerage network and rehabilitating its older sections; and
*  monitoring the water quality near the sea outfall already constructed.
1.28 The above plan has a total cost of about US$26.0 million and would be carried out with
the help of Iller Bank and the proposed Bank-financed project. Iller Bank will invest about US$2
million in the completion of ongoing sewerage works and water distribution networks. The
physical investment in the proposed Bank-financed project (US$24.0 million) would focus on:
* providing equipment and materials for improving the operation of the water and
sewerage systems;
*  completing the missing major elements of the sewerage system (preliminary treatment
plant, and mechanical and electrical equipment for the pumping stations); and
*  constructing secondary sewerage networks.
1.29  On the institutional side the plan includes the establishment of a special entity, the Cesme-
Alacati Union (CALBIR), with responsibility for providing water, sewerage and solid waste
management services. The CALBIR, established by Decree 97/9933 of September 8, 1997 would
have a small staff with responsibility for the implementation of the Bank-financed Project and for



- 9 -
overseeing the implementation of the investments to be carried out by Iller Bank. The CALBIR
will hire a private firm to provide the water and sewerage services (para 2.19). The creation of
the CALBIR, the introduction of the private operator, and the technical assistance provided to the
CALBIR will help implement the water and wastewater service improvement plans in the Cesme-
Alacati area.



- 10-
H. THE PROJECT
A. Background
2.1   The Project was prepared by Cesme and Alacati municipalities and the MOT with
assistance from consultants financed through a Japanese Grant (TF026610-TU) for the
preparation of projects along the Turkish Aegean and Western Mediterranean coasts. Consultants
financed through the Dutch Trust Fund assisted in the environmental analysis of the Project. The
Project was discussed on several occasions in public meetings, with participation of the municipal
councils, the general public, business leaders, academics, civil servants, and NGOs.
B. Project Development Objective and Components
2.2   This project along with other Bank's lending and non-lending services to Turkey will: i)
bring about institutional development in the Union of municipalities; ii) increase efficiency of
delivering infrastructure services through the introduction of a private operation; and iii) improve
water quality, sewerage service, and environmental conditions. The improved infrastructure
services will help to promote the tourism industry in the area. The Project's objectives are
consistent with the objectives of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy of August 6, 1997.
2.3   The key indicators of development outcome are shown in para. 22 of the Project
Implementation Guidelines (Annex 2).
2.4   The project development objectives are to be achieved through the following project
components:
(a)   Institutional Development (21% of base cost) consisting of strengthening the
CALBIR by:
(i)   setting up of the Union's technical and financial management systems,
including auditing, staff training and office equipment;
(ii)   hiring and monitoring the performance of a private operator for improved
water and sewerage services;
(iii) providing technical assistance for a high level of project supervision; and
(iv)  providing technical assistance on environmental issues, including the
protection of the sea water quality.



(b)   Improving the Operational Condition of the Water Supply System (15% of base
cost) consisting of:
(i)  hydrogeological investigation to increase water production of the wells in
the Ildir area; district metering to reduce commercial loss; and chlorination
for safer water quality;
(ii)  relocation of wells in the Ildir area and rehabilitation of the pumping
stations, to improve their operational conditions;
(iii)  construction of a water barrier (about 500m long) to protect the Ildir aquifer
from sea water intrusion;
(iv)  provision of operational equipment to improve water and wastewater
services; and
(v)  provision for urgent repairs and upgrading of the water supply system to
reduce losses (Urgent Repairs and Upgrading).
(c)   Completion of Sewerage System (64% of base cost)
(i)   development and improvement of the sewerage network, consisting of the
upgrading and expansion of the sewerage network through the
construction of the main sewer pipes from the Cesme area to Ilica, and the
construction of the sewerage networks including house-discharges in the
areas of: Cesme, Alacati, and Ilica;
(ii)   acquisition and installation of mechanical and electrical equipment, and
pipes for pumping stations (TM2, TM6, TM17, and TM18); and
(iii)  construction of a pre-treatment plant for the combined waste water flow
from Cesme and Alacati to discharge into the sea through the already
constructed sea outfall in Alacati.
C. Project Cost
2.5   The proposed project is estimated to cost about US$24.0 million equivalent (including
taxes and duties and excluding interest during construction) with a foreign component of about
US$12.7 million equivalent or about 53% of total project cost. Cost estimates were prepared by
the MOT with the help of consultants, on the basis of quantity estimates from preliminary design
studies, and using unit prices from similar projects under implementation in Turkey. All project
costs have been estimated in Turkish Lira on the basis of November 1997 prices and converted
into US Dollar prices at the November 1997 exchange rate of TL190,000 per US$1. Physical
contingencies (10%) have been added for unforeseen increases in quantities or supply costs. Price
contingencies have been applied to base costs in accordance with the Bank's rates for expected



- 12 -
international price escalation as per O.P. 6.50 of November 1997, with the assumption that the
exchange rate will adjust to the evolution of domestic prices and external inflation.
2.6     Summary cost estimates are shown in Table 1 below. A detailed description of project
components and corresponding costs is shown in Annex 3.
Table : Proect Cst~ Estimaties,
Compionents        Local      Foreign      Total         Lal    : Foreign    Total      %
TL     ~~TL-        TLW         US        XSS   ~USS          Foreg
Capacity Building     190,000     475,000     665,000       1.0        2.5       3.5        70
Water Supply          247,000     247,000     494,000       1.3        1.3       2.6        50
Sewerage              836,000    1,235,000    2,071,000     4.4        6.5       10.9       60
Base Cost         1,273,000    1,957,000    3,230,000    6.7        10.3      17.0       61
Physical Contingent.    133,000   190,000     323,000       0.7        1.0       .17        59
Price Contingencies   171,000     247,000     418,000       0.9        1.3       2.2        59
Total Project Cost  1,577,000   2,394,000    3,971,000    8.3       12.6       20.9       60
Taxes & Duties        589,000        0.0      589,000       3.1        0.0       3.1        0
Total Cost        2,166,000   2,394,000    4,560,000     11.4      12.6       24.0       53
D. Financing Plan
2.7    The proposed Bank loan of US$13.1 million equivalent would finance about 54%  of the
total project cost which is slightly higher than the foreign exchange component (53%). The Bank
loan will be a LIBOR-based single currency loan in US Dollars, as shown in the financing plan
(Annex 3). Counterpart funding would be provided for about US$5.5 million equivalent as a
grant from MOT, and US$5.4 million equivalent by the CALBIR from its own resources
(operating  surpluses).   The proposed  financing  sources and their respective  amounts are
summarized in Table 2 below.



- 13 -
Table 2: Project Financing Plan
L_______________   (US$ M     llion Equivalent)    _
Source          Local         Foreign       Total     % Total
IBRD                  0.4           12.7         13.1        54
Union                 5.5           0.0          5.5         23
MOT                   5.4           0.0          5.4         23
TOTAL                11.3           12.7         24.0        100
2.8   Water investments, with a base cost amounting to US$2.6 million would be financed by
the Bank loan (85%) and a grant from the MOT amounting to U S$5.4 million (Annex 3). The
Bank loan would also finance 100% of the institutional capacity building component, with a base
cost amounting to US$3.5 million. The financing of high priority water investments and
institution capacity building with MOT grants and 85-100% loan financing would allow the
CALBIR to promptly implement these project components, improve the quality of water services,
strengthen its financial performance, and provide resources to monitor the quality of the water
near the sea outfall. These improvements would, in turn, facilitate the implementation of the
overall project and would provide the basis for further development of the services after
completion of the Bank-financed project.
2.9   To ensure the timely availability of the required counterpart funds for the Project,
agreement was reached at negotiations (para. 5.1 (a)) that the CALBIR will open, before
December 31, 1998, a bank account with a deposit of US$100, 000 (approximately one quarter of
estimated CALBIR 's counterpart to the Project and taxes in 1999) to be used only to finance its
contribution to project investments. Before December 31, 1999 the CALBIR will increase the
deposit in the local counterpart account to US$300,000. This increase would allow the
financing of a higher level of investments starting in 2000. The Bank account should be
replenished at the end of each quarter to the level of the first day of the quarter.
E. Environmental Issues
2.10  For the purposes of O.D. 4.01 on Environmental Analysis, the Project has been classified
as Category B, which requires limited environmental review to determine potential negative
environmental impacts and mitigation measures as needed. Such a review has been carried out as
part of project preparation. The Project will not raise any resettlement issues since the work on
the water distribution is related to upgrading the existing infrastructure, provision of equipment,
and relocating wells and constructing a barrier wall in areas which do not have settlements. For
the wastewater system, most of the construction is already completed and for the proposed
network, local construction procedures will be followed. As part of the Environmental Analysis, a
detailed study was performed to ensure that the discharge of wastewater from the sea outfall did
not affect International Waterways as defined in Bank's O.D. 7.50. The study concluded that due
to the high dilution and low wastewater flow, the International Waterways would not be affected.
As a result, there is no need to notify riparian states. Contractors will seek appropriate permits to
ensure that the construction will not affect any archeological or historical site. Also during



- 14 -
construction, the contractors will be responsible for minimizing dust and noise and returning the
site to its original condition.
2.11  The Project brings about positive environmental and health effects through the reduction
of water losses in the distribution system, provision of better quality water, reliability of water
supply, and wastewater collection and pre-treatment. The creation of the CALBIR and the
services of the private sector will also ensure better institutional controls on environmental aspects
of the Project. During implementation, as per the Project Implementation Guidelines (Annex 2),
the CALBIR will be responsible to monitor residual chlorine and fecal coliform as indicators of
water quality.
2.12  The effect of the pre-treated wastewater discharged into the sea through an existing sea
outfall was extensively studied (Annex 4). Although, there will be some minimal local effect due
to the discharge of the effluent, the Project does not threaten the marine ecology. Extensive
modeling of the area has shown that relevant Turkish and EU standards regarding sea water
outfall and water quality will be met. The effect to the marine ecology in and around the outfall is
negligible due to the high level of dilution with magnitudes in order of 104 within a few kilometers
of the outfall. In addition, the pre-treated wastewater would be chlorinated, if necessary, to
reduce any bacteriological impacts. In the future, as the wastewater flow increases, options of
treating the wastewater through land infiltration or upgrading the wastewater treatment and
reusing the treated effluent will be considered.
2.13  It is important to monitor the quality of the seawater outfall and the outfall itself to ensure
that the marine species are not being affected. During negotiations, agreement was reached on
the monitoring program, as per the Project Implementation Guidelines (Annex 2). The CALBIR
will be responsible for the monitoring which will include sampling the water for specific
parameters, determining the physical condition of the outfall, and taking appropriate corrective
actions, if required (para 5. 1 (b)).
F.    Project Implementation Schedule
2.14 According to the Project Implementation Guidelines, the proposed project would be
executed over a five-year period, starting in June 1998 and ending in June 2003.  The
implementation period could be accelerated if the Union implements financial policies which allow
it to generate funds in amounts exceeding the ones estimated at appraisal. The loan will close on
December 31, 2003, six months after project completion.
2.15  The implementation schedule is guided by the need to generate economic benefits and
financial revenue as quickly as possible. In this vein:
an experienced private firm will be hired to provide water and sewerage services on
behalf of the CALBIR;



- 15 -
* US$0.8 million from the Loan will be allocated for urgent repairs and upgrading of the
water and sewerage systems so as to allow the private operator to improve the quality
of the services in consultation with municipal authorities;
* investments in water production and district metering are programmed early on to
better satisfy water demand and provide data on which to base a leak detection
program by the private operator;
* the grout curtain will be constructed early on to reduce sharply the intrusion of sea
water to the aquifer from which the wells draw water so that the chemical quality of
the drinking water will improve. The hydrogeological investigations for the grant
curtain is already well underway and the barrier is expected to be in place by 1999 to
prevent sea water intrusion;
* the chlorination system will be rehabilitated early on to ensure residual chlorine in the
system and eliminate the risk of fecal contamination of drinking water;
- production wells will be relocated early on to improve and boost the quality and
quantity of the drinking water;
* pumps will be purchased over the total project implementation period and installed to
make the existing trunk wastewater system operational so that the wastewater from
the Alacati town center and Ilica could be pumped away by the time of project
completion;
. the effect of the wastewater discharge through the sea outfall will be monitored to
ensure that there are no negative environmental impacts due to the Project (Annex 4);
and
* septic tanks will be replaced by sanitary sewerage in the Cesme town center where the
risk for contamination of groundwater and epidemics is the greatest.
G. Institutional Arrangements
2.16 The Borrower and project implementation agency would be the CALBIR. At the
Borrower's request the loan would be made at the Bank's standard rates for a LIBOR-based single
currency loan in US Dollars. The term will be seventeen years with five years of grace. The
CALBIR would bear the foreign exchange risk. The MOT contributions would be made through
annual appropriations in accordance with Government budgetary procedures.
2.17  The CALBIR is responsible under its By-laws for the development, management and
operation of water supply, wastewater and solid waste services in Cesme and Alacati. The
CALBIR also has the authority to set tariffs for water and wastewater services. The CALBIR is
administered by a Council comprised of the mayors of Cesme and Alacati, and by representatives
of the Municipal Councils. One of the mayors is the president and chief executive officer of the



- 16-
CALBIR and the other is his/her deputy. The presidency rotates every year between the two
mayors. The president is assisted by two full-time employees: the Secretary General and the
Treasurer. The Secretary General and the Treasurer are expected to be appointed in June 1998
once the Council of Ministers approves the positions in March 1998 during the annual review of
requests for new positions in public entities. In the meantime the CALBIR will be run by the
President assisted by staff from the municipalities detached to the CALBIR.
2.18  In addition to the Secretary General, Treasurer, and support staff, the CALBIR has hired
two individual consultants to assist in the management of the engineering and financial aspects of
project implementation. The two consultants are financed by the Japanese grant (para. 2.1) until
the closing date of the Grant at the end of 1998. After this date, the consultants would be
financed out of the proceeds of the loan.
2.19  Private Operator for the Water Supply and Sewerage System.   The CALBIR  will
sign a management contract with a qualified water supply and sewerage operator to provide
services on its behalf under a performance-based remuneration. Expressions of interest from
private operators were sought through the publication of a notice in the Development Forum
(Issue of November 15, 1996) and Turkish media with satisfactory response from potential
bidders. To ensure that the CALBIR take timely action for the hiring of the private operator,
agreement was reached at negotiations (para. 5.1 (c)) that the CALBIR will select the private
operator in accordance with the following schedule:
Action                                  Date
*  Inviting firms to prequalify             July 31, 1998
*  Inviting prequalifed firms to submit bids  October 1, 1998
*  Selecting the private firm               February 1, 1999
D  Signing the contract with the private firm  March 31, 1999
2.20  The cost of the services of the private operator would be covered by the tariffs and other
operational revenues of the water and sewerage services. The private operator will be paid on the
basis of volume of water sold and the bill collection ratio. In addition, the Bank loan includes
US$1.0 million to cover fees to the private operator during the project implementation period.
This allocation is expected to enhance the incentives for private sector involvement in Cesme-
Alacati. It would also facilitate to Cesme-Alacati the financing of the private operator's start-up
costs, which are expected to be high relative to the revenue generation potential of the water and
sewerage system during the initial years of the contract. The CALBIR payments to the operator
will cover start-up costs, operating expenses, minor repairs, and profit margin. Investments in
system's upgrading and expansion will be financed by the CALBIR and carried out in consultation
and with the cooperation of the private firms providing the services.
2.21  Transitional Arrangements for Operating the Water Supply and Sewerage System.
The Cesme and Alacati municipalities formally turned over the water supply and sewerage system
to the CALBIR in February 1998, but the municipalities will continue operating the system under
contract until the private operator takes over in March 1999. The water and sewerage revenues



- 17 -
will be deposited by the municipalities in the CALBIR's bank account, and the CALBIR will pay
from this account the operating costs (such as personnel, energy and materials) incurred by the
municipalities in providing the services.
2.22 Selecting the Private Operator and Managing the Contract. The CALBIR would
seek assistance of consultants in the process of selecting and hiring the private operator and
managing the resulting contract during the project implementation period. The consultant to
assist the CALBIR in selecting and supervising the private operator is expected to be hired in
April 1998. This consultant will be financed by the ongoing Japanese Grant during the initial
months of the contract, and by the Bank loan starting in January 1999. This technical assistance
will ensure the hiring of a qualified private operator under suitable institutional arrangements.
Adequate supervision of the operator through institutional strengthening at CALBIR will be key
to meeting the Project objectives. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the CALBIR
employing, before loan effectiveness, the consultant which will help secure and supervise the
private operator as a condition of effectiveness (para 5.2).
2.23 Implementing the Capital Expenditures Program. The CALBIR will be responsible
for the implementation of the capital expenditures program under the Project. The CALBIR,
however, will coordinate closely with the private operator to ensure that the sequencing and
specific characteristics of the investments yield the highest possible return.
2.24 To ensure the sought cooperation, agreement was reached at negotiations (para. 5.1 (d))
that the CALBIR, after discussion and agreement with the private operator, would submit to the
Bank for its review, not later than October 31 of each calendar year, the investment plan for the
project for the next calendar year, together with a tentative investment plan until project
completion. The annual investment plan for the utilization of the US$0.8 million allocated to
investments in urgent repairs and upgrading of the water supply and sewerage system should be
clearly separated from other project components. To ensure that the CALBIR benefits from the
private operator experience in improving the services, agreement was reached at negotiations
that the utilization of the loan allocation for urgent repairs and upgrading will start only after
the contract with the private operator is executed (para. 5.1 (e)).
2.25 The CALBIR would also be responsible for organizing the mid-term review and for
preparing and submitting quarterly reports on project implementation performance and other
required documentation to the Bank and the Turkish authorities according to an agreed Reporting
Plan included in the Project Implementation Guidelines (Annex 2).  As part of Project
implementation, the CALBIR will consult with the private operator to develop a plan for the
protection of the aquifer which is currently being used. This is important since more water will be
drawn from the Ildir Springs creating a need to reduce the consumption from the aquifer currently
being used for efficient use of water resources in the area.



- 18 -
H. Procurement
2.26 All Bank-financed project elements would be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement (January 1995/revised January 1996, August 1996, and September
1997), including amendments as of the Loan signing date, and using World Bank Standard
Bidding Documents. The detailed procurement plan is included in the Project Implementation
Guidelines (Annex 2). Table 3 summarizes the project components, their estimated costs
including taxes and duties, and proposed methods of procurement. A Project launch workshop is
expected to be held before December 1998 to provide procurement training to the CALBIR.
Procurement information will be included in the periodic progress implementation reports to be
submitted by the CALBIR.
2.27 Works. An estimated US$13.0 million equivalent of water and sewerage contracts,
consisting of the supply and installation of equipment for pumping stations, and for rehabilitation
and extension of the networks would be procured through International Competitive Bidding
(ICB), National Competitive Bidding (NCB) and Small Works. ICB procedures will be followed
for contracts above US$3.5 million, whereas NCB procedures will be followed for contracts less
than US$3.5 million up to an aggregate value of US$ 4,000,000. For contract less than
$100,000, Bank's Small Works procedures will be followed which requires lumpsum fixed price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations from three qualified domestic contractors. The
Small Works process will be applicable for urgent repairs and upgrading.
2.28 Goods. An estimated US$1.0 million equivalent of goods and equipment will be procured
in the Project. These goods would comprise small diameter water and sewer pipes, water meters,
chlorination equipment, construction materials, and office equipment. Goods for urgent repair
and maintenance are also included in this category. For contracts below US$400,000 (aggregate
not to exceed US$ 500,000) and US$100,000 (aggregate not to exceed US$ 500,000),
International Shopping and National Shopping procedures will be followed, respectively.
2.29  Consultant Services. Consultant contracts worth US$4.3 million equivalent (see Annex
2, Attachment 3) would be executed under the project for implementation support, construction
and private operator supervision, fixed fees for the private operator, and auditing. Procedures
followed would be in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency (January 1997/revised September 1997)
including amendments as of the Loan signing date.
2.30  Individual consultants for contracts less than $200,000 (Contract Cl) will be selected
based on Section V of the Bank's Consultant Guidelines. A Quality and Cost Based Selection
(QCBS) process will be followed for the consultants performing construction supervision
(Contract C2). For auditing requirements under the Project, for contracts less than US$ 200,000,
consultants will be selected through a Least Cost Process (Contract C4). The contract for the
private operator (Contract C5), the consultant for supervision of the private operator (Contract
C3) and for monitoring the sea outfall (Contract C7) will be selected through a QCBS process. It
is likely that the same consultant assisting the CALBIR in securing the private operator will be
employed to supervise the private operator during project implementation.



- 19 -
Table3:  Iroposed4r        n Ar-a-ge-e:-
$S millD   eqiae) I    a::         
_Pret l t                            Procurement Method         NF        Toa
._ - _ - - _ _ _ _ - : _ . _ - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - _ : - - _ _ _ . _ .  I C :   : N CJ   -   -  er    b)  C st.
1.  Works
Water Supply d)                         -        0.33       0.66      1.10      2.09
(0.28)    (0.56)    (0.0)     (0.84)
Sewerage                               7.96      4.06        -       4.00      16.02
_    (4.64)    (2.37)              (0.0)     (7.01)
2.  Goods
Water Supply d)                                             0.95                0.95
(0.81)             (0.81)
Office Equipment                                            0.20                0.20
(0.17)              (0.17)
3.  Consultancies
Consultant Services e)                                      4.27     0.47       4.74
(4.27)              (4.27)
TOTAL                           7.96       4.39      6.08      5.57     24.00
(4.64)    (2.65)    (5.81)     (0.0)    (13.10)
NOTE: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank Loan
a)  Cost estimates include taxes & duties
b)  Includes National Shopping, International Shopping and Consultancy
d)  Includes urgent repairs and upgrading (US$460,000).
e)  Includes fixed fees for private operator.
2.31   Bank's Prior Review. Bank's prior review of procurement documents would be required
for: a) all ICB contracts; b) first NCB contract and all NCB contracts greater than US$1.0
million; c) first Small Works; and d) consultant contracts with firms and individual consultant
contracts exceeding US$50,000. All other contracts for lesser amount would be subject to ex-
post review.
L. Loan Disbursements
2.32   The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed, net of taxes and duties, against
the categories shown below (Table 4). Loan withdrawal applications would be prepared and fully
documented by the CALBIR. Withdrawals on the loan can be made on the basis of statement of
expenditures for: a) goods and works not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent; b) contracts with
consulting firms not exceeding US$100,000  equivalent;  and c) contracts with individual
consultants not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent. Documentation supporting these expenditures
would be retained by CALBIR during the whole project implementation period and it would be
audited by external auditors (para. 2.35).



- 20 -
..........          Aloctin fB Bk Loan Proceeds;
~~~~~~~~~.     . .   . . .   . 0     . . .   .  E
Category                  Amount -  t         f :hendint
..     ...........  ..     ..   .........(.S..   .to ..e : Financed
Civil Works - Water Supply                  0.4    85% of expenditures
Civil Works - Sewerage                      7.3    61% of expenditures
Civil Works - Urgent Repairs and Upgrading  0.4    85% of expenditures
Goods - Water Supply                        0.6    100% of foreign or ex-factory costs
and 85% of other local
expenditures
Goods - Urgent Repairs and Upgrading        0.4    100% of foreign or ex-factory costs
and 85% of other local
: expenditures
Consulting Services                         4.0    100% of expenditures
TOTAL                                   13.1
2.33 A Special Account would be opened by CALBIR in a commercial bank acceptable to the
Bank, or in the Central Bank, with an authorized allocation of US$1.0 million (approximately four
months of estimated disbursements at the peak period). The authorized allocation will be limited
to an amount equivalent to US$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the loan
plus the total of outstanding commitments equals or exceeds US$2,000,000 equivalent.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted every three months, or
when two third of the amount deposited has been withdrawn, which ever occurs first. AU
applications for direct payment or special commitments must be for an amount not less than 20%
of the authorized allocation to the Special Account. Monthly bank statements of the Special
Account would be attached to all replenishment applications.
2.34   Estimated disbursements by Bank fiscal year are summarized in Table 5 below.  The
schedule of Quarterly Disbursements is shown in Annex 5.
Table:5
EstimatedULoan Disbursement.; 
WorldBanik FiscalYear       FY99      Y00  FY01  FY02M   .FY03
Annual                       1.0      2.4      3.6     3.5      2.6
Cumulative                   1.0      3.4      7.0     10.5    13.1
J. Accounts, Audit and Reporting
2.35   The Project Implementation Guidelines (para. 20) includes details of the accounting
system, financial controls and reports to be implemented by the CALBIR with the help of a



- 21 -
financial consultant (para. 2.18) hired under the Project. The CALBIR's accounts, including the
project account and the Special Account, will be audited annually by private independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. The audit reports will contain a separate opinion on the use of Statement
of Expenditures, when applicable. Audit reports in English will be forwarded to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
2.36  The CALBIR will provide quarterly and yearly reports to the Bank on the progress of
project implementation. These reports should include a summary of implementation status, the
financial statements of the CALBIR and the project, including the Special Account, and
performance indicators data. Included in these reports will also be procurement information such
as: (a) contract award information; (b) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the
total project cost; (c) revised implementation schedule; and (d) compliance with aggregate limits
on specified methods of procurement. The Project Implementation Guidelines includes the chart
of accounts to be used and models of the reports to be submitted to the Bank.
2.37 The CALBIR will prepare an Implementation Completion Report and submit it to the
Bank within six months after the closing date of the loan.
K. Supervision and Annual/Mid-term Review
2.38  About 20 staff/weeks per year of staff input will be required over the life of the project.
Supervision staff should include a water sector specialist, a financial analyst and private sector
development specialist. Project implementation reviews, involving the Bank, the CALBIR and the
private operator will be held before October 31 of each year to assess progress and problems in
pursuing project objectives and to consider any corrective actions.  During negotiations,
agreement was reached that the CALBIR will submit to the Bank before October 31 of each year
the following: a) the tariff policy to be implemented in the followingyear; b) plans and schedule
for project completion; and c) corrective actions necessary to secure timely completion of the
project (para 5.1I()). During negotiations an agreement was reached on conducting a Mid-term
Review of project implementation to be held in mid-2000 to examine implementation progress,
all major problems encountered, the continued relevance of the project as appraised and any
changes to be proposed to the CALBIR, Government and the Bank (para. 5.]  ).



- 22 -
HI. FINANCE
A. Financial Management and Performance
3.1   Financial Management. As up to now the water and sewerage services have been
directly provided by Cesme and Alacati municipalities, the financial management of the services
has been part of the overall municipal financial management. The revenues from the provision of
the services are deposited in the general municipal cash and bank accounts. The expenditures are
financed from these accounts. The revenues and expenses are controlled through the municipal
budgetary system on cash rather than accrual basis. The budgetary system includes specific
accounts for water and sewerage related revenues and expenditures.
3.2   Financial Performance. In line with prevailing financing practices in small and medium
sized municipalities in Turkey, the water and sewerage services in Cesme-Alacati have generated
revenues sufficient to cover their cash expenditures and also surpluses to help support the overall
municipal budget. The services are not expected to generate funds for investments as these are
traditionally financed through grants and concessional loans from DSI and Iller Bank. Presently,
the tariff' level for the CALBIR is around US$0.74/m3 and the officials of the CALBIR are
planning to revise the tariffs to levels around US$1.00/m3 by the middle of 1998. This will help to
keep up with inflation and generate a surplus required for financing initial operating costs related
to paying the private operator. The cash surpluses in recent years for the combined Cesme-
Alacati system has been as follows: 1995 - US$244,000; 1996 - US$32,000; and 1997-
US$296,000 (Annex 6). In the case of Cesme, this budgetary support from the water and
sewerage services was equivalent to 7% of municipal revenues in 1995, and 12% in 1997. The
support in 1996 was less significant (less than 1%). In Alacati, the budgetary support was
equivalent to 5% in 1995, 2% in 1996; and 1% in 1997.
3.3   It should be noted, however, that the operational surpluses of the Cesme-Alacati water
supply and sewerage services are due to a large extent to the practice of maintaining the current
expenditures at a minimal technical level to keep operations ongoing and limiting maintenance to
indispensable interventions.  This policy has been one of the factors contributing to the
unsatisfactory quality of the services. Due to the deficiencies in the operation and maintenance of
the water and sewerage system as well as inadequate commercial practices, the municipalities are
not fully benefiting from the revenue generating potential of the services. In fact, only about 32%
of the water produced is billed as a result of physical losses, water provided free of charge, and
inadequate consumption metering (see para 1.24).
l Tariffs refer to average equivalent water tariff, calculated on the basis of all CALBIR's operational revenues
divided by the volume of water sold.



- 23 -
B. Projected Financial Performance
3.4   In the proposed Project, there will be a fundamental change in the financial policies
regarding the provision of services by the CALBIR. For the first time, the CALBIR will take on a
loan (the proposed Bank loan) and also will make a contribution towards investments. To
support this change in policy, the CALBIR plans to take specific measures regarding improving
operations and increasing tariffs.
3.5   Operations. The private operator is expected to increase the percentage of water billed
against production, reduce physical losses, and improve commercial practices - mainly through
improved bill collection. Improvements in the operational efficiency are shown in Annex 7. It is
planned that by the year 2005, the losses, as a percentage of production, will be reduced from the
current level of 68% to about 44%. The annual volume of water billed is expected to increase
from the current level of 1.2 million m3 to about 3.2 million in3. This realistic increase can be
attributed to increased production and connections and a reduction in losses. The per capita
consumption of water was assumed to be constant, which is most likely a conservative estimate
given that better service and water quality in the future would encourage increased consumption,
in spite of higher tariffs (para 4.9). The number of water connections is expected to increase from
around 15,000 in 1997 to around 24,000 in 2003. During the same period, the wastewater
connections are expected to increase from less than 1,000 to around 4,000. If the per capita
consumption increases along with the projected increase in connections, funds available to the
CALBIR will be more than the projected values.
3.6   Tariffs To assure financial viability of the Project, the average yearly tariff levels should
reach around US$1.2/m3 in 1999 and US$1.50/m3 in 2000. Thereafter, the tariff should peak
around US$1.60/m3 by the year 2001 in current prices (Annex 8). The planned tariff levels are
realistic and affordable (para 4.11), but would require political willingness for the rates to be in
effect. This willingness has been expressed by the Cesme and Alacati officials. During
negotiations agreement was reached on the CALBIR implementing monthly tariff adjustments to
ensure that tariffs are sufficient to cover: (a) payments to the private operator; (b) the required
contribution to project investments; (c) debt service payments; and (d) CALBIR operating costs
(para 5.1(g)). The Consumer Price Index or any other price index satisfactory to the Bank should
be used as a basis for the adjustment.
3.7   Financial Projections.  Through the above operational and financial measures, the
revenues of around US$0.9 million in 1997 are expected to increase gradually to US$1.3 million
in 1998; US$2.6 million in 2000; and US$4.4 million by the year 2003. The financial projections
are shown in Annex 8. The increase in revenues and operating expenses between 1998 and 2003
is around 3.7 and 1.4 times, respectively. The operating expenses do not rise as much since the
incremental cost of producing additional water is not as high and it is expected that the private
operator will seek efficient operations to minimize costs.
3.8   The projections show that there will be an increasing operational surplus needed by
CALBIR to service debts and finance their portion of the investments. The year end cash in hand
for CALBIR is expected to increase from the 1997 level of US$82,000 to about US$226,000 by



- 24 -
the year 2003, which is the last year of the project. The tariff levels and efficient improvements
envisaged under the Project should enable the CALBIR to continue carrying out investments in
system expansion and upgrading in addition to those under the Project. In fact, it is estimated that
the CALBIR would be able to contribute around US$4.2 million for investments other than the
Project between 2002 and 2005. The balance sheet shows that the current level of indebtedness of
CALBIR is low allowing them to take on loans from the Bank and Iller Bank, resulting in an
acceptable maximum debt to asset ratio of around 40% in 2002.
3.9   Monitoring: To monitor progress in improvement in operations the following parameters
will be used: i) tariffs; ii) number of water and wastewater connections; iii) volume of water
billed; iv) working ratio defined as operating expenses divided by revenues; and v) cost per cubic
meter of water billed. The monitoring goals are specified in the Project Implementation
Guidelines (Annex 2).



- 25 -
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
4.1   The project would generate economic benefits because:
(a)   more water can be consumed since the production capacity will be increased and
the quality improved;
(b)   the risk of water and wastewater-related diseases will drop since water will be
chlorinated, and rationing will cease from 1999 onwards; and
(c)   the environmental situation will improve since the present spills of raw septic
sludge in areas adjacent to Ilica and Alacati will be discontinued.
.4.2   The economic evaluation analyzes first whether project demand is satisfied at the least
economic cost. Second, an analysis is made whether discounted net economic benefits are greater
than zero. And third, a calculation is made of the tariff level that reflect the economic costs of
consumption.
4.3   Least Cost Analysis. The project components represent the least-cost solution since the
focus is to make the minimum complementary investments to pump wastewater through an
existing but unused trunk sewer, and to upgrade existing water supply facilities. At present there
is water rationing during the period of peak consumption. As a consequence, the water
distribution system is periodically empty during the period of peak consumption and runs the risk
of being contaminated by fecal seepage from the ubiquitous septic tanks. This health hazard
could at any one time trigger a water and sanitation-related epidemic. The consequences of such
an epidemic would likely be considerable in human suffering and economic losses.
4.4   The project is then designed to restore water supply and wastewater service to safe and
reliable standards through boosting water production in order to provide continuous service from
the summer of 1999 onwards, and to make operational the existing trunk sewer and submarine
outfall which have never been used. The investments are all small. For instance, the project will
simply make the sewerage system operational through installing the ancillary pumps and
preliminary treatment. The balance between water demand and supply will be restored through:
(i)   better commercial management, including tariffs that approach economic
efficiency;
(ii)   adding more wells to extract water from the Ildir aquifer; and
(iii)  reducing the amount of water that is lost through leakage.



- 26 -
4.5   Cost-Benefit Analysis. The cost-benefit analysis compares the level of economic benefits
and costs with and without the project. Benefits with the project are assumed to rise because the
present rationing will cease and because the expected improvements in water quality will stimulate
demand from the public water supply at the expense of demand from private wells, many of which
cannot guarantee a safe or sufficient water supply. The annual consumption from private wells is
expected to decline to 33,000 m3 by 2005 compared to the 1997 consumption level of 735,000 m3
(Annex 7).
4.6   Costs with the project are those project investments and the operations and maintenance
costs. Benefits without the project are assumed to decrease gradually from their present level
since system breakdowns are likely to become more frequent and since the deteriorating quality of
service will increase consumer resistance to paying the same tariff in constant prices.
4.7   The incremental benefits and costs are shown in Annex 9.  Costs and benefits are
expressed in constant prices. Prices for foreign exchange and unskilled labor have not been
adjusted since market prices are estimated to reflect economic prices well. Import duties and
domestic taxes have been excluded in the economic analysis. The economic rate-of-return is
calculated as 23% over the 1998-2020 period. The rate-of-return is high given the nature of the
project, which is to take maximum advantage of existing unused facilities through better
operations and maintenance, and to improve the quality of service through contracting with an
efficient private operator.
4.8   Economic Tariffs. The tariffs for water supply and wastewater should reflect the long-
run marginal cost (LRMC) of service to consumers. The LRMC is usually approximated by the
average incremental cost (AIC) i.e. the ratio between discounted incremental costs and the
discounted incremental water consumption.  A discount rate of 10%  was used for the
calculations. The AIC for the project can be calculated to about US$1.01 per cubic meter,
allocating costs to the annual incremental consumption (Annex 10). This average AIC fails,
however, to account for the substantial seasonal variations in demand. Due to the influx of
tourists and apartment owners, the consumption rate during the peak bimester, July-August, is
double the annual average. The principle to signaling costs through tariffs dictates that all capital
expansion costs be allocated to the peak bimester consumption. In addition, the average
operations and maintenance costs should be added. During the rest of the year off-peak
consumption should in this fashion be charged only the unit operations and maintenance costs.
The peak bimester cost has been computed as US$4.71 per cubic meter (US$4.56 for incremental
capacity cost and US$0.15 for incremental operation and maintenance cost). The marginal
incremental cost during the rest of the year would then be US$0.15 per cubic meter.
4.9   As in practice, such extreme variations between tariffs during the peak bimester and the
off-peak bimesters would likely meet with considerable opposition a second best solution should
be sought. In this context agreement was reached at negotiations that the CALBIR will
implement starting in 2000, peak July-August tariffs that are two times the tariffs, charged in
preceding June month (para. 5.1 (h)). The planned tariffs are shown below (Table 6).



- 27 -
___________Water Cnuponan.dTairiffs
Y.ear     Pota Voame      eak Bim-es-ter .T .S
blled    Consw0ptionP                   (118$/rn)
(,,O Wi&)       (10 iOO3
Yearly .    Peak Tariff,   Off-peak.
.___ ..._ .  .  - -    . .  -  : - -  .Average  July-August  red of year.
1998         1,321           220            1.00          1.00          1.00
1999         1,467           435            1.20          1.20          1.20
2000         1,759           525            1.50          2.31           1.16
2001         2,098           626             1.60         2.46          1.23
2002         2,482           745             1.60         2.46          1.23
2003         2,756           827             1.60         2.46          1.23
2004         3,021           911             1.60         2.46           1.23
2005         3,270           992            1.60          2.46           1.23
4.10   Peak and off-peak tariffs have also a positive distributional effect since they shift the
relative tariff burden away from the all-year-round population that consumes a higher share of the
water during off-peak bimesters and on to the higher-income peak bimester population that
accounts for the major share of the water consumed during the two-month peak.
4.11   Affordability of Tariff.  The affordability of  the recommended peak tariff can be
estimated from data on household income. Average per capita consumption has been estimated at
97 liters per day, and average household size at 4 persons. The affordability test has been made
for the year 2001 when the tariff will have reached the maximum level of an annual average of
US$1.60 per cubic meter. It has been assumed that the average household income levels are
similar to those in Antalya for which a 1992 household income survey exists.
4.12   In order to make the prices of 2001 comparable to the 1992 income data in the survey it
has been assumed that average household income will have grown by 2% per year and that dollar
inflation will average 3%. A rule-of-thumb is that the combined water supply and wastewater bill
should not be allowed to exceed 4% of the household income. The first quintile of the resident
population, representing the poorest group, is below this 4% rule of thumb (Annex 11). A
notable feature of the tariff is that it represents equivalent tariff (i.e. total water and wastewater
revenues divided by the volume of water sold). Thus, if a household is not connected to the
wastewater system, its water tariffs will be lower than what is shown in Table 6. Since the poorer
section of the Cesme-Alacati area are not connected to the wastewater system, the tariffs will be
lesser than the ones used to calculate affordability (Annex 11). This implies that in the year 2001
the first quintile will pay about 4.0% of their household income on water tariffs, making the
investments under the Project more affordable for the residents. To alleviate the financial burden
to the residents resulting from peak bimester tariffs, the CALBIR would provide the option of
billing the residents at a rate which will average the payment over the six bimester billing cycles of
the year.
4.13   In reality, it is likely that the water and wastewater bill's share of household income will be
lower than shown in Annex 11 for the lowest income quintile and higher for the higher income
quintiles. This follows from the fact that per capita water consumption increases with income. As



- 28 -
a result, the lowest income households may probably consume less than 97 liters per capita and
day. In contrast, the highest income quintile will likely consume more than 97 liters per capita and
day. The net result will be to make the combined water supply and wastewater bill more
affordable for the lowest income quintile.
4.14  Fiscal Impact. The project financing plan includes a US$5.5 million government grant
through the MOT (para. 2.7). This grant is part of the government's overall program to ensure
the sustainability of the economic benefits from tourism.  It also takes into account the
externalities related to the project health benefits. The government grant for the project is
partially offset by the taxes (US$3.1 million) to be paid by the CALBIR as a result of project
investments. Another important indirect and long term fiscal impact of the project is the shift
from investments carried out and financed by Iller Bank and DSI to investments directly financed
by the water and sewerage services internal cash generation.
4.15   The Project through the establishment of the CALBIR impacts also the municipal finances,
as the surpluses to be generated by the services will be reinvested in the same services rather than
going to the general cash of the municipalities (para 3.2). This change in the allocation of
resources will require the municipalities to make some downward adjustments in their
expenditures.  Although the adjustments are manageable, it is important to ensure that the
municipal authorities have the right incentives to make the necessary adjustments rather than to
borrow from the CALBIR. To this effect, agreement was reached at negotiations that the
CALBIR will not provide any loans to other entities, including the municipalities, or incur
additional long term borrowings without consultation with the Bank (para. 5. 1(i)).
4.16 The present value of quantified externalities discounted at 10% is US$2.2 million, which
correspond to import duties and domestic.taxes. This is the only difference between the net
economic and financial benefits as: (i) prices for foreign exchange and unskilled labor have not
been adjusted (para. 4.7); and (ii) other project externalities such as health benefits have not been
quantified.
B. Project Risks
4.17  There are four types of project risks, all of which will influence the project's economic
return. The four risks are institutional, technical, financial, and market.
4.18  Institutional Risks. The institutional risks refer to the likelihood that no private
operator will be attracted to bid for the management contract or that a private operator will
abandon the contract. Either situation will present a serious dilemma since at present the Cesme
and Alacati systems are poorly managed and the CALBIR has no ready institutional alternative to
an aborted private operator contract. However, the risk that there will be no private operator
bidding is judged to be small, given that potential bidders have already expressed interest in using
the Cesme/Alacati management contract as a low-risk option of gaining a foothold in the
potentially large Turkish water supply and wastewater market. In addition, the Project will cover
the fixed and start-up costs of the operator through the Bank loan, creating an incentive for
private sector participation (para. 2.20).



- 29 -
4.19 The risk of the CALBIR suffering the negative consequences from a management
contractor abandoning a contract should be mitigated by requiring the management contractor to
keep careful technical, operating and commercial data bases on the Cesme and Alacati systems
and share data continuously with the CALBIR or its designated representatives. In this way, the
CALBIR will reduce the risk that it will be at a competitive disadvantage in negotiations with a
management contractor that might use an information asymmetry in renegotiating a contract in his
own favor. Similarly, the CALBIR would be in a better position to rebid competitively a
management contract or to bid competitively a concession in case it has an up-to-date system
statistics.
4.20  The institutional risk of putting the inexperienced CALBIR at a disadvantage of dealing
with an experienced private operator should also be mitigated by hiring consultants to assist the
CALBIR in the dealings with the Private Operator.
4.21   Technical Risks. The technical risks center around the possibility that water quality,
water production and water consumption will not increase as projected. The risk that water
quality will not improve as projected depends on how fast the salt water intrusion into the Ildir
aquifer can be reduced. This hinges on the effectiveness of the project grout curtain in sealing off
the flow from the sea into the aquifer. The decision to install a grout curtain was taken after
extensive hydrogeological studies by DSI. In order to mitigate this risk, the grout curtain is
programmed early in the project period, in 1998. The works should be finished well before the
1999 peak bimester which is when production from additional wells should be increased. In case
improvements in water quality lag expectations the possibility should be considered to use the
waters in the existing Alacati surface reservoir and mix them with the Ildir groundwater in order
to reduce salinity. However, using the Alacati reservoir is only the second-best solution since it
would require the completion and operation of a potable water treatment plant currently under
construction. This would take longer than the investments under the Project.
4.22  A second type of technical risk is the possible failure of the private operator to improve
service to a point where consumers will switch from using their private wells to using the public
water supply. This risk is mitigated through the process of selecting a highly qualified and reliable
operator, by establishing adequate performance criteria under the contract, and ensuring adequate
monitoring of the contractor's performance. Further, system losses will be reduced through
investments for urgent repairs and upgrading envisaged under the Project (para. 2.4).
4.23   Market Risks. The market risk centers around the possibility that consumers will prefer
to use private wells over the CALBIR system because of the cost of the services. For new
customers, this is not a major risk as the cost of services is similar, a net present value of around $
1,100, under the two alternatives2 (Annex 12). Moreover, the high investment costs and the
burden of installation and maintenance of the wells, will make connection to the CALBIR system
more attractive. A total of 11, 000 new users are expected to join the CALBIR system between
1998 and 2005. For the 15,000 existing users, the CALBIR system will be more expensive (net
2The cost for wells assumes an average investment cost of around $ 900 for wells 25 to 50 meters deep and an
annual operating cost of US$50 per household. An economic life of 15 years for a well and a 10% discount
factor has been assumed for the calculations.



- 30 -
present value of around US$ 842 for wells compared to US$ 1,144 for the CALBIR system) and
as a result there could be reluctance to give up the use of private wells (Annex 12). This risk will
have to be mitigated by DSI, the Ministry of Health, and the municipalities. On grounds of
efficient use of water resources, DSI has the authority to close illegal wells, which are prevalent in
the region. The Ministry of Health and the municipalities can also close down the wells on public
health grounds. To ensure that necessary steps are taken by the relevant agencies, during
negotiations an agreement was reached on the CALBIR preparing by November 30, 1998 a plan
to phase-out the use of private wells (para 5. 1(j)).
4.24  Sensitivity Tests of Technical Risks on the Economic Rate-of-Return. The technical
risks, if they materialize, will reduce the level of water consumption. In order to test for the
sensitivity of the rate-of-return calculation to this scenario, water consumption with the project
has been capped at 4.5 million cubic meters per year from the year 2001 and onwards implying
consumer resistance to consuming poor-quality water or inability to consume more water because
of production and distribution problems. The effect of this capping would be to reduce the
economic-rate-of-return from 23% in the base scenario to 15%.
4.25 Financial Risks. The financial risks comprise the failure of generating a sufficient level of
internal cash generation to enable the CALBIR to finance its share of investments, and the
possible reluctance of consumers to paying the higher tariffs forecast under the project. These
two risks are interrelated since the level of internal cash generation depends directly on the
success of increasing tariffs. The risk would materialize if consumers perceived water quality to
be no better with the project. This risk should be mitigated through a public information
campaign where the expected benefits of the safer and more plentiful future water supply and
sewerage system are explained to all consumers. Such a campaign is planned by the mayors of
Cesme and Alacati to coincide with the start-up of the project. In addition there is a financial risk
due to cost overruns. This risk, however, is not a major one as the cost estimates include
adequate provisions for unforeseen events. In addition, there is no risk of a lumpy investment not
being completed as all project investments are small and, thus, there is enough flexibility in the
project design to delay some small investments if necessary without compromising the
achievement of the project objectives. Also, the CALBIR should be in a position to finance any
cost overruns with the cash surpluses expected for the year 2002 and thereafter (para. 3.8).
4.26  The financial risk of lagging water sales should also be mitigated by having the Ministry of
Tourism and the Bank loan finance 100% of the early works that aim at boosting water
production and improving water quality. These works are critical to the success of ending
rationing during the peak bimester July-August in 2000. For the same reason the peak bimester
tariff is recommended to be in effect for the peak bimester in 2000 since the sharply higher tariff
should help reduce wasteful consumption and bring about balance between supply and demand.
The reasons for implementing a peak tariff should also be carefully explained in the public
information campaign. The better quality and service of the public water supply are also expected
to enable higher tariffs to be charged. If a household is connected to the sewerage system,
CALBIR has the authority to charge for wastewater even if a private well is being used as a water
source. This will also facilitate the charge of higher tariffs



-31 -
4.27  In order to test for the sensitivity of the rate-of-return calculation to the financial risks,
tariffs under this scenario have been capped at US$1.20 per cubic meter from the year 1999
onwards and throughout the project period. Under these conditions the project's economic rate-
of-return would drop from 23% in the base scenario to 14%. More seriously, such reduced tariffs
would severely reduce the project's internal cash generation and make the assumed financing plan
unfeasible.



- 32 -
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1   During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a) the CALBIR will open a bank account to deposit local counterpart funding to the
project (para. 2.9);
(b) the CALBIR will monitor water quality near the sea outfall which will include
sampling the water for specific parameters, determining the physical condition of the
outfall, and taking appropriate corrective actions, if required as specified in the
Project Implementation Guidelines (para 2.13);
(c) the CALBIR will hire the private operator of the water and sewerage system,
according to the proposed schedule (para. 2.19);
(d) the CALBIR will implement the investment plan for each calendar year after
discussion and agreement with the private operator (para. 2.24);
(e) the CALBIR will utilize the loan allocation for urgent repairs and upgrading only
after the contract with the private operator is executed (para. 2.24);
(f) the CALBIR will furnish to the Bank before October 31 of each year a report on the
following: a) the tariff policy to be implemented in the following year; b) plans and
schedule for project completion; and c) corrective actions necessary to secure timely
completion of the project (para 2.38). The CALBIR will conduct a Mid-term Review
of project implementation in mid-2000 to examine implementation progress, all major
problems encountered, the continued relevance of the project as appraised and any
changes to be proposed to the Government and the Bank (para. 2.38);
(g) the CALBIR will put into effect tariff adjustments to ensure that the tariffs and other
operating revenues are sufficient to cover (i) payments to the private operator; (ii)
the required contribution to investment; (iii) debt service payments; and (iv) CALBIR
operating costs (para 3.6);
(h) the CALBIR will implement peak-bimester tariffs in July and August that are two
times the preceding June tariffs (para. 4.9);
(i) the CALBIR will not extend loans to other entities, including the municipalities, not
incur additional long term borrowings without consultation with the Bank (para.
4.15); and
(j) the CALBIR will prepare a plan on the phase-out of use of private wells (para. 4.23).



- 33 -
5.2    As a condition of effectiveness, the CALBIR will employ the consultants who will help
secure the private operator (para. 2.22).
5.3    With the above assurances and conditions, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of
US$13.1 million to the CALBIR, repayable in seventeen years, including five years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate for LIBOR-based US Dollars Single Currency loans.
p:\turkey\infra\cesme-ws\3lenn\post-neg.doc
March 19, 1998






Annex 1
Bank's Experience in Turkey's Water and Wastewater Sector
844-TU                          37.0        1972    Expansion of water supply sytem for Istanbul
Istanbul Water Supply
2159-TU                         88.1        1982    Expansion of sewerage services, sewerage
Istanbul Sewerage                                    treatment and disposal for Istanbul
2537-TU                         9.2         1985    Preparation studies for the Cukurova Urban
Cukurova Region Urban                                Development Project
Engineering Project
2818-TU                         184.0       1987    Water  supply,  sewerage,  and  sewage
Izmir Water Supply and                               treatment facilities for Izmir
Sewerage Project
2819-TU                         120.0       1987    Urban  infrastructure,  improvement  of
Cukurova Urban Development                           policies,  institutional  and   financing
Project                                              arrangements for the Cukurova region
2888-TU                        218.0        1987    Additional water supply, sewerage and
Istanbul Water Supply and                            sewage treatment facilities for Istanbul
Sewerage Project
3151-TU                         173.0       1989    Sewerage and sewage treatment works for
Ankara Sewerage Project                              Ankara
3565-TU                         117.0       1993    Water supply, sewerage including sewage
Bursa Water and Sanitation                           treatment
(Water supply and sewerage
component)
38936-TU                        100.0       1995    Expansion of water supply, wastewater, and
Antalya Water Supply and                             drainage system, institutional strenghtening,
Sanitation Project                                   private operator participation, and changes in
municipal financial policies for Antalya
Total                      1,046.3        -






Annex 2
Page 1 of 9
Cesme - Alacati Water Supply and Sewerage Project
Project Implementation Guidelines
March 19, 1998



Annex 2
Page 2 of 9
Cesme - Alacati Water Supply and Sewerage Project
Project Implementation Guidelines
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Project
The Borrower and Implementing Agency
Implementation Arrangements
Project Implementation Schedule
Financial Management and Auditing
Monitoring and Evaluation
LIST OF ATTACHMENTS
1.   Making the CALBIR Operative
2.    Timetable for Hiring Consultants to the CALBIR Contract a Private
Operator
3.    Terms-of Reference for Consultants for the Contracting with an Operator
4.    Monitoring Sea Water Quality at Sea Outfall
5.    Procurement Plan
6.    Chart of Accounts and Reporting System



Annex 2
Page 3 of 9
Cesme -Alacati - Water Supply and Sewerage Project
Project Implementation Guidelines
The Project
Project Objectives: The Project has three objectives:
* To build an effective institution, the CALBI, that would contract with a Private
Operator for the operation and maintenance of the water supply and wastewater
system in Cesme and Alacati;
* to make the minimum investments that would enable the substantial underutilized
water and wastewater infrastructure of past years to yield an economic and financial
return; and
* to price water supply and wastewater services along principles of peak seasonal
pricing and at the same time alleviate the financial burden on low-income consumers.
2.    The Project would:
* increase annual water production from the present 3.9 million cubic meters to 5.6
million cubic meters by the year 2003;
- make the drinking water bacteriologically safe through chlorination;
* reduce the present high salinity of the drinking water through the construction of a
grout curtain and relocation of some production wells;
* rehabilitate sections of the existing water supply system;
* increase the coverage of sanitary sewerage from the present 4 percent to 15 percent
by the year 2003; and
*  and put the presently unused sanitary sewerage pumping scheme into operation
through the purchase and installation of pumps.
3.    The project cost is estimated at US$24.0 million, of which US$2.6 million for water
supply; US$10.9 million for wastewater, and the balance of US$10.5 million for design and
supervision consultancy, physical and price contingencies, and audit. The World Bank would
finance US$13.1 million, the Ministry of Tourism US$5.5 million, the CALBIR, US$5.4 million.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 9
4.    Economic Analysis: The economic benefits of the project are measured by the value of
the incremental revenue of the project. In addition, although they have not been quantified, the
project would reduce the risks of water and wastewater related epidemics that could endanger the
important summer tourism. The economic rate-of-return is estimated at 23 percent over the
1998-2020 period.
5.    Tariffs  The CALBIR will implement seasonal peak prices for the July-August peak
period when consumption is double the annual average monthly consumption. In this way, off-
peak tariffs could be reduced and in this way alleviate the financial burden of the lower-income,
all-year-round population. Tariffs proposed are equivalent tariffs which is the ratio of revenues
(from water and wastewater services, connection charge, contribution to investments, etc.) and
volume of water sold. For instance, the proposed peak bimester tariff for the year 2001 is
estimated at US$2.46 per cubic meter, the off-peak season tariff at US$1.23 per cubic meter,
which yields an annual average of US$1.60 per cubic meter. The peak bimester tariff is still below
the Average Incremental Cost of the peak bimester consumption which has been calculated to be
US$4.71 per cubic meter over the 1998-2020 period.
6.    Project Risks. The project risks are institutional, technical, and financial. The institutional
risks refer to the likelihood that no private operator will be attracted to bid for the management
contract or that a private operator will abandon the contract. The risk that there will be no
private operator bidding is judged to be small, given that potential bidders have already expressed
interest in using the Cesme/Alacati management contract as a low-risk option of gaining a
foothold in the potentially large Turkish water supply and wastewater market. In addition, the
Project will cover the fixed and start-up costs of the operator through the Bank loan, creating an
incentive for private sector participation. The risk of the CALBIR suffering the negative
consequences from a management contractor abandoning a contract should be mitigated by
requiring the management contractor to keep careful technical, operating and commercial data
bases on the water and wastewater systems and share data continuously with the CALBIR. The
institutional risk of putting the inexperienced CALBIR at a disadvantage of dealing with an
experienced private operator should also be mitigated by hiring consultants to assist the CALBIR
in supervising the private operator.
7.    The technical risks center around the possibility that water quality, water production and
water consumption will not increase as projected. In order to mitigate this risk, investments
aiming at increasing water quantity and quality are programmed early in the project
implementation period, in 1998 and 1999. Further, system losses will be reduced through the
fund for urgent repairs and maintenance. These measures to improve quality and increase quantity
of water will be re-evaluated when the private operator is in place in 1999. Additional measures
may be taken after consulting with the private operator, who will be responsible for improving the
service.
8.    The financial risks comprise the failure of the CALBIR generating a sufficient level of cash
to enable it to finance its share of investments, and the possible reluctance of consumers to paying
the higher tariffs forecast under the project. These two risks are interrelated since the level of
internal cash generation depends directly on the success of increasing tariffs. The risk would



Annex 2
Page 5 of 9
materialize if consumers perceived water quality to be no better with the project. This risk should
be mitigated through a public information campaign where the expected benefits of the safer and
more plentiful future water supply and of the sewerage system are explained to all consumers.
Such a campaign is planned by the mayors of Cesme and Alacati to coincide with the start-up of
the project. In addition there is a financial risk due to cost overruns. This risk, however, is not a
major one as the cost estimates include adequate provisions for unforeseen events. In addition,
there is no risk of a lumpy investment not being completed as all project investments are small
and, thus, there is enough flexibility in the project design to delay some small investments if
necessary without compromising the achievement of the project objectives. Also, the CALBIR
should be in a position to finance any cost overruns with the cash surpluses expected for the year
2002 and thereafter.
Borrower and Implementing Agency
9.    The borrower and project implementing agency would be the CALBIR established by
Decree of the Council of Ministers (No. 97/9933 of September 08, 1997).
10.   In addition to its regular staff (Secretary General, Treasurer and support staff), the
CALBIR has hired consultants to assist in the engineering and financial aspects of project
implementation.
Implementation Arrangements
11.   Under its By-laws, the CALBIR is responsible for the development, management and
operation of water supply, wastewater and solid waste services in Cesme and Alacati. The
CALBIR will contract with a private operator the provision of water supply and sewerage
services and will concentrate its administrative and technical resources on: (i) managing the
contract with the private operator and monitoring its performance; (ii) carrying out the necessary
investments through contractors; and (iii) supervising investment implementation through
consultants.
12.   Private Operator for the Water Supply and Sewerage System. The CALBIR will sign
a management contract with a qualified water supply and sewerage operator to provide services
on behalf of the CALBIR under a performance-based remuneration. The contract is expected to
be signed in March 1999.
13.   Selecting the Private Operator. The CALBIR would seek assistance of consultants in
the process of hiring the private operator. The timetable for hiring the consultants and the draft
terms of reference for the assignment are shown in Attachment 1. This consultant will be financed
by the ongoing Japanese grant until the closing date of December 31, 1998. After this date, the
consultants will be financed from the Bank loan.
14.   Managing the Contract with the Private Operator. The CALBIR will seek assistance
from consultants to manage the contract with the private operator and to supervise the
performance during the first two years of the contract. For this assistance, the CALBIR may



Annex 2
Page 6 of 9
decide to hire on a sole source basis, the consultant firm assisting in the selection of the private
operator. This consultant is expected to be financed through technical assistance under the
proposed Bank loan.
15.   Transitional Arrangements for Operating the System.  The  Cesme  and  Alacati
municipalities formally turned over the water supply and sewerage system to the CALBIR in
February 1998, but the municipalities will continue operating the system under contract until the
private operator takes over in March 1999. The water and sewerage revenues will be deposited
by the municipalities in the CALBIR's bank account, and the CALBIR will pay from this account
the costs (such as personnel, energy and materials) incurred by the municipalities in providing the
services.
16.   Implementing the Capital Expenditures Program. The CALBIR will be responsible
for the implementation of the capital expenditures program under the Project. In implementing
the program, the CALBIR will coordinate closely with the private operator to ensure that the
sequencing and specific characteristics of the investments yield the highest possible return.
Options to delegate to the private operator the execution of investments under the Project will be
considered during the bidding for the private operator.
17.  Investments in Urgent Repairs and Upgrading. The Project includes an allocation of
US$1.0 million for urgent repairs and upgrading of the water supply and sewerage system. This
amount is scheduled to be used in a three-year period subject to previous agreement among the
CALBIR, the private operator and the Bank on annual investment programs. The implementation
of this project component could be accelerated by agreement among the three parties.
Project Implementation Schedule
18.   The implementation schedule is guided by the need to generate economic benefits and
financial revenue as quickly as possible. In this vein, investments in water production and district
metering are programmed early to better satisfy water demand and provide data on which to base
the leak detection program; a grout curtain will be constructed to reduce sharply the intrusion of
sea water to the aquifer from which the wells draw water so that the chemical quality of the
drinking water will improve; the chlorination system will be rehabilitated to ensure residual
chlorine in the system and eliminate the risk of fecal contamination of drinking water; production
wells will be relocated early on to improve and boost the quality and quantity of the drinking
water in order to improve services; pumps will be purchased and installed to make the existing
trunk wastewater system operational so that the wastewater from the Alacati town center and
Ilica could be pumped away; the effect of the wastewater discharge through the sea outfall
monitored (Attachment 2); and septic tanks will be replaced by sanitary sewerage in the Cesme
town center where the risk for contamination of groundwater and epidemics is the greatest.
19.   During project implementation, the CALBIR will submit to the Bank before October 31 of
each year the following: a) the tariff policy to be implemented the next year; . b) plans and
schedule for project completion; and c) corrective actions necessary to secure timely completion
of the project. In addition, a mid-term review of the project implementation will be held in mid-



Annex 2
Page 7 of 9
2000 to examine implementation progress, address problems encountered, the continued
relevance of the project as appraised and address any changes. The procurement plan of the
project is shown in Attachment 3.
Financial Management, Accounting, and Auditing
20.   The financial consultant to be hired by the CALBIR will assist in the detailed design and
implementation of the accounting system for the CALBIR and for the Project, on the basis of the
attached draft chart of accounts and reporting system (Attachment 4). The Bank procedures
(OP/BP 10.02) on financial management will be followed to ensure that adequate financial
management systems are in place.
21.   The accounts of the CALBIR and of the Project and the Special Account will be audited
annually by private independent auditors. The CALBIR will hire by September 30, 1998 private
auditors acceptable to the Bank to audit its 1998-2000 accounts, and by June 30, 2000 auditors
for its 2001-2003 accounts.
Monitoring and Evaluation
22.   The parameters to be used to monitor and evaluate the project are summarized below. The
projections reflect the increased efficiency in the delivery of water and wastewater services. The
CALBIR will be responsible for the monitoring and reporting of information. Corrective actions,
as required, will be discussed with the Bank prior to its implementation. The development
objectives of the project will be monitored through indicators which are summarized below.
.Deve        O  e. -     -      V.-. l -a  of Ven . :at.-i
Institutional Strengthening  *  legal creation of the CALBIR  already created
*  CALBIR staffed and operational reports from the
CALBIR
Provision of Private Services   *  private operator in place  contract signed
*  private operator meeting contract  periodic reports from
performance standards         CALBIR
Improving efficiency in water *  performance Indicators (below)   Periodic reports
and wastewater services



Annex 2
Page 8 of 9
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
INDICATORS              Actual                     Projections
1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Water produced in Ildir wells      3.9     4.0     4.0     4.3      4.7     5.2     5.5
(million mi3)
Conductivity (micro mhos/cm)      TBD    TBD    TBD    TBD    TBD    TBD    TBD
Residual Chlorine' (mg/l)           0      0.5     1.0      1.0     1.0     1.0     1.0
Fecal Coliform2 (FC/100 ml)        poS    TBD       0       0       0        0       0
Fecal Coliform3 (FC/100 ml)        NA     TBD      200     200     200      200     200
Water Billed (million m3)          1.3     1.3     1.5      1.8     2.1     2.5     2.8
Loss (% of production)            68%     67%      63%     59%     56%     53%      50%
Number of water connections      15,625  16,158  17,159  18,921  20,781  22,757  24,080
Number of wastewater connections   862     891     923    2,388   2,470   2,556   3,969
Bill Collection (% of water billed)  85    85       85      87      90      92      95
Tariff Levels 4 ($/m3)
Peak bi-mester (July-August)    0.74    1.00    1.20    2.31    2.46    2.46    2.46
Off-peak                        0.74    1.00    1.20    1.16    1.23    1.23    1.23
Yearly average                  0.74    1.00    1.20    1.50    1.60    1.60    1.60
Operating Expense/unit of water   0.52    0.52    0.50    0.45    0.42    0.39    0.40
billed ($/m3)
Working Ratio5                    0.71    0.52    0.41    0.30    0.26    0.24    0.23
TBD - To be determined by
December 1999
1 In the distribution system and inside dwellings
2 In dwellings and public buildings
3 At beaches
4Equivalent tariff which is calculated by dividing total operating revenues (water and sewerage tariffs, connection
fees, contribution to investments, etc.) by water billed. The tariff is shown in current prices.
5 Operating Expenses divided by revenues. The low working ratio is due to the need to establish tariffs high
enough to cover contribution to investments and debt service.



Annex 2
Page 9 of 9
23.   As part of Project Implementation, the CALBIR in consultation with the private operator
will develop a plan by December 1999 to protect the existing aquifer to ensure efficient use of
water resources from the aquifer and Ilder Springs. The plan will be implemented starting in
2000.



Annex 2
Attachment I
Page lof 4
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
CESME-ALACATI WATER SUPPLY AND WASTEWATER PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services
For Preparing and Procuring a Contract
For the Provision of Water Supply and Wastewater Services
BACKGROUND
1.    Tourism is developing rapidly in the eastern Mediterranean basin. Turkey's tourism
development is relatively new compared to other Mediterranean countries, which provides an
opportunity to make precautions against potential negative environmental effects of tourism. The
Cesme-Alacati Water Supply and Sewerage Project is one of the priority projects on the Aegean
coastline. The Cesme-Alacati municipalities' resident population numbers about 20,000 (13,000
and 7,000, respectively). During the peak months of July/August the population rises to about
100,000 due to local and foreign tourists.
2.    The feasibility studies for the Cesme-Alacati Project were recently completed and the first
stage of the Project is expected to be carried out in the 1998-2002 period, and funded by the
CALBIR of the Cesme-Alacati municipalities (CALBIR), the World Bank, and the Ministry of
Tourism. The cost of the consultancy services to be procured under these terms of reference will
be financed by a Japanese Grant to the Turkish Government.
CURRENT EXPERIENCE IN WATER AND SANITATION SERVICES
3.    The Cesme and Alacati municipalities are adjacent. They use the same water supply
source and will share a wastewater collection and disposal system. The water supply and
sanitation services were until late 1997 provided separately by the two municipalities. Both
services are rated unsatisfactory by both the municipal authorities and the customers. In view of
this situation, the municipal authorities decided to create a single local authority (the CALBIR) to
provide water supply and wastewater services. This cooperation would allow the municipalities
to benefit from economies-of-scale in the provision of services.
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
4.    MunicilDal CALBIR The  CALBIR was approved by the Council of Ministers on
September 08, 1997 and published in the Official Gazette on September 30, 1997. The CALBIR
was established in accordance with the provisions of Articles 133-148 of Municipal Law 1580.
Under the CALBIR By-laws, the CALBIR is responsible for the development, management and
operation of water supply, wastewater and solid waste services in Cesme and Alacati.



Annex 2
Attachment 1
Page 2of 4
5.     The CALBIR has decided to contract with a private operator the provision of water
supply and wastewater services, and concentrate on financing new investments, and employing
contractors and consultants to undertake and supervise the necessary investments.
6.    Ministry of Tourism (MOT)      MOT played an important role in preparing the
Cesme-Alacati project in coordination with the municipal authorities. MOT will continue to play
a central role during the duration of this consultant study and will continue to advise the
CALBIR.
7.    Private Operator   A single private operator would be responsible for (a) managing,
operating and maintaining all the water supply and wastewater service; (b) for billing and
collecting water and wastewater charges on behalf of the CALBIR; (c) for maintaining detailed
operating records and accounts which will be duly audited annually by private auditors; and (d)
for monitoring the water supply quality and effluent quality in the planned pre-treatment
wastewater plant. The CALBIR expects to benefit from the experience of the private sector
participation in water supply and wastewater services in Antalya and in Bursa.
OBJECTIVE AND APPROACH OF THE CONSULTING SERVICES
8.    The objective of this consulting services contract is to assist the CALBIR in preparing for
and contracting with a private operator in the provision of water supply and wastewater services.
The contractual arrangement to be implemented shall be technically, legally, financially and
politically viable. A technically viable arrangement would be one that is: (i) well-targeted to
resolve existing problems, as perceived by municipal authorities, customers, and other
stakeholders; and (ii) compatible with existing legislative framework.  A legally viable
arrangement would be one where no new legislation is required for implementation. A financially
viable arrangement would be one that could be financed at tariffs that consumers are willing to
pay. And, a politically viable arrangement would be one that has political support, both within the
formal authorities and other relevant stakeholders.
9.    The consultants shall take the recently awarded private operator contract in Antalya
Municipality and the one under preparation for the Bursa Municipality as the models for a similar
private operator contract for the CALBIR. The consultants shall assess the differences in
conditions between Antalya and Bursa on one hand and on the other hand, and allow for the
impact that these differences may have on the bidding process and conditions of the contract.
10.   The consultants should ensure that the cost of engaging the private operator is reasonable
in light of the relatively small size of the water supply and wastewater systems. The consultants
shall use to the maximum extent the recently completed studies for Antalya and Bursa while
preparing similar bidding documentation and contracts for the CALBIR. The Cesme-Alacati
contract is expected to serve as model documents for small and medium-sized municipalities in
Turkey.



Annex 2
Attachment I
Page 3of 4
SCOPE OF WORK
11.   The consultants' work will be divided into four phases. The CALBIR will review and
approve the completion of each phase before instructing the consultants to proceed to the
following phase.
Phase 1: Preparation and Documentation Phase ( Estimated time: 2 months)
12.  In Phase One the consultant should undertake the following tasks:
*  analyzing and recommending changes to the Antalya and Bursa documents for use by
the CALBIR. The consultants should, among other things, analyze the staff employed
by the municipalities of Cesme and Alacati in the present operation of the water supply
and wastewater systems and how the Private Operator could offer them employment
to ensure continuity and transfer of knowledge;
* designing and proposing a bidding process, which involves decisions such as:
0  the criteria to prequalify bidders, taking into account the need to promote wide
competition, while at the same time ensuring that the prequalified firms have
the capacity to provide services acceptable to the CALBIR and the
municipalities;
0  the information to be provided to bidders, such as the necessary technical,
financial, legal and regulatory information, inventory of existing facilities, and
current tariffs;
0  the extent to which there are discussions with bidders before the formal bidding
process begins, and the form of these discussions;
0  the instructions to bidders on what their proposals should contain;
0  the methods that will be used to evaluate bids; and
0 the procedures for handling complaints and appeals from the bidders.
* preparing the necessary bidding documents, including prequalification documents,
request for bid proposals, and draft contract.
Phase 2: Prequalification ( Estimated time: 2 months)
13.  In phase 2 the consultant should assist the CALBIR in prequalifying bidders, which
includes activities such as providing information to bidders, as appropriate, and evaluating the



Annex 2
Attachment 1
Page 4of 4
requests for prequalification. All the bidders meeting the prequalification criteria shall be allowed
to bid
Phase 3: Bidding ( Estimated time: 4 months).
14.   In phase 3 the consultant should assist the CALBIR in carrying out the bidding process,
including providing information to bidders, as appropriate, and evaluating bids.
Phase 4: Contracting and Transfer of Operating Responsibility (Estimated time: 2 months)
15.  In phase 4 the consultant should assist the CALBIR in negotiating the contract with the
selected bidder, and in turning over the water and sewerage services to the private operator. Due
attention should be paid to the transfer conditions for those municipal staff that will be retained by
the Private Operator.
COST OF CONSULTING SERVICES
16.  In view of the expected substantial economies from using the Antalya and Bursa
experiences and documentation as models the entire cost of the consulting services is estimated at
US$200,000. In addition, a US$50,000 success fee will be paid to the consultants upon the
successful transfer of services to the private operator.
INVOLVEMENT OF LOCAL CONSULTANTS
17.   Due to the nature of the consulting assignment and the need to have familiarity with the
Turkish business and legal environment,  the consultants are recommended to work in
cooperation with local consultants.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR MONITORING THE PRIVATE OPERATOR
18.   The CALBIR will most likely hire on a sole source basis the consultant working under
these terms of reference (TOR) to assist in the next stage to supervise the contract with the
private operator and monitoring its performance.



Annex 2
Attachment 2
Cesme-Alacati Water Supply and Wastewater Project
Monitoring Sea Water Quality at Sea Outfall
The CALBIR will monitor sea outfall conditions,and will take once a year measurements
to assess the quality of the water during peak flow in summer (July/August). The following
parameters will be monitored:
Physio-chemical
*  temperature
*  dissolved oxygen
*  salinity
*  turbidity
*  conductivity
*  pH
Chemical and biochemical
*  total nitrogen
*  total phosphorus
*  biochemical oxygen demand
*  chemical oxygen demand
*  silicates
.  chlorophyll-alpha
Bacteriological quality
* T90 (decay rate)
* fecal coliform
* total coliform
The cost of monitoring the above parameters is expected to be around $6,000 per sample
including all the above tests. The measurements are to be carried out at different distances from
the coastal line and at different depths following a grid pattern of which the center line follows the
axis of the sea outfall and two parallel lines are located at 1,000m distance from and at both sides
of the center line. Distances from the coast line as follows: 1, 650, 1300, and 2300m. In total at
12 locations at a depth of 0 (at the surface), 5, 10, and 20m. The total cost of the above Physio-
chemical, Chemical and biochemical and Bacteriological monitoring during the project period is
expected to be US$100,000.
The physical condition of the sea outfall will be monitored by divers. The total cost for
the monitoring of the physical condition is expected to be around US$10,000.



Cesme - Alacati - Water Supply and Sewerage Project
Procurement Plan
Component                   Co'ntract        Naturc of       Cost   Procurement'   .      'Ddlines
Identification     Package        Estimate    Method
.~~~~~~~~~i   ...
_   _       -         -           -~~~~~~~~~~Pcmni iii   0.        -             -
BANK FINANCED COMPONENTS
A - Water Supply
D)istrict Nicterinig - Cliloritiatioln and  Al    Goods and Minor    688        IS/NS      05/30/99                 07/01/99   09/01/99   12/30/99
Minor Extensions           (multiple contracts)  Works')
Relocation of lidir Wells             A2              Works          332        NCB       07/30/98     07/01/98     09/01/98   11/01(98   04/30/99
Urgent Repairs and Upgrading          A3          Goods and Minor    920      IS/NS/MW    Ongoing process during initial period of the Project Implementation
Worksb)                                                 .. 
B - Wastewater
Wastewater Pumping Stations            BI             Works          4,064      NCB        07/30/98     10/30/98    01/01/99   03/30/99   03/30/00
Wastewater Network                    B2              Works          7,958       ICB       07/30/98    08/01/00     09/30/00   01/01/01   02/28/03
C - Consultants and Auditors
Implementation Supervision            Cl             Individual      436    Section V of  01/15/98                             02/26/98   02/28/03
(multiple contracts)    Consultancy           Guidelines
Conatruction Supervision               C2           Consultancy      1,402      QCBS       07/30/98    06/01/98     09/01/98   11/01/98   03/31/03
Private Operator Supervision          C3            Consultancy       859      QCBS"    01/01/99                    01/15/99   03/31/99   03/31/03
Private Auditors                       C4           Consultancy       278        Least     05/30/98    06/01/98     07/01/98   09/30/98   03/31/01
Cost
Private Operator Fixed Fees            C5           Consultancy      1,150,1    QCBS       06/30/98    07/31/98      10/1/98   03/12/99    TBD
Office Equipment                       C6              Goods          197        NS
Monitoring Sea Outfall                 C7                             143       QCBS       03/30/99    05/31/99     06/30/99   10/31/99    TBD
MOT FINANCED COMPONENTS                                                                                                                             . .
Hydrogeological Survey                Di            Consultancy      470        GOT'                                            1997    03/30/98
llica Sewer Network, Bulk Meter       D2              Works         4,000       GOT                                             1997    12/31/99
Grout Curtain                         D)3             Works          1,103      GO'l'     05/30/98                  07/01/98   09/01/98   06/31/99
a) Includes contingencies, taxes and duties. Wastewater Pumping Stations comprises 2 contracts.
b)  About $460,000 each is expected to be spent on Goods and Minor Works. Does not include contingencies but includes taxes.
c)  It will be continuation of a contract where the consultants will help in securing and supervising a private operator. A QCBS process, under Project preparation, is being followed  la s >
for selecting the consultant which will help secure and supervise the private operator.                                                                         D
d) Does not include contingencies and but includes taxes.                                                                                                          CD      CS
e) It includes US$200,000 for minor works and US$488,000 for goods.
f) Government of Turkey procurement procedures will be fbllowed.
w



SCHEDULE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
Item                                     Objective                                Possible Provider                         Contracting Method
Cl Implementation Supervision                Assist CALBIR in the supervision of Project  Individual Consultants with specific expertise  Section V of Guidelines
execution
C2 Construction Supervision                  Assist CALBIR in the supervision of project  Consulting Firm with experience in Technical  QCBS
execution                                   Assistance for Bank project implementation
supervision
C3 Supervision of Private Opcrator           Assist CALBIR in the supervision ol Private  Consulting Fimn preparing bid documents for   QCBS
Operator                                    Private Operator
C4 Auditing of CALBIR Accounts               Audit                                       Consulting Fimn                                Least Cost Method
C5 Private Operator Fees                     To cover the fixed costs of the operator    A private water company, working under a       QCBS
management contract
C7 Monitoring Sea Outfall                    Enable CALBIR to take action, as appropriate,   Consulting finn                            QCBS
to ensure seawater quality
IS: Intemational Shopping; NS: National Shopping; NCB: National Competitive Bidding; ICB: Intemational Competitive Bidding; MW: Minor Works
QCBS: Quality and Cost Based Selection; QBS: Quality Based Selection



CEsME - ALACATI WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CHART OF ACCOUNTS
Loan            SAR
Account    Agreement        Component/        Funding                            Account Description
Category     Subcomponent       Source
CASII ACCOUNTS
1100                          000              0       Cash - IBRD Spccial Account
1200                          000              0       Cash - Union Account
FUNDING SOURCES
2110                           000             1       Union Funding
2120                           000             2       World Bank Funding
2130                           000             3       Ministry of Tourism Funding
WATER SUPPLY
3310                           110                     District Metering
3320                           120                     Chlorination
3330                                                   Ilder Springs
3340                                                   Urgent Repairs and Upgrading
3350                                                   Hydrogeological Study
3360                                                   Bulk Water Meter
3370                                                   Ildir Grout Curtain
WASTEWATER
3410                                                   Pumping
3420                                                   Grit Removal
3430                                                   Sewage Collection (Cesme)
3440                                                   Sewage Collection (Ilica)
CONSULTANTS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
3510                                                   Implementation Supervision
3520                                                   Conslruction Supervision
3530                                                   Private Operator (Selection and Supervision)
3540                                                   Private Auditors                                                             o
3550    1              1                 1             Office Equipment                                                             so v t



CESME-ALACATI WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY OF SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS
As of...........................
Current Quarter:..........................
Currency.......................
Actual                                Budget                                Variance
Year-to     Current    Cumulative    Current       Year-to    Cumulative  Current         Year-to    Cumulative
date       Quarter      To-Date      Quarter       date       To-Date    Quarter          date        To-Date
Project Financing
1 Union Funding
2 World Bank Funding
3 Ministry of Tourism
Total Financing
Project Expenditures
1. Works Water Supply
2. Works Sewerage
3. Goods
4. Urgent Repairs & Upgrading
5. Consultancy Services/Audits
_



CESME-ALACATI WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
COST VARIANCE REPORT
As of...........................
Current Quarter:..........................
Currency.......................
Loan                  Actual                            Budget                           Variance
Project Expenditurcs   Funding  Agreement  Current   Year-to-  Cumulative  Current  Year-to-  Cumulative   Current   Year-  Cumulative
Source    Category   Quarter    Date        To-Date    Quarter    Date        To-Date    Quarter    to-        To-Date
- Date
1. Works Water Supply
2. Works Sewerage
3. Goods
4. Urgent Repairs and
Upgrading
5. Consultancy
Services/Audits
I



Annex 2
Attachment 4
Page 4 of 9
4ta
.
LI
C~~C 
oQ   ~~    *
y   d   ..:   _  "~~~~I
;   o  ' * ~o  s't
s             _  y r 
-g{ 



Annex 2
Attachment 4
CESME-ALACATI WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT                            Page 5 of 9
EXPENDITURE BY DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY
As of...........................
Current Quarter:..........................
Currency.......................
Actual Current Quarter      Forecast Next Quarter
(b)          (c)            (d)           (e)
Project       IBRD         Project        EBRD
Disbursement Category       Eligible  Expenditurel    Eligible    Expenditurel    Eligible
(Per Loan Agreement)          %                    Expenditures                Expenditures
Payable from                Payable from
Special                     Special
Account                     Account
Project Expenditures
1. Works Water Supply
2. Works Sewerage
3. Goods
4. Urgent Repairs and Upgrading
5. Consultancy Services/Audits
Total Expenditure
Less: Amount paid from Special
Account
Balance not yet paid from Special
Account
Total eligible to be paid
Balance in Special Account
(excluding adjustments)
IBRD Disbursement Requested



CESME-ALACATI WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CONTRACT EXPENDITURE REPORT
GOODS AND WORKS (FOR CONTRACTS ABOVE PRIOR REVIEW THRESHOLD)
PRIOR REVIEW THRESHOLD: > US$ .............. PER LOAN AGREEMENT
As of .............     (cumulative)
Currency.......................
Contract Description            Contract  Supplier/             Zip Code  Contract  Amount  Amount
Number  Contract  Nationality   if US      Value   Invoiced    Paid
or                                      to date   to date
Goods
International Competitive Bidding
National Competitive Bidding
National Shopping
To be determined
Total Goods
Works
National Shopping
National Competitive Bidding
Direct Contracting
Total Works



TURKEY CESME - ALCATI WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT (IBRD LOAN _ - TR)
CON'rlAcr EXPENDITIJRE REPORT (A)
CONSULTANTS (FOR CONTRACTS ABOVE PRIOR REVIEW THRESIIOLD)
PRIOR REVIEW TIIRESIIOLD: >= U.S. $... (INDIVIDUAL) OR U.S. S... (FIRM)
As of:                      (cumulative)
Applicable currency:
Contract Description (b)        Contract    Consultant   Nationality    Zip Code    Contract   Amount    Amount Paid to
Number                                       if U.S.       Value       Invoiced            date
_________  ___________   _______ to     date
Quality and Cost Based
Selection
Quality Based Selection            _                                     ._.
Fixed Budget Selection
Least Cost Selection
Single .Source Selection
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;a
-Commercial Practices.._
Noters:         ---    -       Ttl,.                                                                                    _d  
(a)     In orderto runthis report, the followingwili needtobe input: typeofcurrency (i.e., local or loan) and applicable quarter(e.g. Q197, Q297,                  CD
397, Q497). t  a     t
(b)      Amendments that are subjected to 13ank no objection should be included as all additional line with thec sanie contract nuinber aiid amendiiienit numiber.  xo  1 



TURKEY CESME - ALCATI WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT (IBRD LOAN _- TR)
PROCUREMEN'r MANAGEMENT REPORT (A)
GOODS AND WORKS (FOR CONTRACTS ABOVE REVIEW THRESIIOLD)
PRIOR REVIEW THRESHOLD: >= $... (OR EQUIVALENT IN OTHER CURRENCIES) PER LOAN AGREEMENT (SCIIEDULE 4, PART D.2.)
As of:                    (cumulative)
Bidding Process Dates (DD/MM/YY)
Bid Docs Ready   No Objection   Call for Bids (c)   Bid Open  No Objection   Contract  Contract Start   Contract End  Supplier/
l____________________________                                          Signature                                    Contractor
Contract Description (b)     Tender   Est    Actual  Est  Actual  Est    Actual  Est  Actual  Est  Actual  Est  Actual      Est  Actual   Est  Actual
Number
Goods
International Competitive
Bdding                                             _                                                                       
National Competitive Bidding                    _ _                             =            =_=                  _       ='_=__
National Shopping                           _ ___                                                                           __=____
To be determined                                                                     _                                              _
W orks                                               =                            =            =_=                  _        =_=
National Shopping                                                       _     _                                                           _
Aational Competitive Bidding                         =                           =            =            =_=_=
Direct Contracting
(a)     In order to run this report, the following will need to be input: applicable date.
This report has been designed for the LACI pilot phase. It duplicates information already captured in form 384.
The information contained in the report vill be integrated and the format revised under the Procurement Information System already under development.
(b)     For Contracts witlh pre-qualification, the daic of submissioni of pre-qualification docuwtcnts and the date of no objection should be provided.
(c)     Call for Bids is the date of publication for specific procurement notices.
0  -
0   



TURKEY CESME - ALACATI WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PRO.JECT (IBRD LOAN    -TR)
PROCUREMENT MANAGEMENT REPORT (A)
CONSULTANTS (FOR CONTRACTS ABOVE PRIOR REVIEW TIIRESHOLD)
PIZIOR REVIEW: >= U.S. $... (INDIVIDUAL) OR U.S. S... (FIRM)
As of:                        (cumulative)
________                                                               ProPo. Wd rocen Dage. (DDM  _Y
AdowI.oiog  FFP FioA Dn.n  No Objfi-    lorto F-.   P.p ... R.oipt   Ten E,.1 NO F0n-l No Obij    Co.o No Obj   Co,.o Signord   Co1ot  Stat  Coar.t ald   SoPpli
Cool,a.l Doo.plio, b)   Po.o...I  P E  Aor -1  EoA  Aotot   Pot   Aoto,t  EP    Ad.,[l  olt  AU1     LS    Adon        EA A.too  Ed   A O     Po    Adol   P.    Act.dl  Et    /kl
oooi rd Coo, Booed Edonoto=_ 
1,n Co.t &kWd-                                              _      _ 
ngk So-e Sekailon
Notes:
(a)      In order to run this report, the following will need to be input: applicable date.
This report has been designed for the l,ACI pilot phase. It duplicates information already captured in form 384.
Ilic inlorlllationt contained in the report will be integrated and the format revised under the Procurement lnformation System already under development.
(b)      Amendments that are subjected to Bank no objection should be included as an additional line with the same contract number ad amendment number.
p:\turkey\infra\cesme-ws\21ena\finmgt.doc
0o
41 t
-+ > t



Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COST
(in current US$1000)
1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003 TOTAL
Institutional Strengthening
Audit/Consultants and Office Equipmenta          50     250      250      250     250      100   1,150
Fees to Private Operator                         0      300      300      200     200        0   1,000
Design and Supervision                          307     195      220      330     200      100   1,352
Sub-total                                     357      745     770      780      650     200   3,502
Water
District Metering and Extensions               -        350      -       -        -        -       350
Chlorination                                   -        150      -       -        -        -       150
Relocation of lldir wells                      -        250      -       -        -        -       250
Urgent Repairs and Upgrading                   -                300      500      -        -       800
Hydrogeological Study - MOT                    300      -        -       -        -        -       300
Bulk Water Meter- MOT                           20      -        -       -        -        -        20
Ildir Grout Curtain - MOT                      750      -        -       -        -        -       750
Sub-total                                   1,070     750     300      500      -        -      2,620
Wastewater
Pumping Stations                               -        400     800      600      500     500    2,800
Wastewater Network (Cesme)                     -        -      1,100    2,200    1,500    500    5,300
Sewage Collection (Ilica) - MOT              2,000      800      -       -        -        -     2,800
Sub-total                                  2,000    1,200    1,900    2,800    2,000    1,000   10,900
Basic Cost                                   3,427    2,695    2,970    4,080    2,650    1,200   17,022
Physical Contingency (10%)                      342.7   269.5      297     408      265      120   1,702
Price Contingency                                38      150      352      697     595      335    2,166
Project Cost                                 3,807    3,115    3,619    5,185    3,510    1,655   20,890
Taxes (15%)                                      571      467      543     778      526      248   3,134
TOTAL PROJECT COST                          4,379    3,582    4,162    5,963    4,036    1,903   24,024
Indexof UnitValueofMUVb                100%    102%    106%    109%    112%    115%    118%
Price Adjustment factor                         101%    105%    111%    116%    120%    125%
District metering and extension (US$150,000) and service extension (US$200,000)
a: Ind cons (US$300,000), superv priv operator (US$500,000), auditors (US$200,000) & office equip (US$150,000)
b: Index for manufactured exports from G-5 countries, expressed in US dollars
Source: World Bank Operational Manual (OP 6.50 - Annex Bl), November 1997



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
FINANCING PLAN
(in current US$ 1000)
1998    1999    2000    2001       2002     2003 TOTAL
Union
Contribution to Investnents                       0      135      675    1,037      772      402    3,021
Taxes                                             8      315      543      778      526      248    2,418
Total Union                                      8      449    1,218    1,815    1,299      650    5,439
MOT
Investments                                    3,752    1,017      -        -        -        -      4,769
Taxes                                           563      153       -        -        -        -       715
Total MOT                                    4,315    1,170                                 -      5,484
Bank Loan'                                         56    1,963    2,944    4,148    2,737    1,253   13,100
Total Financing                                 4,379    3,582    4,162    5,963    4,036    1,903   24,024
a: 54.5% of total project cost



Annex 4
Page I of 4
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS OF SEA WATER DISCHARGE
1.0  Introduction
1.1  The Project proposes the expansion of sewer networks and disposal of wastewater through
a sea outfall, south of Alacati (Figure 1). The effects of discharge on the sea water quality and
marine ecology as well as compliance of the resulting water quality with relevant Turkish and EU
standards were analyzed, as part of the environmental assessment. The wastewater flow
considered was as follows:
PERIOD        FLOW (I/s)      BOD (kgld)
Summer
1995             0               0
2000             73            1,994
2005            130            3,448
2010            224            5,768
2015            334            8,513
2020            477            11,933
Winter
1995             0               0
2000             28             698
2005             49            1,330
2010             83            2,126
2015            122            2,873
2020            176            3,925
1.2    The Alacati sea outfall is located 1,300 meters from the coast south of Alacati (Figure 2).
There is little development in the area but plans exist for a marina for Alacati Bay, a few
kilometers away from the outfall. The Greek island Samos is located at about 80km south east,
whereas another Greek island Khios is at 20km west of the sea outfall.
2.0    Environmental Assessment
2.1    The effect of the discharge on the sea was simulated using a model that incorporates
dilution. The main conclusions are as follows:
Effects on Trophic State
2.2    Nutrients (nitrogen and phosphorus) contained in untreated domestic wastewater that are
discharged to the sea may affect the trophic state of coastal waters and increase the prinary
productivity. Domestic wastewater contains typically 50 mg/l of total N and 10-15mg/l of total P.
Simulations show that dilutions are typically in the order of magnitude of 1,000-10,000 in an area
that is 3-4 km away from the diffuser. This means that the concentrations of N and P will be
reduced to 0.35-3.5 micromole per liter (imol/l) and 0.04-0.4 imolIl respectively. Superposed



Annex 4
Page 2 of 4
upon the existing nutrient concentrations in the Sea, the nutrient inputs may trigger an elevated
level of productivity in a region within 3km diameter around the outfall. In the farfield the effect of
additional nutrients fades away and has no impact on the marine biology. Analysis shows that at
discharge level of 200-3001/s it will be necessary to control the nutrient inputs. These flow levels
are expected to be reached around 2010. By that time, the Cesme-Alacati municipality Union
(CALBIR) should consider upgrading the treatment and seek means to re-use the treated
wastewater.
Effect on Fish Species
2.3    A survey of the region was conducted which showed that the region has about 17 species
of flora, 129 species of benthic invertebrates and 13 species of fish. When the sewage discharge
starts, there will be minor effects on the flora and fauna around the diffuser. The resistant species
will remain and probably will increase their population while others will evacuate the region of
influence. With regard to free swinmming pelagic fishes, they are generally attracted to areas
around municipal outfalls because they find abundant food in these areas. In the specific case of
the Alacati outfall, there is no risk of bio-accumulation of heavy metals or persistent organics that
may be toxic to the fish species because there are no industries operating in the region.
2.4   It is also unlikely that even the immediate region around the diffuser structure will suffer
from oxygen depletion. The initial dilutions calculated in the simulations have all been found to be
greater than 100. This means that the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD5) of domestic wastewater
(typically up to 300mg/1) will exert an oxygen demand of less than 0.3mg/l on the sea water. Since
it has been measured that the dissolved oxygen concentrations at the outfall location are at near
saturation levels (8-10mg/l), BOD5 will not lower the oxygen concentration at critical level for the
survival of the fish. Thus, the impact on the flora and fauna will be limited and no significant
impact on commercial fisheries should be expected.
Compliance with Laws and Regulations
2.5    The water quality standards due to the discharge was compared with EU Bathing Water
directives' and Turkish laws2. From the analysis it can be concluded that:
*  compliance with mandatory European Union Bathing Standards is achieved for T903 values of
less than or equal to 1.5h up to the year 2020. At flow rates exceeding 3001/s and at wind
speeds less than 3.0 m/s, EU Bathing Water standards will be met 1,300 m away from the
diffuser;
*  compliance with mandatory European Bathing Standards may not be achieved for T90 value of
2h and at a wind velocity exceeding 4m/s. However, since northerly winds are predominant in
the project area throughout the year and persistent in summer, discharged wastewater will be
1 Microbiological standards: i) Mandatory - 2,000 E. coli per 100 ml; 10,000 total coliform per 100 ml; ii)
Recommended - 100 E. coli per 100 ml; 500 total coliform per 100 ml
2 Microbiologoical standards: 200 E.coli per 100 ml; 1,000 total coliform per 100 ml
3 Decay rate measures on the basis of the time required for inactivation of 90% of coliform bacteria



Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
carried away from the shore towards the open sea. This minimizes the possibility of the
beaches not meeting the standards; and
compliance with Turkish laws are reached under the following conditions: a) for Tgo of 1.Oh
throughout the project period for wind velocities not exceeding 4 m/s; b) for Tgo of 1.5 h
throughout the project period for wind velocities not exceeding 3 m/s; c) for Tgo of 2.0 h
throughout the project period for wind velocities not exceeding 2 m/s. This implies that at
approximately 2,000 meters from the coast line and at a decay rate of 1.5 hours, and wind
speeds less than 3.0 m/s, the sea water will meet Turkish Bathing water standards until the
year 2020. Since the distance between the outfall and the nearby Greek island is around 20
kilometers, the effect of the discharge on the island is negligible.
3.0    Recommendations
3.1    The analysis performed shows that there is no significant environmental effects due to the
discharge of the wastewater. However, certain measures are recommended to ensure a long term
solution to the discharge of the wastewater without affecting the environment.
Chlorination
3.2    To remove any concems about bacteriological content in the wastewater discharge,
chlorination of the wastewater before it is discharged into the sea is recommended. An optimum
dosage, depending on the wastewater flow, will be evaluated and used. Chlorination is not an
expensive option and would remove any risks associated with coliform contamination.
Monitorina
3.3    The simulation on the dilution of wastewater has been based on project design flows.
However, it could be possible that during operations, the actual wastewater flow and BOD load
exceeds design values. Hence, it is recommended that from date of initial operations, sea water
quality be carefully monitored. For this purpose an action program is proposed comprising annual
measurements to assess physio-chemical, chemical and biochemical and bacteriological parametcr
of the sea water during peak and off-peak flows. Also monitoring of physical condition of sea
outfall should be performed which would require special equipment to determine the quality
underwater. The CALBIR will be responsible for the monitoring and taking any corrective actions,
if required.
Future Plans
3.4    The analysis shows that up to the year 2015 European Union and Turkish standards on
water quality will most likely be met (para. 2.5). After that, given the increase in the population,
the CALBIR would have to take additional steps such as upgrading the treatment of the wastewater
through the construction of a treatment plant and using the effluent for land use purposes. The
wastewater treatment plant will not be required until the year 2015 and consequently construction
should start around 2012. As an alternative to delaying the construction of the wastewater
treatment beyond 2012, land infiltration techniques may also be considered.
3.5    The CALBIR should consider the re-use of treated effluent from the treatment plant since
there is a shortage of water for agricultural purposes during summer months. The treated



Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
wastewater may be used for irrigation purposes or even used to water a golf course which is
expected to be built in the vicinity of the outfall. Golf courses require abundant water to maintain
the greens and fairways. Since rainfall during summer is low in the area, developers of the future
golf course may have a strong interest in using the effluent and contributing towards the
construction of the wastewater treatment plant. The Bank during Project implementation will
provide technical assistance to the CALBIR in determining options for future wastewater treatment
and re-use of the effluent.



Annex 5
TURKEY
CESME - ALACATI WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
QUARTERLY LOAN DISBURSEMENT ESTIMATES
Bank             Date End          Quarterly         Cumulative         Cumulative
Fiscal Year         Quarter         Disbursement       Disbursement       Disbursement
(US$ million)     (US$ million)         (in %)
FY99         September 30              0.1*               0.1                1
December 31               0.0                0.1                1
March 31                  0.2                0.3               2
June 30                  0.7                 1.0               8
FYOO         September 30             0.6                 1.6              13
December 31               0.6                2.2              16
March 31                 0.7                 2.9              22
June 30                   0.7                3.6              27
FY01         September 30             0.8                 4.4              33
December 31               0.8                5.2              40
March 31                  0.8                6.0              46
June 30                   1.0                7.0              53
FY02        September 30               1.0                8.0              62
December 31              0.9                 8.9              70
March 31                  0.8                9.7              76
June 30                  0.8                10.5              81
FY03         September 30             0.6                11.1              84
December 31               0.6               11.7              89
March 31                  0.6               12.3              94
June 30                   0.8               13.1             100
* Initial Deposit in Special Account



TURKEY
CESME - ALACATI WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
WATER AND SEWERAGE SERVICES
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE*
(Current US$000)
1995                                 1996                                  1997
Cesme      Alacati    Combined    Cesme         Alacati     Combined       Cesme       Alacati    Combined
Operating Revenues
Watertariffs                      481.5         36.9       518.4       471.8         73.1         545.0        700.0       118.0       817.9
WastewaterfIanks                   51.6          -          51.6        40.0           -          40.0          66.1         0.0        66.1
Contr. to Water Inv.                0.2         25.5        25.7         0.1         52.1          52.2          -           8.4          8.4
Contr. to Waste/Tanks              19.8         53.8        73.6         5.7         35.0         40.7          16.7        28.6        45.3
Penalties**                        26.2          5.2        31.5        27.2          0.4         27.7          29.3         0.9         30.1
Total Operating Rev.       579.3        121.4       700.7       544.9        160.7         705.6        812.1       155.9       967.9
Operating Expenditures
Personnel(Water)                   60.5         53.4       113.9        76.3         60.8         137.1        115.2        71.7        186.9
Personnel (Wastewater)             23.9          -          23.9        37.1           -           37.1         52.3         0.0        52.3
Other Current Exp. (Water)        237.4          6.4       243.8       306.4          7.1         313.5        253.9         0.6       254.5
Other Current Exp. (Wastewater)    57.8          -          57.8        57.8           -           57.8         80.3         0.0        80.3
Repairs (Water)                     1.3          6.4         7.7        17.9         30.1         48.0          21.2        77.0        98.2
Repairs (Wastewater)                9.6          -           9.6        35.9         44.0          79.9          -           0.0          -
Total Operating            390.4         66.3       456.7       531.4        142.0        673.4         522.9       149.3       672.2
Expenditure
Operational Surplus (Deficit)      188.9         55.1       244.0        13.5         18.7          32.2        289.2         6.6       295.7
Payments to I1cr Bank               85.2          -          85.2       139.4           -          139.4        159.7        39.8        199.4
Cash Surplus (Deficit)             103.7         55.1       158.9       (129.9)        18.7       (107.2)       129.5       (33.2)        96.3
*       Cash Accounting
**      Assuming 25% of total penalties collected by the Municipality correspond to water and wastewater/tanks.
C,



Annex 7
ANNUAL WATER AND WASTEWATER DEMAND
1997      1998       1999       2000      2001       2002       2003       2004      2005
PoPulation
Resident                       20,886    22,138     23.467     24,875    26,455     28,136     29,924     31,826     33,850
Summer bouse                   65,793    67,406     69,059     70,754    72,307     73,896     75,520     77,180     78,878
Tourist                        14,768    15,675     16,693     17,857     18,947    20,132     21,423     22,835    24,386
Total population            101,447    105,219    109,219    113,486    117,709    122,164    126,867    131,841    137,114
Water Demand (literslcapitalday)
Resident                           97         97        97         97         97        97         97         97         97
Summnerhouse                      115        115       115        115        115        115       115        115        115
Tourist                           247        247       250        250        250       250        250        250        250
Water Production (IOOOm3)         3,934     4,045      4,012      4,329     4,768      5,231      5,467      5,647      5,828
Water Billed (IO0m3)             1,267      1,321     1,467      1,759      2,098     2,482      2,756      3,021      3,270
Annual billings increase (%)                 4.3%      11.1%      19.8%      19.3%     18.3%      11.0%       9.6%      8.2%
Losses (% of production)'          68%        67%        63%       59%        56%        53%       50%        47%        44%
Consumption from
Private Wells (1000m3)              735        647       559        471        382       291        211        113         33
Water Connections
Service Ratio
Residents                        73%        73%       75%        80%        S5%        90%       92%        93%        94%
Summer House                     73%        73%       75%        80%        85%        90%       92%        93%        94%
Population Comnected
Residents                      15,247    16,161     17,600     19,900    22,487     25,322     27,530     29,598    31,819
Summer house                  48,029     49,206     51,794     56,603    61,461     66,506     69,478     71,777    74,145
Tourist                         5,412     5,687      6,197      7,000     7,988      9,041      9,825     10,523     11,244
Number of Connections
Residents                      4,066      4,310      4,693      5,307     5,996      6,753      7,341      7,893      8,485
Sumnner house                  11,301    11,578     12,187     13,318     14,461    15,649     16,348     16,889     17,446
Tourist/Comniercial              258        270        279       296        323        356        391       417        440
Total                        15,625    16,158     17,159     18,921    20,781     22,757     24,080     25,199     26,371
Volume of Water biDled (10OOm')
Resident Population              351        372        418       507        613        735        828       922       1,014
Summer house population          528        541        587       690        801        923      1,000      1,069      1,130
Tourists                         317        333        379       460        561        677        762       845        923
Commercial                        70         74         84       101        123        147        166       184        203
Total                         1,267     1,321      1,467      1,759     2,098      2,482      2,756      3,021      3,270
Wastewater Connections
Service Ratio                       4%         4%        4%        10%        10%        10%        15%       20%        30%
Population Connected
Residents                        223        236        250       663        705        750      1,197      1,697     2,708
Summer House                     619        634        650      1,665      1,701     1,739      2,665      3,632     5,568
Tourist/Commercial                20         21        22         60         63         67        107       152        244
Total                          862        891       923       2,388     2,470      2,556      3,969      5,482     8,520
Volume Billed (lOOm3)
Residents                         23         23         24        66         73         83        134       190        307
Sumner house                      33         32         33        88         96        104        164       225        343
Tourist                           19         19         20        56         64         74        120       173        279
Commercial                         5          5          5        13         15         17        27         38         62
Total                           80         79         81       223        248        277       445        627        991
a: Includes physical losses, water provided free of charge, and inadequate consumption metering



WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE BALANCE SHEET
(in current 1000 USD)
1997                         1998        1999         2000         2001        2002         2003         2004        2005
CESMg    ALACATI    UNION                                                         UNION
ASSETS
Cash                                                        1           80           82          343         457          437          180         352          226          219         353
Accounts Receivable                                       135          122          257          224         298          382         486          579          649          113         773
Inventories                                                32           25           56           54          67           79          97          109          116          118         120
Total Current Assets                                    168         227           394         620          821         898          763        1,041         991         1,049        1,245
Fixed Assets (water/ww/Iller)                            8,089       5,859        13,947      19,126       23,507      27,669       33,632       38,068      40,971       42,271       43.771
AccumulatedDepreciation                                  1,756         954        2,710        3,041        3,467       3,979        4,592        5,309       6,099        6,932        7,792
Total Fixed Assets                                    6,332        4,905       11,237       16,085      20,040       23,690      29,040       32,759       34,872       35,339      35,979
TotalAssets                                         6,500        5,132       11,632       16,705      20.861      24,588       29,803       33,800       35,863      36,389       37,224
EQUITY AND LLABILITIES
IllerBankLongTermDebt                                     493        1,004         1,497       2,017       2,677        2,537        2,397        2,257       2,117        1,977        1,837
WorldBankLong TermDebt                                    ,                                       56       2,018        4,962        9,110       11,302      11,463       10,371        7,642
IllerBankCurrentPortionofLongTermDebt                      67           43          110          140         140          140          140         140          140          140         140
World Bark Current Portion oflongTcrnDeblt                       -            -            -     -            -                        -           546        I,092        1,092        2.729
Other Payables                                             12            7           19           19          20           23           26          30           31           32           33
Equity                                                   5,928       4,078        10,006      14,473       16,005      16,925       18,129       19,526      21,020       22,776       24,843
Total Fquity and Liability                          6,500        5,132       11,632       16,705      20,861       24,587      29,803       33.800       35,862      36,388       37,224
Debt/Asset Ratio                                                                  1299%        12.4%       22.5%        30.5%        38.6%       40.1%        37.9o/D      33.90/o      25.5%
P)
Gq'o



INCOME STATEMENT
(in current 1000 $)
1997      1998      1999      2000       2001      2002      2003      2004      2005
Water Billed (1000 mi3                           1,267     1,321      1,467     1,759     2,098     2,482     2,756     3,021      3,270
Average Equivalent Water Tariff ($/m )            0.74      1.00       1.20      1.50      1.60       1.60      1.60      1.60      1.60
TOTAL REVENUES                                    937      1,321      1,761     2,638     3,357      3,971    4,410     4,833      5,232
OPERATING EXPENSES
Energy                                          236       249        254       283        320       361       387       410       434
Personnelb                                      228        234       241       248        255       262       369       478        591
Operation/Repair & Maintenance                   156       161       200       237        290       328       349       353       360
Septic Tanks                                     44         40         35        30        25         20        15        10         5
Total Operating Expense                       665       683        731       798        890       970      1,119    1,252      1,390
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST                            272       638       1,030     1,840     2,466      3,001    3,290     3,582      3,842
AND DEPRECIATION
Depreciation                                      225        331       426        512       613       717       790       832       860
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST                             47        307       604      1,328     1,853     2,284     2,500     2,749      2,981
Interest payments to Iller Bankc                  213        140       140        140       140       140       140       140        140
World Bank Commitment Fee                          -          33        28        20         10         3        -        -          -
World Bank Interest                                -           2        74       248        500       744       866       853        775
Total Debt Service                              213        175       241       408        650       887      1,006      993        915
NET INCOME                                        (166)      132       362       920       1,204     1.397     1.494     1.757     2.066
Performance Indicators
Working Ratio (operating expense/reveinucs)               0.52       0.42      0.30      0.27       0.24      0.25     0.26       0.27
Operating Expense per cubic meter of water billed ()      0.52       0.50      0.45      0.42       0.39      0.41     0.41       0.43
a: The fees to the private operator during the initial years ofthe contract (1999-2002) are included as part ofproject investments and not
shown in the income statement
b:An additional S 100,000 of personnel costs are included from 2003 since the fees to the private operator from investments will cease in 2002.
c: Iller Bank loan repayment and interest expense were maintained constant from 1998, due to uncertainties about exact investments                               to)
and debt repayment schedule                                                                                                                                     0  R
040



SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS
(in current 1000 $)
1997     1998       1999     2000      2001      2002      2003     2004       2005
IncomebeforeDepreciation                         272      638      1,030     1,840     2,466     3,001     3,290    3,582     3,842
Loans and Grants                                         5,170     3,932     2,944     4,148     2,737     1,253      -         -
IBRDDisbursement                               -          56     1,963     2,944     4,148     2,737     1,253      -         -
Iller Bank Disbursements                       -        800        800
MOT Disbursements                              -       4,315     1,170
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                        272      5,808     4,962     4,784     6,615     5,738     4,543    3,582     3,842
Investments                                              5,179     4,382     4,162     5,963     4,436     2,903    1,300      1,500
Water and Sewerage (Iller Bank)                          800       800
Investment Cost - IBRD project                         4,379     3,582     4,162     5,963     4,036     1,903      -         -
Investmnents by Union - non IBRD project                                                         400     1,000    1,300      1,500
World Bank Loan Repayment                        -         -         -         -         -         -        546     1,092      1,092
Interest Expense                                             2        74       248       500       744      866       853       775
World Bank Commitment Fee                                   33        28        20        10         3       -        -         -
WorkingCapitalNeeds                              -          54        85        94       119       103       74        65        61
Iller Bank Loan Repayment8                                 140       140       140       140       140       140      140       140
IllerBankInterestExpensea                        213       140       140       140       140       140       140      140       140
TOTAL USES OF FUNDS                           213      5,547     4,848     4,803     6,871     5,566     4,669    3,589     3,708
Change in Cash                                    59       261       114       (20)    (257)       172      (126)      (7)      134
Initial Cash                                    23        82       343       457       437       180      352       226       219
Final Cash                                      82      343        457       437       180       352      226       219       353
CD_



ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
BENEFITS WITH PROJECT                                    1997       1998      1999      2000      2001       2002      2003 2004-2020
Water Production (1000 m3)                               3,934     4,045     4,012     4,329      4,768     5,231     5,467      5,647
Water Losses (1000 M3)                                   1,574     1,618     1,404      1,429     1,526     1,622      1,640     1,638
Water Consumption (1000 m3)a                             2,361     2,427     2,608      2,900     3,242     3,609     3,827      4,009
Average Economic Tariffs ($/rni)                          0.74      0.99      1.14       1.35      1.38      1.33       1.28      1.23
Total With Project Benefits, $ 1000                    1,747      2,403     2,978     3,928     4,490      4,797     4,885     4,920
BENEFITS WITHOUT PROJECT
Water Production (1000 in3)                              3,934     3,810     3,700      3,590     3,480     3,370      3,270     3,270
Water Losses (1000 mi)                                   1,574     1,590      1,600     1,620     1,630     1,650      1,670     1,670
Water Consumption (1000 m3)'                             2,361     2,220     2,100      1,970     1,850     1,720      1,600     1,600
Average Economic Tariffs (S/m3)                           0.72       0.7      0.68       0.66      0.64      0.62        0.6       0.6
Total WithoutProject Benefits, $ 1000                   1,700     1,554     1,428     1,300      1,184     1,066       960       960
INCREMENTAL PROJECT BENEFITS, S 1000                      47       849      1,550     2,627     3,306      3,730     3,925     3,960
COSTS WITH PROJECT
Investment Costs, $1000                                            3,770     2,965      3,267     4,488     2,915      1,320         0
Operating and Maintenance Costs, $ 1,000                             677       696       720        771       806       893        960
Total With Project Costs, S 1000                                   4,446     3,660      3,987     5,259     3,721      2,213       960
COSTS WITIIOUT PROJECT
Investment Costs
Operations and Maintenance Costs @  0.12/mn3                         457       444       431        418       404       392        392
COSTS WITHOUT PROJECT                                                457       444       431        418       404       392        392
INCREMENTAL PROJECT COSTS,$ 1000                                   3,989      3,216     3,557     4,841     3,316      1,820       567
NET ANNUAL BENEFITS, S Million                                     -3140     -1666       -929     -1535       414      2105       3392
ECONOMtIC RATEOF RETlURN:                      23%
a: Includes water billed and free of charge of water
b: Production figures are assumed to be constant



CALCULATION OF AVERAGE INCREMENTAL COST OF CONSUMPTION DURING PEAK BlI-MESTER
1997      1998      1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010    2011    2012    2013   2014
to 2020
WITH PROJECT
Annual Avg. Production, (1000 rn)              3,934     4,045     4,012    4,329    4,768    5,231    5,467    5,647    5,830    6,280    6,490    6,700    6,910    7,120    7,450    7,580    7,850    8,000
Annual Avg. billedconsumption(1000m3)          1,267     1,321     1,467    1,759    2,098    2,482    2,756    3,021    3,270    3,500    3,750    3,950    4,150    4.360    4,570    4,790    5,030    5,200
Peak BimesterFactorAs Percent of                1.74      1.76      1.78     1.79     1.79    1.80     1.80     1.81     1.82     1.83     184     1.85     1.86     1.86     1.86     1.86     1.86      1.86
Average Bimester
Consumption,(1000m3)                             211       220       245      293      350     414      459      503      545      583      625     658      692      727      762      798      838      867
PeakBimesterConsumption,(1000m3)                 -         -         435      525      626     745      827      911      992    1,068    1,150    1,218    1,287    1,352    1,417    1,485    1,559    1,612
Annual Project Investment (USS 1000)                     3,770     2,965    3,267    4,488    2.915    1,320    2,110    1,440    1,540    2,800    2,740    3,250    2,880    3,790    6,770    4,000    3000
Present Vde Project Investments (USSS 1000)                       26,233
Present Value of annual Avg. billed consumption (1000 min)        25,975
lA-m.9e Tnffem-ntW Cost n JISS/mn)                                   I O 
WITHOUT PROJECT
Peak BimensterBilledConsumption,(IWO0ml)         211       220       200      180      160     ISO      150      150      150      150      150      150     150      ISO      150       150               ISO 150
IncrementalPeakBimesterConsumplion               -         -         235      345      466      595     677      761      842      918    1,000    1,068    1,137    1,202    1,267    1,335    1.409    1,462
(1000 m3)
Present Value Peak Bimestcr Incremental                            5,756
Consumption (1000 m3)
Average Incremcntal Capacity Cost of Peak                           4.56
Bimester Consumption (USS per cubic metcr)
Average Incremental Operations and                                  0.15
jMaintenance Cost(US$ per cubic meter)
Total incremental cost of peak bimester                             4.71
[lnngumntpnSk (JSS ne tcubic meter)
a: Investments necessary to increase the annual wate production to 8 million m3 by the year 2014 and maintain it at that level until 2020
;>m
t0



AFFORDIBILITY OF TARIFFS BY RESIDENTS
1998        1999        2000        2001        2002        2003        2004         2005
Total Volume billed (1000 m3)                    1,321        1,467       1,759       2,098       2,482       2,756       3,021       3,270
Peak (July/August) Consumption (1000 m3)                       435         525         626         745         827          911         992
Off Peak Consumption (1000 m3)                   1,321       1,032        1,234       1,472       1,737       1,929       2,110       2,278
Ratio: Peak to Off-peak monthly consumption                    2.1         2.1          2.1         2.1         2.1         2.2         2.2
Resident/Commercial Consumption (1000 m3)          446         501         609         736         882         994        1,107       1,217
Summer house/tourist cons. (1000 m3)               875         966        1,150       1,362       1,600       1,762       1,914       2,053
TARIFF RATIO: Peak/Off-peak                          1           1           2           2           2            2           2           2
Total Revenues                              $ 1,321,003 $ 1,760,813 $ 2,637,819 $ 3,356,861  $ 3,971,056 $ 4,409,585 $ 4,833,369 $ 5,231,543
Average Tariff ($/m3)                             1.00         1.20        1.50        1.60        1.60        1.60        1.60         1.60
Off Peak Tariff ($/m3)                             1.00        1.20        1.16        1.23         1.23        1.23        1.23        1.23
Peak Tariff ($/rm3)                                1.00        1.20        2.31        2.46        2.46         2.46        2.46        2.46
Number of Residents Connected                   16,161      17,600       19,900      22,487      25,322      27,530      29,598      31,819
Number of Houses Connected (3.75 people/house)   4,310       4,693        5,307       5,996       6,753       7,341       7,893       8,485
Revenues from Residents                     $  446,293 $  601,202 $  820,509 $ 1,057,655 $ 1,266,741  $ 1,427,564 $ 1,586,940 $ 1,742,554
Revenues from non-Residents                 $  874,709 $ 1,159,610 $ 1,817,310 $ 2,299,207  $ 2,704,314 $ 2,982,021  $ 3,246,429 $ 3,488,989
Average Monthly Bill per Residence          $     8.63 $    10.67  $    12.88 $    14.70 $    15.63 $    16.20 $    16.76 $    17.11
Household Income Distribution by Quintiled
First                                      $      327 $       342 $       357 $       373 $       390 $       408 $        426 $       445
Second                                     $      504 $       527 $       550 $       575 $       601 $       628 $        656 $       686
Third                                      $      646 $       675 $       705 $       737 $       770 $        805 $       841 $       879
Fourth                                     $      896 $       936 $       978 $    1,022 $    1,068 $    1,117  $    1,167 $    1,219
Fifth                                      $    1,953 $    2,041  $    2,133 $    2,229 $    2,329 $    2,434 $    2,543 $    2,658
Average Share of Tariffs on Household Income
by Quintile
First                                            2.6%        3.1%         3.6%        3.9%        4.0%        4.0%        3.9%        3.8%
Second                                           1.7%        2.0%         2.3%        2.6%        2.6%        2.6%        2.6%         2.5%
Third                                            1.3%         1.6%        1.8%        2.0%        2.0%        2.0%        2.0%         1.9%
Fourth                                           1.0%         1.1%        1.3%        1.4%        1.5%        1.5%        1.4%         1.4%
Fifth                                            0.4%        0.5%w6      0.6%         0,7%        0.7%        0.7%        0.7%        0.6%
a: The income is assumed to grow at the rate of 4.5% annually                                                                                          >
ft



Annex 12
COST COMPARISON OF WELLS AND CALBIR SYSTEM
PRIVATE WELLS                     CALBIR SYSTEM
Year              Total Costsa        Average   Average  Inflation    Annual
New Userb Existing Userc  Monthly    Annual    Factore    Tariff in
TariffI    Tariff             1998 prices
1998        $    950  $         50  $  10.67  $    128       1.05    $    122
1999        $      50  $        50  $  12.88  $    155       1.11    $    139
2000        $      50  $         50  $  14.70  $    176      1.16    $    152
2001        $      50  $         50  $  15.63  $    188       1.20    $    156
2002        $      50  $         50  $  16.20  $    194      1.25    $    156
2003        $      50  $         50  $  16.76  $    201       1.30    $    155
2004        $      50  $        950  $  17.11  $    205      1.30    $    158
2005        $      50  $         50  $  17.11  $    205      1.30    $    158
2006        $      50  $         50  $  17.11  $    205      1.30    $    158
2007        $      50  $         50  $  17.11  $    205      1.30    $    158
2008        $      50  $         50  $  17.11  $    205      1.30    $    158
2009        $      50  $         50  $  17.11  $    205      1.30    $    158
2010        $      50  $         50  $  17.11  $    205       1.30    $    158
2011        $      50  $         50  $  17.11  $    205      1.30    $    158
2012        $      50  $         50  $  17.11  $    205      1.30    $    158
Net Present Value     $1,198         $842                                      $1,144
a: In 1998 prices
b: A $ 900 investment cost and $ 50 annual operation/maintenance cost is assumed
c: An investment of $ 900 is assumed in 2004 to replace the existing system and for added
maintenance costs for older wells
d: In current costs, until the year 2003. Thereafter in 2004 prices
e: Using Index for manufactured exports from G-5 countries; World Bank Operational
Manual (OP 6.50 - Annex B1), November 1997



MAP SECTION



ROMANIA                                                                                                               C -  RUSSIAN j
FEDERATION                              ..                      - .-
' BULGARIA                                NGR'.
TURKEY                                                                     TURKE
p7>->  >&Csme-AIacati                                                            CESME-ALACATI WATER SUPPLY
kg KX "r-F.  *-  ,- --t---- \ <  a-                                                  AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
';  ,-jv SARAsN 1 IRAQ 5WASTEWATER COMPONENT
.Mga5ttv;.        .:$ is.se-, ; as* REP./
'                                                                                                                        *1 ' (-     '-)        
26oO0
- 3831'                                                                                                                                             --                                 3831'-
NBOYAUK
NIS~ KHISOS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SIFNE ,
__                                 I \ 0   0  OVACIK                  AL ACATI        .7
L-AACATI DAM
-FTUidKKoY
38l15'           EX5l W StAISW                                                                                      )     \%38015
-   EX~ISTING WASTEWATE TRANSMISSION O4NE
''  -    PROJCTWASTEWATERTRANSMISSIONLINE   ,
0   O MP STA:ION JCPt WORKS FINANCED BY llRBA 'ANK)
C1    HEADER TANK (EXISTING)
PPojECT rINANCEDNEwORKAREA
MOT FINANaD NETWORK AREA                                                           S
EXISTING NETWORK AREA                      .
rW C  PROJECrAREA                                         0   2  4  6  8  10                                                            This snp was prduced by the Map Dnsig Un of The WMd BA.   
>[                    STLEMENTCENTER                        .                    LOMETERs                                                                 bh  nodthas, -pconors pds  -nth.o nodrprofy atir ish.aWalon 87
26030               -       ~~~~~~~~G-op, any judgeseot. othe legal Vtatu a(ay tn-itosY, or any  '0
_' -   26o30                4,     rndorsement or acceptance of .uc -boundaries.



-                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 29346
;4S~~~~~~~~~4
tz~~~~~~~~~~~FBUR  9



