SOUTHWEST COAST ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR (E6ME-ALA(,ATI AND
SURROUNDING AREA
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                          E- 297
1.0  INTRODUCTION                                                            1-1
1.1   Terms of Reference                                               1-1
1.2   Objectives of the Environmental Assessment                       1-1
2.0   POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK                             2-1
2.1   The World Bank Policy and Requirements                           2-1
2.2   Relevant Turkish Legislation                                     2- 1
2.3   International Treatles Signed by Turkey                          2- 6
2.4   Related EU Directives                                            2- 7
3.0   PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                                    3- 1
3.1   Objectives of the Project                                        3- 1
3.2   Project Overview                                                 3- 1
3.3   Wastewater Collection, Treatment and Disposal Systems            3- 3
3.3.1  Alacati Wastewater Treatment Plant                        3- 3
3.3.2  Population and Loadings                                   3- 5
3.3.3  Santiye District Wastewater System                        3- 6
3.4   Water Supply System                                              3- 7
3.4.1  Current Supply and Projected Demand                       3- 7
3.4.2  Aquifer Protection Works                                  3- 9
3.4.3  Leakage Control and Improvements to the Networks          3- 9
3.4.4  Closure of Private Wells                                  3- 9
3.5   Solid Waste Collection and Disposal                              3- 9
3.5.1  (;e§me-Alaqati Sanitary Landfill                          3- 9
3.6   Pre-Construction Activities                                      3-12
3.6.1  Land Acquisition                                         3-12
3.6.2  Planning and Liaison                                     3-12
3.6.3  Public Relations                                         3-13
3.7   Construction Activities                                          3-13
3.7.1  General                                                  3-13
3.7.2  Wastewater Systems                                       3-13
3.7.3  Water Supply                                             3-14
3.7.4  Solid Waste Sytems                                       3-14
3.8   Operation and Maintenance                                        3-14
3.9   Timescale                                                        3-14



4.0   DESCRIPTION OF THE BASEIUNE ENVIRONMENT                              4- 1
4.1   The Study Area                                                 4- 1
4.2   Physical Environment                                           4- 1
4.2.1  Geology                                                 4- 1
4.2.2  Soils                                                   4- 2
4.2.3  Climate                                                 4- 2
4.2.4  Surface Water and Wastewater                            4- 3
4.2.5  Groundwater                                             4- 3
4.2.6  Topography                                              4- 5
4.2.7  Landscape                                               4- 5
4.3   Biological Environment                                         4- 5
4.3.1 Terrestrial Ecology                                      4- 5
4.3.2  Aquatic Ecology                                         4- 6
4.3.3  Protected Areas and Species                             4- 6
4.3.4  Species of Commercial Importance                        4- 7
4.4   Socio-Cultural Environment                                     4- 8
4.4.1  Population and Community Structure                      4- 8
4.4.2  Land Use                                                4- 8
4.4.3  Future Development                                      4- 9
4.4.4  Employment                                              4-10
4.4.5  Cultural Environment                                    4-10
4.4.6  Public Health                                           4-12
4.4.7  Public Attitudes                                        4-12
5.0   POTENTIAL IMPACT OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT                             5-1
5.1  Impacts of 4e§me-Alaqati Wastewater System                      5- 1
5.1.1  Alacati Wastewater Treatment Plant                      5- 1
5.1.2  Wastewater Collection Systems                           5- 3
5.1.3  Santiye District Wastewater System                      5- 4
5.1.4  Impact of Retention Time and Generation of H2S          5- 4
5.2  Impacts of Water Supply System                                  5- 5
5.3  Impacts of Solid Waste System                                   5- 6
5.3.1  Sanitary Landfill Site                                  5- 6
5.3.2  Rehabilitation of Existing Dump Sites                   5- 8
5.4   Summary of Impacts and Benefits                                5- 8
6.0   ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES TO THE PROPOSED PROJECT                     6- 1
6.1   The Do-Nothing Option                                          6- 1
6.2   Alternative Wastewater Collection and Treatment Options        6- 1
6.2.1  Option 1- Two Separate Collection and Treatment Systems  6- 2
6.2.2  Option 2- One Combined System with a Treatment Plant at
(;e§me                                                   6- 2
6.2.3  Alternative Levels of Treatment                         6- 3
6.2.4  Temporary Treatment of Septic Tank Waste                6- 3
6.2.5  Alternative Sites for Qe5me Wastewater Treatment Plant  6- 4



6.2.6  Alternative Sites for Alacati Treatment Plant            6- 4
6.2.7  Alternative Treatment Processes                          6- 4
6.3   Alternative Water Supply Options                                6- 5
6.4   Alternative Solid Waste Options                                 6- 5
6.4.1  Alternative Treatment and Disposal Methods               6- 5
6.4.2  Alternative Landfill Sites                               6- 6
6.4.3  Transfer Station Option                                  6- 8
6.5   Costs of Alternative Options                                     6- 8
7.0   MITIGATION AND MONITORING ACTION PLAN                                  7-1
7.1   Proposed Mitigation Measures                                    7-1
7.1.1  Alacati Wastewater Treatment Plant                       7- 1
7.1.2  Wastewater Systems                                       7- 1
7.1.3  Water Supply System                                      7- 2
7.1.4  Solid Waste System                                       7- 2
7.2   Proposed Monitoring Arrangements                                 7- 3
7.3  Implementation and Resourcing                                     7- 4
8.0   ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL REQUIREMENTS
8.1   Existing Institutions and Environmental Responsibilities         8- 1
8.2   Recommendations for Institutional Change                         8- 1
8.3   Training Needs                                                   8- 2
9.0  INTER-AGENCY CO-ORDINATION AND PUBLIC PARTICIPATION                     9- 1
10.0  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                        10-1
11.0  LIST OF REFERENCES AND BIBLIOGRAPHY                                    11-1
APPENDICES
A.   Assessment Preparers.
B.   Records of Inter-agency and Public/NGO Communications.
C.   Data and Unpublished Reference Documents.



a



-:,.~ ~ ALAe?,T
- oIZMI
*- CfIJML
:~~~~~~~ 






EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.0 INTRODUCTION
This Report presents an Enviromnental Assessment (EA) of the Southwest Coast
Environmental Project Feasibility Study for (e§me-Alaati. and Surrounding Area. The EA
has comprised a Category B level analysis in accordance with The World Bank Operational
Directive OD 4.01. In addition, a full EIA study for a sanitary landfill was prepared and
approved by the Ministry of Environment. Following review of the Feasibility Study, as the
scheme proceeds to detailed design and tender preparation, further EA studies may be
required which meet the requirements of Turkish Regulations.
It should be noted that, for consistency, the Drawings, Figures and Photographs referred to
in this Report have the same designation numbers as the Main Study Report.
2.0 POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
There are a number of laws that have been established in Turkey to control industry and
development and protect the environment. The Environment Law (1983) sets a general
environmental protection framework but relies on a number of subsequent sets of
regulations for implementation. These regulations include the Water Pollution Control
Regulations (1988), the Solid Waste Control Regulation (1991), the Clinical Waste Control
Regulation (1993), the Hazardous Waste Regulations (1995) and the EIA Regulations
(1993). An EIA report was required under the latter for the solid waste component of the
Project.
3.0   PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The key objective of the Project is to improve the delivery of the basic urban services of
water supply, sewerage, wastewater treatment and solid waste collection and disposal in the
Municipalities of Qe5me and Alacati by a scheme which is financially affordable,
environmentally sustainable and has the required institutional framework.   The
Municipalities are located on the Karaburun Peninsula on the Aegean coast of Turkey,
approximately 80km west of Izmir, (See Figure 1.1). The area is important for tourism and
is linked to Izmir by a new 6 lane motorway. A new airport is under construction to the
south-east of Alacati.
3.1   Wastewater Component
The present wastewater system for most of the area consists of septic tanks, effectively
operating as holding tanks, which are emptied regularly by tanker and the sewage discharged
at a number of locations resulting in severe localised impacts. Only the town of Alacati and
the seasonal summer housing area of Santiye (on the coast north of Alacati) have piped
collection systems.  These systems have physical problems and discharge untreated
wastewater into streams.
i



In an attempt to alleviate the present problems, separate sewerage systems are under
construction to serve (e§me and Alagati. The Iller Bank funded work has proceeded slowly
since 1989 and, to date, main trunk sewers, two pumping stations (buildings only), and two
1300m long sea outfalls have been completed. The current programme will not see the
systems operational until at least the end of 1999.
The Phase 1 scheme proposed under this Study, has been developed to gain maximum
benefit from the investment already made by achieving an operating system as soon as
possible and would use the maximum affordable Municipality funds to:-
*    provide preliminary treatment (6mm screening and grit removal) initially at the new
pumping stations, then later at the Alagati treatment works, with possible uprating
to primary or secondary treatment in Phase 2 if and when required;
*    construct secondary sewers in a phased programme commencing with priority areas;
*    install mechanical and electrical works into the new pumping stations;
*    construct additional area pumping stations and main collectors; and
*    as an immediate improvement, renovate the pumping stations in 5antiye and improve
the present discharge point of the Uantiye system on Istanbul Hill.
The scheme, as proposed in this Study, would initially utilise the existing Alaqati outfall into
the Aegean Sea, which has been designed in accordance with the Turkish Water Pollution
Control Regulations.
The previously proposed site for the (e§me wastewater treatment works is situated in the
centre of a broad valley to the north-west of the village of Ovacik, in an area of good
agricultural land. The site is readily accessed and, with the exception of a few isolated
farms, far from residential areas. Alternative sites have been considered in this Study and
one nearby, in a less valuable agricultural area has been suggested. The proposed future
Alaqati wastewater treatment works is sited in an isolated rocky upland area at a distance
from residential areas and presently covered with scrub vegetation.
3.2   Water Supply Component
Since 1992, water supply to the area has been supplied mainly from the Ildir Springs to the
north-east of Ildir Bay, together with a number of small wells located around the
Municipality. The Ildir source is, however, becoming affected by saline intrusion caused by
over-pumping. Protection of this aquifer is of key importance. Some of the other wells,
which are not generally very deep, suffer contamination from the present method of sewage
disposal in the area.
An additional water supply source should be available from 1999, with the completion of
the Kutlu Aktas Dam and treatment plant, which impounds a small catchment to the east
of Alacati. The dam started filling in February 1996, and the treatment works, pumping
station and link into the network should start construction in early 1997. The distribution
system is otherwise in place. Once the dam source is conumissioned, the projected demand
should be met from existing sources until at least 2020.
.i.



In addition to the provision of treatment facilities for the dam water, the proposed scheme
will aim to provide protection to the Ildir aquifer and to improve the yield from this major
source. Initially it is proposed to sink exploratory boreholes and build up monitoring data
on the extent of the aquifer and the groundwater quality. A measure which is known to be
effective in reducing saline intrusion is to provide an impervious curtain wall between the
sea and the freshwater aquifer. Trial grouting of concrete at chosen locations will provide
the necessary parameters to design the permanent grout walling. Some of the existing wells
at Ildir will be relocted to improve their yield.
A number of relatively small but important local improvements to the supply network and
leakage control measures will also be carried out in Phase 1.
33    Solid Waste Component
Solid waste in the area has historically been disposed of at two unlined landfill sites, one
2km south-east of e§rme, the other 4km east of Alacati. Waste disposal at the latter ceased
in 1992, when construction of the nearby Alacati Dam commenced, and therefore all waste
from the area is currently disposed of at the (;e§me dump.
Following consideration of the various options available for solid waste management the
following scheme has been proposed. A sanitary landfill would be developed at a new, flat
and easily accessed site, 8 km south of Ce§me and 4 km south-west Alacati, to the south of
the new Izmir motorway. There are no residential areas within a 1 km radius of the site.
The site would be designed as a 800,000m3 capacity sanitary landfill to take waste arisings
from the Municipalities until the year 2020. The landfill site will be a fully engineered
facility with a range of environmental controls, including:-
*    low permeability liner;
*    leachate drainage system and on-site treatment plant when necessary;
*    surface water cut-off trenches;
-    passive landfill gas ventilation and dispersion; and
3    phased restoration to open space.
The proposed landfill site has been agreed by the two Municipalities. It was located in what
was designated as a Natural Protection Zone. However, procedures are underway to
redesignate this area for use as a landfill.
The Project would also include pilot waste separation, recycling and composting plants at
the proposed sanitary landfill site and remedial works at the existing Ce§me landfill site.
Future developments which might be required in Phase 2 could include the construction of
additional phases of the landfill and extensions of recycling and/or composting schemes.
iii



3.4   Project Implementation
All land required for the Project is under public ownership except for parts of the previously
proposed ;e§me wastewater treatment works site. No land acquisition problems are
envisaged.
Planning and liaison will be carried out throughout the design process, co-ordinated by the
two Municipalities through their local councils. In addition, public consultation, which has
already started, should be continued by the Municipalities to inform the public of the
benefits of the Project and keep them informed of construction activities.
In accordance with local requirements, construction activities in coastal and tourist areas will
not be undertaken, where avoidable, during the summer tourist season. Construction of the
preliminary wastewater treatment facilities is scheduled to commence in 1998 for a duration
of 3 years. Providing funds are available, construction of the sanitary landfill is also
proposed to commence in 1998 for a shorter period. Aquifer protection works at Ildir will
commence after investigations and grouting trials, scheduled to commence in 1997.
4.0 DESCRIPTION OF THE BASELINE ENVIRONMENT
The Study Area for the Project is defined as that area of the Karaburun Peninsula within
the combined Municipalities of Ce§me and Alacati and the villages of Reisdere and
Germiyan.
lThe majority of the population and tourism developments are located along the northern
coast from the small port town of (;e§me in the west to Eifne in the east. The southern
coast is generally undeveloped. The old town of Alagati lies in the middle of the peninsula.
The geology of the area is basically platform type continuous carbonate overlain by
quaternary sediments. The proposed landfill is bordered by sedimentary rocks but situated
entirely on volcanic Pliocene aged tuffs. An area of high quality agricultural land is located
south of (;e§me and west of the village of Ovacik.
There are no major sources of surface water in the vicinity of any of the Project sites and
the landfill will not be situated within any surface or groundwater protection zones.
Existing discharges to the marine environment include diffuse inputs from septic tank
soakaways via groundwater and surface watercourses from small package treatment plants
at summer holiday facilities, from boat and shipping discharges and from Municipal sources
such as Istanbul Hill (via 5ifne stream) and Alacati Bay. In general, microbiological water
quality problems are localised and probably associated with relatively small untreated
sewage discharges. Monitoring data indicate that eutrophication is not a significant factor
in the region.
The landscape of the area is generally of moderate to high quality, characterised by a series
of rocky headlands and sandy bays.  Inland, the peninsula is gently undulating and
predominantly rural in character. The more rocky upland areas are generally vegetated by
scrub and rough grassland; in the lower valleys agriculture predominates. Tree cover is
iv



limited.
The northern coast between Qe§me and aifne is substantially developed and the character
of this area must be considered as urban. The architectural and aesthetic quality of the
tourist areas is variable. The towns of Ce§me and Alacati have more architectural interest,
with a number of attractive old areas.
The vegetation of the Study Area generally comprises plants characteristic of arid land, such
as olive trees, spring shrubs and wild grasses. None of the areas of land required for the
Project are of significant nature conservation value. The marine ecology is typical of semi-
enclosed seas at this latitude, with relatively low species diversity and abundance. Within
the coastal zone there are no designated shell fisheries, although there are some small
commercial and recreational fishery activities.
A large part of the Study Area has recently been designated as a Natural Protection Zone
in an attempt to control further uncontrolled development. Ildir village has been designated
as a 1st Degree Archaeological Protection Zone. There are several other protected areas
within the Study Area, but they will be avoided by the development.
The influx of Turkish holidaymakers and foreign tourists in the summer months increases
the current resident population of around 20,000 more than five times. The total summer
population is projected to increase by about 45% by 2005 and to double by 2020 to around
217,000.
The future development of the area will continue to depend extensively on the tourist and
leisure industry. Tourism, agriculture and trade will therefore form the main economy of
the region. The main industrial and commercial activities will relate almost exclusively to
servicing the tourist industry.
5.0 POTENTIAL IMPACT OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT
5.1   Wastewater Component
The potential impacts of the construction and operation of the wastewater collection and
treatment system will be as follows:-
*    increase in wastewater discharged to the Aegean Sea and localised adverse impact
on marine ecology;
*    improvement to water quality, ecology and aesthetics at Istanbul Hill and other
locations where wastewater is presently discharged or overflows;
*    protection against cross-contamination between the sewage pumping main and main
water transmission pipeline on Istanbul Hill;
*    significant beneficial impact on groundwater quality and public health;
*    adverse visual impact of wastewater treatment works;
*    localised impacts such as construction noise; dust emissions; disruption to vehicular
and pedestrian traffic;
*    temporary construction phase ecological disturbance at Alacati wastewater treatment
v



works site;
*    possible occasional localised odour emissions from treatment works and pumping
stations;
*    generation of 20 to 30 jobs for local people during the construction period; and
*    opportunity to enhance appearance of pumping stations and immediate surroundings
by townscape improvements.
5.2 Water Supply Component
The potential impacts of the proposed aquifer protection works and extensions to the water
supply network will be as follows:-
*    improvement in potable water quality as a result of reduced saline intrusion into the
Ildir source and more effective disinfection;
*    improved water quality and quantities as a result of commissioning of the new
Alacati Dam water source with its treatment plant and relocated wells at Ildir;
*    improvements in the management and conversation of groundwater resources;
*    possible effects on groundwater flows and marine water quality through a change in
salinity;
*    temporary localised noise, dust, traffic and visual impacts associated with construction
works; and
*    limited but possible adverse impact on archaeology at Ildir.
5.3   Solid Waste
The potential impacts of the proposed sanitary waste landfill will be as follows:
*    significant benefit of more efficient and environmentally controlled solid waste
management system;
*    loss of soils and need for importation of suitable topsoil for site restoration;
*    alteration to topography of the immediate area, however the final landform will not
be visible from any residential areas;
*    potential for windblown litter;
*    loss of ecological habitat and a small number of olive trees of local significance;
*    slight noise impacts to site workers;
*    small risk of vermin and insects;
*    potential for dust generation;
*    noise and other disturbance at the site during construction phase;
*    impacts from traffic entering and exiting the site;
*    generation of odours from putrescing wastes in open vehicles during hot weather; and
*    impact of contaminated run-off entering groundwater or surface waters.
6.0 ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES TO THE PROPOSED PROJECT
The do-nothing option for C(e§me and Alacati would mean that the present programme of
Iller Bank funded schemes would continue at a very slow rate. The slower implementation
of a piped sewerage network would result in slower phasing out of the existing septic tank
vi



system, and worsening of the existing problems. The water quality of the Ildir source would
further deteriorate and in the medium term the area would probably experience supply
problems. Solid waste collection and disposal would continue as at present with gradual
worsening of the current environmental impacts, particularly in the summer.
The Iller Bank scheme, which has been partly constructed, is planned to provide for primary
and secondary treatment at both the Ce§me and Alacati treatment works. Following a
review of projected loadings over the planning horizon to 2020 and modelling of the water
quality that would be achieved at the outfalls already in place, it has been concluded that
preliminary treatment only would meet the required water quality standards in the short
term (Phase 1).
To eliminate the current discharges of septic tank waste from tankers at numerous sites
around the peninsula, an option was considered to construct centres for the treatment and
disposal of these wastes. It was rejected on grounds of economics and of unacceptable
environmental impact.
The locations available for both the Qe5me and Alacati wastewater treatment works were
limited by the fact that main sewers and outfalls had already been constructed. Three
alternative sites were investigated in Qe§me and the preferred option was selected on the
criteria of land availability and environmental factors. For the Ce§me site an area of less
agricultural value was found.
Options for alternative water supplies are extremely limited since capital investment has
already taken place at the Ildir Springs and the Alacati Dam. The only alternative to
aquifer protection work at Ildir would be to decrease the volume of water abstracted, which
is not viable if demand is to be met.
Those alternative solid waste treatment/disposal methods considered as part of the Study
were recycling, composting, sanitary landfill and incineration. The latter was rejected for
economic and environmental reasons and because of the low calorific value of waste in the
area. The future feasibility of recycling and composting will be assessed by pilot projects.
Nine alternative locations for the sanitary landfill were investigated and the preferred site
selected on criteria of capacity, access, location, and least environmental sensitivity.
The use of transfer stations for waste collection was considered but not pursued as no
economic benefit could be demonstrated by their use at this time.
7.0   MITIGATION AND MONITORING ACTION PLAN
An Action Plan of mitigation measures will be drawn up. It will also be necessary for a
formal Monitoring Plan to be prepared, so that the environmental effects of the Project are
adequately controlled by the proposed mitigation measures, and to give a quantitative
assessment of the level of environmental benefit resulting from Project implementation.
The mitigation measures to be adopted include the scheduling of construction work outside
vii



the summer tourist season; use of noise attenuation screens and ear defenders; undertaking
aesthetic improvements and landscaping at visible sites; liaison with local residents; taking
measures to avoid fuel and chemical spillages; minimising tree felling and loss of agricultural
land; implementing dust control measures; providing litter fencing and vermin control at the
sanitary landfill; restriction of construction and waste transfer traffic to suitable routes and
normal working hours; provision, operation and maintenance of effective leachate and
landfill gas control systems; and carrying out extensive groundwater monitoring at Ildir.
Given the importance of tourism and associated bathing and water-based recreation in the
area, a formalised rationale for routine water quality monitoring is needed. This will
provide a useful database for evaluating the levels of water quality improvement associated
with the overall Project, and form the basis of an EU sampling protocol in line with the
European Bathing Waters Directive. This would allow an accurate assessment of possible
future compliance should Turkey join the EU and adopt its legislation.
Detailed monitoring protocols should be formulated during the detailed design stage in
consultation with the Ministries of Tourism, Environment, Agriculture and Forests; and the
Qe§me and Alacati Municipalities. These should then be assimilated into an overall
strategic Monitoring Plan for the Project which would be reviewed annually by all
concerned.
8.0 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL REQUIREMENTS
A review of the current environmental controls and monitoring responsibilities in (;e§me-
Alacati has been carried out. Recommendations are made to ensure that the Municipality
service delivery organisation is in a position to adequately monitor operational performance
in supplying potable water and collecting, treating and disposing of wastewater and solid
wastes generated. Such monitoring will also help ensure that the existing and new Project
infrastructure will be maintained properly, thereby extending its effective lifespan.
Proposals are made to ensure the continued involvement in the regulatory role of the Sub-
Provincial Health Departments and the Provincial Environmental Directorate of the
Ministry of the Environment.
9.0 INTER-AGENCY CO-ORDINATION AND PUBLIC/NGO PARTICIPATION
Consultation and meetings have been held with all Government authorities and the relevant
NGOs in the e§rme-Alaqati area and their views and concerns taken full account of during
the Feasibility Study. A questionnaire survey of local people indicated a low opinion of
potable water quality and a belief that the most serious environmental problems in the area
were due to increasing urbanisation and the inadequacy of infrastructure services.
Public meetings were held in Qe5me Municipality in July and September 1996 and February
1997, to enable a debate on the relevant aspects of the water, wastewater and solid waste
disposal proposals.
viii



10.0 CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
The Southwest Coast Environmental Project will significantly improve the present
arrangements for water supply, wastewater collection and disposal and solid waste
management in the Municipalities of ;e§me and Alagati and bring a number of
environmental benefits to the area. The negative impacts of the Project components will
generally be of low significance, relating mainly to short-term construction phase impacts.
In conclusion, the Southwest Coast Environmental Project in Qe5me - Alacati and their
Surrounding Area should proceed as a matter of urgency. With the adoption of the
proposed mitigation and monitoring plans, the Project should not have any significant
adverse impacts.
It should be noted that the final analysis of Municipality affordability of the proposed
infrastructure for solid waste and wastewater components of the Project will dictate the
exact content and programme of implementation of the works discussed in this EA Report.
ix



I



1.0  INTRODUCTION
1.1   Terms of Reference
The Terms of Reference for the Environmental Assessment (EA) of the Southwest Coast
Environmental Project are contained in Section F of the Consultant's Brief. They require
the preparation of an Environmental Assessment Report (EAR) which meets The World
Bank's requirements for a Category B investment project, as well as any relevant
requirements of the Turkish Government. A Category B project is defined as one where
more limited environmental analysis is appropriate, as the project may have specific
environmental impacts. The information required by Section F of the Consultant's Brief is
provided in the following Sections.
In carrying out this EA, reference has also been made to the requirements of The World
Bank Operational Directive OD4.01, of October 1991, entitled "Environmental Assessment",
and the Environmental Assessment Sourcebook published by the World Bank Environment
Department (Technical Papers 139 and 140) in 1991.
The Project is currently at the stage of a Feasibility Study. This Study is appraising various
alternative options and recommending a set of technical and institutional/financial proposals
and a programme for implementation. Following review of the Feasibility Study by the
Ministry of Tourism and the Municipalities, and agreement of a preferred scheme and
programme, the scheme will proceed to detailed design and tender preparation, at which
stage further EA studies may be required.
The EAR, at this stage, discusses the potential environrnental impacts of the preferred
options, and also presents a comparative review of the impacts of alternatives which have
been considered during the Feasibility Study, to meet short and long term objectives.
1.2   Objectives of the Environmental Assessment
The objective of this EA is to ensure that the proposed Project defined in the Feasibility
Study will be environmentally sustainable. This is achieved through the identification of
negative environmental effects, if any, of the Project, and the incorporation of mitigation
measures into the Project design to address all such concerns. It is a component of the
Project Feasibility Study required for appraisal by The World Bank. The EAR has however
been produced as a stand-alone document to facilitate inter-agency co-ordination and to be
available to address the concerns of local Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and
the public.
1-1



T j- ji I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' &Y <
_!   |!   L  $,  i  | |S _I I .g . t  71
AUub    |||   
--.,~~~~~~~~~~~.Pa d,                                               A" 
SACf.AAS
-=-s^<3,,AD 
X,  L  -I       I-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
|  |  i  t§');i  i  I  f  I  I ''  i  |  1  1  ; r@   W  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' M
F 7 - g   {  {   ,  -    S  t -  f  S  I  !  !  f  ;'l  P o e  lea L c to     _
t(Eil    EA13  t-E    P4   li-20  i_I_  'ersilslan,             -. _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
i  I  d'  I  i~~1 4':, I  jt                     '   ,  I  I   Ii        j  :'V



2.0 POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
2.1   The World Bank Policy and Requirements
The World Bank's policy and requirements for EA are set out in Operational Directive OD
4.01, of October 1991. The Directive gives a sample outline of a project-specific EAR, and
a checklist of potential issues to be included in an EA. These have both been used in the
course of this Study. The Directive also states that Category B projects normally require
more limited analysis than a full EA. The present Study therefore has comprised a
preliminary investigation of potential effects and has focused only on those issues considered
potentially significant.
22   Relevant Turkish Legislation
lTere are a number of laws that have been established in Turkey to organise activities such
as industrial development, tourism, navigation and transportation, and fisheries in various
sectors in the coastal strip. The laws that would relate in some manner to the development
of water supply, sewerage and wastewater treatment, and solid waste disposal are discussed
below.
2.2.1 Coastal Law No. 3621 (4.4.1990, Amendment 1.7.1992)
The objective of this law is to set out the principles for the protection -of the sea and coastal
areas whilst paying attention to the natural and cultural characteristics and allowing their
utilisation for the public benefit. The law provides a definition for the "shoreline" but,
although the location of the shore edge is important for managing development, its
definition is not exact.
The law states that it is illegal to excavate on the coast and mine for sand. However, the
construction of marine related infrastructure, treatment plants, pumping stations and
buildings which cannot be located on land, is permitted. Apart from these developments,
no other building is allowed in the first 50m from the shore, which is restricted for
"pedestrian access, walking, relaxing, sight-seeing and recreational purposes".
Responsibility for enforcement of the Coastal Law is given to the municipalities within their
borders and in their annexed areas, and to the Provincial Governors in the remaining areas.
The final authority for planning in these areas is generally the Ministry of Public Works and
Settlements (MPWS), unless the area is declared a tourism centre in which case authority
is transferred to the Ministry of Tourism.
2.2.2 Environment Law No. 2872 (9.8.1983), Water Pollution Control Regulation (Official
Gazette No. 19919 of 4.9.1988) and EIA Regulation (Official Gazette No. 21489 of 7.2.1993)
The Environmental Law sets out the framework for general environmental issues but
depends on the subsequent Regulations for implementation. The relevant articles are as
follows.
2-1



Article 8 refers to the Water Pollution Control (WPC) Regulations which cover various
issues related to pollution of coastal waters. Article 14 of these regulations classifies coastal
and seas waters according to their dominant use, whereas Article 15 provides water quality
criteria for sea water. Rules and regulations concerning wastewater discharges from
Municipalities are given in Articles 26, 27 and 32, whilst procedures and criteria for
discharging sewage to the sea by outfall are given in Articles 33 to 42.
A Metropolitan Municipality, or the most senior local governor elsewhere, is responsible for
permitting a sea outfall. However, the opinions of the Provincial (Iller) Bank and approval
of the Ministry of Environment must be sought. The latter is authorised for the necessary
controls on water quality, whilst local Governors, the Ministry of Health and Social Security,
Metropolitan Municipalities and Municipalities, and harbour masters are able to carry out
controls within their jurisdictions.
Article 10 of the law states that "organisations, companies and establishments, who may
cause envirominental problems through activities they plan to carry out, are required to
prepare an environmental impact assessment (ELA) report".
The EIA regulations provide a list of projects for which EIA reports are required, outline
the contents of the report and describe the authority and procedure for their approval.
Under the EIA regulations the development of a sea outfall and treatment facilities requires
a preliminary EIA study. If the study shows that the environmental impact of the project
may be significant, then a full EIA report should be prepared.- However, if the development
is in an environmentally sensitive area then a full ELA report is automatically required for
those projects that would have been subjected to a preliminary EIA. Environmentally
sensitive areas include: "national parks" defined under National Parks Law (9.8.1983);
"natural assets"; "specially protected areas" (see Section 2.2.5 below); coasts near the
production areas of living resources as defined under the Fisheries Law (see Section 2.2.4
below); and "historical and natural sites" (see Section 2.2.8 below).
The WPC regulations set out the legal and technical aspects required to protect water
supplies and groundwater. They also cover issues such as treated effluent reuse. Technical
standards and general criteria for treatment facilities, limitations on septic tank usage and
treated effluent reuse are set out in the Communique on Technical Procedures (Official
Gazette No. 20748 of 7.1.1991).
The following aspects are also included in the Environmental Law:-
*    waste concepts;
*    approval for operations;
*    pollution prevention fund;
*     administrative penalties;
*     incentives; and
*     application to administrative authorities to cease activities.
2-2



2.23  Water Products Law No. 1380 (223.1971) Amendment 3288 (15.5.86)
This law has several subsequent amendments and regulations. It relates to the obtaining
of water products from the seas and inland waters and the protection of these water
products from harm.
2.2A Fisheries Law No. 6831 (223.1971, Amendments 15.5.1986)
This law covers the protection, exploitation, production and control of living resources. It
prohibits the dumping of substances into, or adjacent to, production areas in the sea which
may cause harm to the living resource, or to the people who catch or consume them, or to
the vehicles, gears and tools which are used to catch or consume them.
2.2.5 Specially Protected Areas
The Council of Ministers' Decree of 19.10.1989 set up the Agency for Specially Protected
Areas (SPA). The agency has responsibility for solving environmental problems, protect the
environmental assets, establish plans for the protection and utilisation in these areas, and
revise and approve plans of all scales and planning decisions. In 1994 there were twelve
SPAs, nine of them being located in the coastal region.
22.6 Law of Special Environmental Protection Institution
Activities of all kinds of certification and organisation in regions declared to be Special
Environmental Protection Areas are left to special environmental institutions and boards
by this Law. In these areas, powers and duties of municipalities are transferred to these
institutions and boards.
2.2.7 Bylaw on Establishment and Duties of the Ministry of Environment
This Bylaw includes establishment of the:-
-    Ministry of Environment;
*    Higher Board of Environment;
*    Council of Environment;
*    Central Board of Environment; and
*    Provincial Board of Environment.
In order to fulfil duties and responsibilities given to the State by the 1982 Constitution on
environmental protection and development, the Ministry of Environment was established
in Turkey. Types of organisations such as General Directorate, Under Secretary and State
Secretary for Environmental Subjects were tested prior to the Ministry of Environment, and
a significant step was taken to fulfil duties in Article 2 of the regulation of establishment
with the organisation, staff and financial sources allocated by the State.
Article 2 also gives the duty of taking necessary measures for wastes, residues and fuels,
defining the waste management policy of the country and providing the necessary
2-3



organisation, to the Ministry of Environment and to the Boards established by this bylaw.
2.2.8 Law for Protection of Cultural and Natural Heritage No. 2863 (21.7.1983)
This law defines all items of cultural and natural heritage which must be protected, as well
as the means for protection. Cultural heritage is defined as "all mobile and immobile items,
on land, underground or underwater, which reflect science, culture, religion and fine arts of
historical and prehistorical periods. " Natural heritage is defined as " assets on land or water,
which belong to geological, prehistorical or historical periods, and which need to be
protected because of their scarcity or their character and attractions". Some coastal sites
have been designated as "natural sites" according to this law and restrictions to build on
them are enforced.
2.2.9  Solid Waste Control Regulation
The first version of the regulation was published in the Official Gazette No. 20814 dated
14 March 1991 and legalised. The legal basis of the regulation is in the Law of
Environrment No. 2872 and the Decree on Establishment of the Ministry of Environment.
The Solid Waste Control Regulation is only an administrative regulation, it is not a Law of
Waste and is not stated clearly in the Law of Environment. Therefore, it is not possible to
apply sanctions. The Regulation was amended on 2 November 1994 (Official Gazette No.
22099) and the definitions of concepts like "recycling" and "recovery" were added. It was
also decided to establish a Commnission of Recycling. The Solid Waste Control Regulation
aims to provide for waste management which is in harmony with the environment.
The Regulation aims to reduce the generation of packaging waste by separate collection,
recycling and recovery. Responsibility of these activities was given clearly to the producers.
Each producer is in a quota system based on the return of packaging materials. Producers
who cannot reach this quota should charge a deposit on their packaging to collect it.
The Recycling Commission under the Ministry of Environment defines recycling quotas for
glass, plastic, metal and paper. Quotas were set quite high, but inspection for conformity
to the quota and its practical application is not performed adequately. The main reason is
the lack of basic data. Also, industry is often informed beforehand of inspections.
It is stated in Articles 18-21, that waste disposal not conforming to the rules is forbidden.
Containers should be safe and covered and should not cause any harm to the environment.
Waste transportation vehicles should also conform to the same rules. Industrial and tourism
organisations, outside the borders of a municipality, should undertake the transportation of
their wastes themselves and should deliver their wastes to waste disposal plants constructed
by the municipality. Transfer stations are recommended where they are appropriate for
economical waste transportation.
Also included in the Regulation are aspects concerning:-
*    definition of waste and solid waste;
*    waste terminology;
2-4



*    principles on generation, disposal and incentives;
*    deposit and recycling (quota) application;
*    sanitary landfills; and
*    certification, operation and control of sanitary landfills.
According to the Law of Metropolitan Municipalities, they have the powers for solid waste
disposal, including recycling, and can transfer them to private companies. The Solid Waste
Control Regulation encourages reduction in waste by supporting recycling in general and
by approving the separate collection of recyclable wastes.
In order to form the Recycling Commission, comprising representatives of various industrial
sectors and under the chairmanship of an authorised person from the Ministry of
Environment, a modification was made to the Regulation in September 1994. This
Commission has undertaken a consultancy duty rather than an administrative one, and is
responsible for defining the targets on recycling glass, plastic, metal, paper and similar
materials. The Commission is also responsible for advising the Ministry of Environment
about alternatives of developing separate collection and separation system for recyclable and
recoverable wastes. In accordance with recommendations of the Commission, the Ministry
of Environment has published a bulletin which advised the construction of separation plants
near all new landfills to be constructed in Turkey.
Articles 33-37 of the Regulation recommend the use of compost obtained from previously
separated kitchen and garden wastes. Technical requirements of compost plants having an
annual capacity exceeding 200 tonnes, require filtration of the intake air before release to
the atmosphere, if a ventilation system is used. The cleaning and treatment of discharged
water should be in accordance with the standards specified by the Regulation of Water
Pollution Control. Compost plants should not be constructed on water or groundwater
protection sites and should be at least 1km away from residential areas.
2.2.10 Clinical Waste Control Regulation (20.5.1993)
This Regulation determines the standards on definition, transportation, storage and disposal
of clinical wastes and specifies the penalties in case of non conformity. Perrnission for
construction of clinical waste incinerators is given by Provincial Environment Boards and
approved by the Ministry of Environment as the higher authority. Operating certificates for
clinical waste incinerators and storage plants are given and cancelled by the relevant
municipality in Metropolitan Municipalities.
The Regulation also includes aspects such as definitions of clinical waste and applicable
sanctions.
2.2.11 Hazardous Waste Regulations (August 1995)
Hazardous Waste Regulations developed by the Ministry of Enviromnent were introduced
in August 1995, and include:-
*    controls on the importation of hazardous wastes;
2-5



*    encouragement of the minimisation of hazardous waste at source;
*    requirements for producers to register with, and for collection and disposal
contractors to obtain licences from, the Ministry;
*    continuous "cradle to grave" accountability;
*    powers for the Ministry to:-
-     ensure co-operation and co-ordination;
-     determine waste characteristics and define hazardous waste;
-     approve plans and locations for plant; and
-     establish a conmnission for waste management;
*    powers for Governors to:-
-     ensure waste management plans are applied within their Provinces;
-     convey applications for treatment and disposal plants from municipalities to
the Ministry of Environment; and
-     issue licences to firms operating waste transport in their Province;
*    powers for municipalities to:-
-     develop, or have developed on their behalf, treatment and disposal plants for
hazardous wastes.
2.3  International Treaties Signed by Turkey for Protecting the Mediterranean Sea
Turkey is one of the countries that signed the Agreement on the Protection of the
Mediterranean Sea Against Pollution in Barcelona on 16 February 1976. The agreement
was put into effect in Turkey in 1981 after being issued in the Official Gazette. According
to this agreement, the parties have to take all necessary measures for pollution prevention
and mitigation in order to protect and to improve the aquatic environment in the
Mediterranean Region. They also agree to develop programs for the monitoring of
pollution in the Mediterranean. For the purpose of realising the targets set in the
Agreement, parties shall cooperate in scientific and technical fields and take conmmon
actions in emergency situations arising as a result of excessive pollution.
Within the context of this agreement, Turkey has also signed four protocols. These are:
The Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea from Pollution Caused by
Discharges of Ships and Airplanes, Protocol on the Cooperation and Actions to be Taken
in Extraordinary Situations of Pollution of the Mediterranean Sea by Petroleum and Other
Hazardous Substances, Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea Against Land-
based Pollution (1980) and finally Protocol on the Special Protection Zones in the
Mediterranean Region (1986). The last two protocols were put into effect in Turkey in 1987
and 1988 respectively.
The Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea from Pollution Caused by
Discharges of Ships and Airplanes prohibits the discharge of some materials and residues
2-6



to the Mediterranean Sea. Examples of such types of substances are mercury, cadmium,
radioactive wastes, organohalogen and organosilicon compounds. The discharge of some
substances like arsenic, lead, copper, zinc, chromium and nickel compounds, cyanide,
pesticides and many others listed in Annex 2 of the protocol are subject to special
permission from authorities.
The Protocol on the Cooperation and Actions to be taken in Extraordinary Situations of
Pollution of the Mediterranean Sea by Petroleum and Other Hazardous Substances aim at
developing pollution control systems, emergency plans, continuous monitoring systems and
information exchange systems by establishing a cooperation among Mediterranean countries
for the protection of the Sea against pollution by petroleum and other hazardous substances.
The parties signing the Protocol on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea Against Land
based Pollution agree to take all the measures for the prevention, monitoring and removal
of pollution resulting from discharges from rivers, facilities on the coastal areas, sewage
systems etc. The parties shall protect the protocol area against pollution by the following
substances: halogenated organic compounds, organic phosphorus and tin compounds,
mercury, cadmium, used machine oil, synthetic substances, carcinogenic substances,
radioactive substances. They will also limit the discharge of a list of chemical substances
together with non-biodegradable detergents, raw petroleum, inorganic phosphorus
compounds, pathogenic microorganisms and thermal discharges. The permission for their
discharge will be given according to their composition, the characteristics of the receiving
media and the presence of waste technologies. The parties will formulate and accept
common criteria and standards on sewage systems and sea water quality, and will substitute
pollution creating technologies gradually by environmentally friendly ones.
The Protocol on the Special Protection Zones in the Mediterranean Region is about the
establishment of special protection zones for the protection of areas with biological and
ecological value, the protection of genetic diversity of species, population levels and habitats
and also the protection of areas with scientific, aesthetic, historical, archeological, cultural
and educational value. The parties may come together to set up common targets and
standards for the selection, establishment and management of protection zones.
2.4   Related EU Directives
Given that Turkey has a recent agreement to join the European Customs Union, momentum
is gathering towards the possibility that Turkey may fully join the European Union in the
near future. Therefore, early consideration needs to be given to the potential ramifications
of European Legislation that has a direct bearing on this project. A review of relevant EU
legislation is discussed in this section.
2.4.1 EU Drinking Water Directive
On the 15th July 1980, EU Directive 80/778 was approved relating to the quality of water
intended for human consumption. The water quality targeted for this Project will be the
quality standards set out in the EU Directives. However, until such time as the final
recommended option is installed and operational, the mninimum quality standards are to be
those contained in Turkish Standard TS 266. A comparison of the two standards is given in
Table 2.1.
2-7



Table 2.1    Comparison Between Main Parameters of Turkish and EU Drinking Water
Directives
Parameter    Expression       Guide       Maximum         Guide        Maximum
of Results      Level         Level          Level         Level
l__________                   (Turkish)     (Turkish)        (EU)          (EU)
Colour          Colour           5             50             1            20
Scale                                                            ll
Turbidity        mg/l            5             25             1             10
Odour           Dilution      Normal         Normal           0             2
Number
pH              pH Unit       7.0 to 8.5    6.2 to 9.2    6.5 to 8.5       9.5
Conductivity                    500           1,000          400            -
Iron            mg/l Fe          30             100           50           200
Manganese      mg/l Mn           10             50            zo            50
Calcium         mg/l Ca          75            200           100            -
Magnesium       mg/l Mg          50            150            30            50
Chlorides       mg/l Cl         200            600            25           200
Sulphates      mg/i S04         200            400            25           250
Aluminium       mg/l Al                  -                   0.05            0.2
Nitrates       mg/l NO3                          45           25            50
Nitrites       mg/l NO2                                   _   -              0.1
Total                             -                           60             -
Hardness
Total                            3.5                   -                     0
Organics
Residual         mg/l            0.1           0.5
Chlorine
2-8



The following comments apply:-
Turbidity    This is an aesthetic problem with no health risk.
Colour      An increase in the colour will generally increase the organics.
Odour       Not generally an issue.
Conductivity Increases above 1000 will indicate either salinity problems or increased
hardness of the water.
Iron        This is an aesthetic problem with no health risk.
Manganese  Same comments as iron.
Chlorides   This is a health related issue. Increases above 200 will risk high blood
pressures and increase the corrosion within the pipe networks.
Sulphates   Same comments as iron.
Aluminium   Same comments as iron.
Nitrates    This is a health related issue. For values above 50, drinking should be
prohibited to babies.
Organics    This is a health related issue.
Chlorine    There is no EU limit. The parameters are generally controlled by the
Residual    THM  (trihalo methane) limits.
2.4.2 EU Bathing Water Directive
Key water quality standards that a proposed wastewater treatment plant must achieve are
implemented through the EU Bathing Waters Directive (76/160/EEC). The EU Directive
allows a Member State to designate bathing water areas around its coasts, provided that
they meet certain microbiological and chemical water quality requirements. The designated
bathing water is then sampled routinely throughout the bathing season (which is specific to
the climate of the country).
Under the terms of the EU Directive concerning the quality of bathing water, the following
mandatory or imperative ('I' value) bacteriological standards are stipulated:-
*    2,000 E. coli per 100lI;
10,000 Total Coliforms per 100ml.
2-9



The EU Directive also gives Guideline ('G' value) bacterial levels. These levels are not
mandatory, but are shown below:-
*    100 E. coli per lOOml;
*    500 Total Coliforms per 100ml.
For a bathing beach to be considered compliant, 95% of water samples taken during the
bathing season must have less than or equal to these concentrations of bacteria. In the UK
for example, bathing beaches are generally sampled once per week from May to September,
inclusive. The above standards apply only to the water quality and do not relate to beach
quality or facilities.
Coliform bacteria are not responsible for disease but they are generally accepted as
indicator species of pollution by potential pathogens. The Directive also requires the
monitoring of the pathogens, salmonella and enterovirus. Some chemical parameters are
required to be monitored when inspection of the bathing water indicates that the quality of
the water has deteriorated.
In February 1994, proposals to change the EU Bathing Waters Directive were announced
in Brussels. The objective of these changes is to target the sampling towards specific
indicator bacteria and to remove unnecessary sampling of redundant parameters. The main
changes in the Directive are likely to be the loss of sampling for Total Coliforms and
salmonella. However, sampling for faecal streptococci, which originally only had a guideline
value of 100 per 100 ml, will, in fuiture, also have a mandatory standard of 400 per 100 ml.
2.4.3 The EU Urban Waste Water Treatment Directive
The EU Urban Waste Water Treatment Directive (UWWTD), (91/271/EEC) was agreed
by EU Environment Ministers at the Environment Council on the 18th March 1991. The
Directive was required to be introduced into the national law of member states by June
1993.
Article 3 of the Directive requires that in general all municipalities of more than 15,000
population equivalent (pe) will be provided with urban wastewater collecting systems by
31/12/2000 and by 31/12/2005 for those with a pe of 2000-15,000. If discharges are to be
made to "sensitive areas", as defined in Article 5 of the Directive, then collection systems
for municipalities with more than 10,000 pe should be provided by 31.12.1998.
Article 4 defines the minimum standards of wastewater treatment needed for discharges
from both municipalities and certain industries. The level of treatment required for a
discharge is directly related to the magnitude of the serving municipality and the nature of
the receiving water into which the effluent discharges.
Target compliance dates and treatment types are shown in Table 2.2.
2-10



Table 2.2 - Summary of EU Urban Waste Water Treatment Directive
Population                                    Receiving Water
Equivalent (pe)         Fresh              Estuarine                Coastal
> 150,000           Secondary            Secondary           Secondary
31/12/2000          31/12/2000          31/12/2000 Primary in
"Exceptional Circumstances"
100,000-150,000      Secondary           Secondary           Secondary
31/12/2000          31/12/2000          31/12/2000
15,000-100,000      Secondary            Secondary           Secondary
31/12/2000          31/12/2000          31/12/2000
10,000-15,000        Secondary           Secondary           Secondary
31/12/2005          3V12/2005           31/12/2005
2,000-10,000         Secondary           Secondary           Appropriate
_________________    31/12/2005    31/12/2005          31/12/2005
< 2,000             Appropriate          Appropriate         Appropriate
31/12/2005          31/12/2005          31/12/2005
Under Article 5, the Turkish Government would be required to identify "sensitive areas",
as defined in Annex II of the UWWTD, around the Turkish coast and would then be
required to meet the more stringent requirements for these areas. If so identified, on the
basis of potential eutrophication problems, then secondary treatment would be required
within 7 years. It is possible that Qe§me Bay, may be categorised as sensitive, although the
southern coastal waters would be likely to be a "less sensitive area" in this context.
Under Article 6 of the TJVvWTD for 10,000 to 150,000 pe, derogation from secondary to
primary treatment may be acceptable subject to undertaking "comprehensive studies" that
illustrate the 'high natural dispersion' characteristics of the receiving water so that discharges
will not adversely affect the environment. In this context, primary treatment means a process
in which the BOD5 of the incoming waste water is reduced by at least 20% before
discharge, and that the total suspended solids of the incoming waste water are reduced by
at least 50%. The requirements for secondary treatment performance are as summarised
in Table 2.3 below.
Table 2.3 - UWWTD Requirements for Secondary Treatment
Parameters                  | Concentration       Minimum % of
l____________________ _     Ireduction   (1)
Biochemical oxygen demand (BODS at 200C)          25 mg/l               70-90
without nitrification
Chemical oxygen demand (COD)                      125 mg/l                75
Total suspended solids                           35 mg/l (2)            90 (2)
2-11



Notes:
(1)   Reduction in relation to influent load
(2)   This requirement is optional
There may be potential to argue 'high natural dispersion' on the basis of natural ultra violet
radiation kill in the more southern countries of the EU. However, this has not been tested
and is considered unlikely.
Under Article 8 of the UWWTD (where in exceptional circumstances it can be
demonstrated that more advanced treatment will not produce any environmental benefit)
there may also be potential for the Qe5me-Alaqati plants to consider derogation to primary
treatment when the population is in excess of 150,000 pe. However, again this is considered
unlikely.
As noted in the above Table 2.2, there are set time deadlines for implementation of the
UWW'ID. However, given uncertainties regarding when, or if, Turkey will join the EU, it
is difficult to make definitive conclusions regarding the impact of these deadlines on the
options for Qe§me-Alaqati. It is likely that secondary treatment will be requested, although
there may be potential, given the appropriate studies, to request derogation under Article
6 to primary treatment only up to 2020, thereafter derogation under Article 8.
2.4A Blue Flag Award Criteria
In addition to the EU Bathing Waters Directive, there is one other designation for bathing
beaches in common use; namely the Blue Flag Award. In order to qualify for this award,
a beach must meet the mandatory EU water quality standards and a maximum number of
"guideline criteria" will be taken into account. The beach must also meet a number of other
requirements unrelated to water quality, including adequate litter bins, clean sanitary
facilities with access for the disabled, first aid facilities and dog ban or strict control on dogs.
The European Blue Flag for beaches is awarded annually and is only valid for one year.
2.4.5 EU Directives on Solid Wastes
To regulate the national disposal of solid wastes, a "Waste Framework" was prepared and
issued through Council Directive 75/44/EEC. After three years, to broaden the framework
for control to toxic and hazardous wastes and their prevention, recovery and recycling, a new
"Directive on Toxic and Dangerous Waste" (78/319/EEC) was published. In this Directive,
which is similar to the Turkish Solid and Hazardous Waste Control Regulations, the
responsible party for storage, treatment and disposal of such waste is the producer of the
product and/or the holder or the previous holder of the licence. ("Polluter-pays-principle").
In 1985 and 1986 the EU published the Council Directives on "Beverage Containers"
(85/339/EEC) and "Sewage Sludge" (86/278/EEC). These issues are covered under the
Turkish Solid Waste Control Regulation where recovery of packaging waste, minimisation
of plastic and metal package use, recycling and composting of solid wastes, usage of sewage
2-12



sludge in agriculture, incineration plant technical features, disposal of waste and landfill site
selection are regulated in considerable detail.
2A.6 Outline Design Standards
The Turkish Water Pollution Coastal Regulations do not require specific levels of treatment
to discharges, unlike the Urban Wastewater Treatment Directive and are therefore more
rationally based on the needs of the environment. The degree of treatment prior to
discharge is therefore determined by the requirements of the receiving water.
The bacterial standards required by the Regulations are more stringent by an order of
magnitude than the EU bathing water requirements. Provided these standards can be met
at proposed recreation areas then there is no requirement for other than preliminary
treatment to be provided.
Adoption in future of the Urban Wastewater Treatment Directive will require the ultimate
provision of secondary treatment, although it is presumed that a revised timescale would be
agreed. Designation of an area of high natural disposal (HNDA) which would allow
provision of primary treatment only is considered unlikely.
The formulation of options for the disposal of sewage has therefore been on the basis of:-
*     < 1000 TC/lOml or < 200 FC/100ml at the boundary of proposed
recreation areas;
*    Initial dilutions > 100;
*    Initially only preliminary treatment (fine screening and grit removal) shall be
provided unless the pollution levels in the receiving waters require a higher
standard;
3    Future provision has been made for primary and secondary treatment to meet
the requirements of the UWWTD; and
*    The BOD5 after preliminary treatment will be less than 250 mg/l.
2-13



I



3.0 PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.1   Objectives of the Project
The primary objective of the Project is to improve the delivery of the basic urban services
of water supply, sewerage, wastewater treatment and solid waste collection and disposal in
the Municipalities within the Project Area and to enable the Municipal authorities
concerned to operate these services on a financially and environmentally sustainable basis.
More specifically, the Project would help the Municipal authorities to:-
*    address the needs for water supply, sewerage, wastewater treatment, solid
waste collection and disposal in ways that are financially affordable to these
authorities and represent technically satisfactory least cost solutions;
*    develop new institutional and financial arrangements for the management of
the above services, as well as the possible involvement of private sector
operators in service delivery; and
3    improve the environmental conditions in the Project Area and reduce the risk
of health hazards that could adversely affect the local population and the
tourism industry.
3.2   Project Overview
The Project has been developed following an extensive review of the problems associated
with the water supply, sewerage and wastewater treatment, and solid waste collection and
disposal infrastructure serving the Municipalities of §e§me and Alacati and the nearby
villages of Reisdere and Germiyan. The Study Area is located on the Karaburun Peninsula
on the Aegean coast about 80km west of Izmir. The area is important for tourism and is
connected to Izmir by a new 6-lane motorway. -An airport is currently under construction
to the south-east of Alacati. Development is predominantly around the northern coastal
fringe with the small port town of Ce§me to the west and the town of Alacati located inland
in the centre of the peninsula. The remainder of the peninsula consists of hills which
become steep and rocky in places. Tree cover is limited. (See Figure 1.1).
The present wastewater system for most of the area consists of septic tanks, which effectively
operate as holding tanks which are emptied regularly by tanker, and the sewage discharged
at a number of locations where it has severe localised impacts. Only the town of Alacati
and the seasonal summer housing area of 5antiye (on the coast north of Alacati) have piped
collection systems.  These systems have physical problems and discharge untreated
wastewater into streams. (See Figure 6.1 and Photographs 6.1 to 6.3).
In an attempt to alleviate the present problems, separate sewerage systems are under
construction for both Qe5me and Alacati. The Provinces Bank (Iller Bank) funded work has
proceeded slowly since it was started in 1989 and, to date, main trunk sewers, two pumping
stations (buildings only), and two 1300m long sea outfalls have been completed. Wastewater
3-1



N
-s~~~~~~'"
DALYANKOY
SIFNE
I~~~AI
*1.iI\  BOYALIK                                         1 I ;   ##*
CE$ME   ,+
CE oME                                                  4. IllCA    t   X   +++GERMIYAN
ILICA 
1  4 *s,        °           - 1       S     ? (        0 REISDERE
CIFTLIKKOY   2   a   x,   t   ISTANBUL HILL
ISTANBUL TEPE
5 -,, - APOItE SEPTIC WASTE COLLEOVACION AR
VIDANOR TOPLAMA ALAN . (YALAKACATI
K        E     T     EGE DENIZI     LO IACATI
LEJ    AND        BOALAYI
a,RS EXISTINC SEWERS IN OPERATION                                                                          W
MEVCUT KULLANILAN KANALIZASYON BORULARI          T    K                      D
,_w  APPROXIMATE SEPTIC WASTE COLlECTiON  AREA           PROECT
VIDANJOR TOPLAMA ALANI (YAKLASTK) FO    M            D
.___WASTEWATER PUMPING STATION               W      A     D        F
ATIKSU    TERFI MERKEZI                            VK
SEPTIC TANK WASTE OISPOSAL LOCATION
CttNi           REPUBLIC OF TURKEY MINISTRY OF TOURISK                    N.T.S.   DEC.R.S.
_                     ~~~~~~TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI TURIZM EiAKANLIGI.       DATE          tA7 cwc
PR,,JE      SOUTH WEST COAST ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT.</.v CCt
ActWetr, C orinulaccrril  iild.  FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR C,ES,ME-ALAC,ATI AND SURROUNDING AREA    t/Dt\ Na 00APiDE 
he' urrey Resl?arch Park, AKDENIZ - EGE TURIZM ALTYAPISI KIYI YONETIMI PROJESI.I
| tuqlrld Surry       !llLE,       ,CE,ME-ALA<ATI, VE CEVRESI FIZIBILITE ETLODO.             FIGURE   6.1
nttE     ~EXISTING WASTEWATER OISPOSAL FACILITIES                  cEKLoI
rx Rd Ow. IO,B:0,01,01,2 102(1(1          MEVCUT ATIKSU DE,SARJ TESiSLERI                      rl



Photograinh 6.1
§a ntiye Area - llica
FotO~raf 6.1
-antiye Bblgesi -                                                                                  ;lica
Photogzraph 6.2
-   Alagati Wastewater Draii
Foto4raf 6.2
Alagata Atiksu Drenaji
Sg~~~Q
PhotograDh 6.3                                    -
Wastewater Disposal
at istanbul Hill
Foto4@af 6.3
istanbul Da§inda
Atiksu Tasfiyesi



treatment plants for the two towns are currently being designed by local consultants, with
the present design specification being for secondary biological treatment. The current
programme for the scheme will not see the systems operational until at least the end of
1999, and this depends on funding availability. See Figure 6.3.
After consideration of the existing system and future plans, the Phase 1 scheme proposed
under this Study has been developed to gain maximum benefit from the investment already
made by achieving an operating system as soon as possible. The proposals are therefore to
use the maximum affordable Municipality funds to:-
*    provide preliminary treatment (6mm screening and grit removal) initially at the new
pumping stations then later at the Alaqati treatment works, deferring primary and/or
secondary treatment until they are required;
*    construct secondary sewers in a phased programme commencing with priority areas;
*    install mechanical and electrical works into the new pumping stations;
*    construct additional area pumping stations and main collectors; and
*    as an immediate improvement, renovate the pumping stations in 5antiye and improve
the present discharge point of the Uantiye system on Istanbul Hill (to the north east
of Alacati).
Since 1992, the water supply to the area has come partly from the Ildir Springs to the north-
east and a number of small wells located around the Municipalities. The Ildir source, which
lies east of Ildir Bay is, however, affected by saline intrusion caused by over-pumping.
Protection of this aquifer is of key importance. Some of the other wells, which are not
generally very deep, suffer contamination from the present method of sewage disposal in the
area.
An additional water supply source should be available from 1999, with the completion of
the Kutlu Akta§ Dam, which impounds a small catchment to the east of Alaqati. The dam
started filling in February 1996, but the treatment works for the water has not yet been
constructed. However, a plant, pumping station and link into the network were tendered in
October 1996 and should commence construction in 1997. Funding has been allocated by
the Special Provincial Administration. The distribution system is otherwise in place.
In addition to the provision of treatment facilities for the dam water, the proposed scheme
will aim to provide protection to the Ildir aquifer, and improvement of the yield from Ildir,
together with minor local improvements to the supply network and leakage control
measures.
Solid waste in the area has historically been disposed of at two unlined landfill sites, one
2km south-east of Ce§me, the other 4km east of Alaqati. See Figure 7-1 and Photographs
7.3 and 7.4. Waste disposal at the latter ceased in 1992, when the construction of the nearby
Alacati Dam commenced, and therefore all the waste generated within the Study Area is
currently disposed of at the Qe§me dump. The potential groundwater contamination at the
closed Alagati site and implications for the Alagati Dam water were recognised and in mid
1996, the waste from the abandoned site was removed.
3-2



N
i~~~~~~~~ ~~~ILOIR
DALYANKOY
SIFNE
BOYALIK
CE$ME   )        4t
TM1o                  GERMIYAN
ILICA TM7 >              REISDERE         Q
T2 
CIFTLIKKOY   )M611R
YPLACA  B-RU HAR            OVACIK            T
ETE DENEI                     / AALM NATIM
vv ~~KORFEZI 
KEY|
LEJAND-t                                                                                   '_
PIPELINES CONSTRUCTED TO END 199S                                    
1R95 SMNUNA KADAR YAPILAN BORU HATLARI
PIPEl.NES TO BE CONSTRUCTED
YAPILACAK BORU HATLARI
P.S. CIVIL WORK COMPLETEO
TM-INSAAT ISLERI TAMAMLANMI$TIR
,TREATMENT PLANT INLET CHAMBER
ARITMA TESISI GIRISI
A^    P.S. TO BE CONSTRUCTED
TM-YAPILACAK
a c er,             tAR           REPUBLIC OF TURKEY MINISTRY OF TOURISM.                   N.T.S.        C..S.
7 '                          TTRKIYE CUMHURIYETI TURIZM BAKANLIGI.              DAIE 2S/1/96       ALEE
s   iRLl.rttl  SOUTH WEST COAST ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT,
Acer ConsdtlnIls Lininled  FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR CE5ME-ALA4ATI AND SURROUNDING AREA    tAfl   440022  APROVED
'The ',Prry PeDearch Parl.    AKDENIZ - EGE TURIZM ALTYAPISI KIYI YONETIMI PROJESI.
* rurEXT 1EN C,EME-ALACATI, VE CEVRESI FIZIBILITE ETODJO.                                  FiGURE   6.3
l_l_LEL_  EXTENT OF CURRENT WASTEWATER CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT          CEKIL
E-R. DW/ItJR3DOOT/04C/O02/01        MEVCUT ATIKSU YAPIM SOZLESMESI KAPSAMI



N
LOIR
DALYANKOY
\   \    k 80YALIK                                                            |
TI~~~~~~~~~~~~~
KEY
LEJAND
o        PREVIOUS OISPOSAL LOCATION
ONCEKI BOSALTMA YERI
EXISTING DISPOSAL LOCATION
MEVUT BOSALTMA YERI 
CESME WASTE COLLECTION ROUTE                                                                              L
CESME ATIK TOPLAMA GIZERGAHI
ALACATI WASTE COLLECTION ROUTE
ALACATI ATIK TOPLAMA GOZERGAHI
Af           REPUBLIC OF TURKEY MINISTRY OF TOURIS                         
a ce r/,                           TORKIYE CUMH-URIYETI TURIZM BAKANULLITEMWCC
PROE,       SOUTH WEST COAST ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT.
ConsuUlants L4-mted  FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR ~E$ME-ALA~ATI AND SURROUNDING AREA     AOII44002S  APROE
The  yReSearch P             AKDENIZ - EGE TURIZM ALTYAPISI KIYI ONETIMO  PROJES
Ud Surrey,       WEAMETALAATI    C                      REI ZBIUTE 
CESME AU2 SXS                            VEGURSGEHI
T.-LL-
AlACATi/~2~ ;rTE        'XISTING SOLI WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITES REKIL
ALACATIDDOI/042 /075/011  tlEVCUT KATI ATIK BOSALTMA TESISLERI



s~~~~--                 )    -,a.~...     <c-.  ¶A M.~ .s^a
Photograph 7.3       Existing re§me Solid Waste Site
Foto6raf 7.3         ve5me Mevcut Kati Atik Sahasi
Photograph 7.4       Existing ge§me Solid Waste Site
Fotograf 7.4         qeFme Mevcut Kati Atik Sahasi



Following consideration of the various options available for solid waste management, the
following scheme has been proposed. A sanitary landfill would be developed at a new
location, to the south of the new Izmir motorway, midway between Alacati and the village
of Ovacik, together with pilot waste separation, recycling and composting projects. Remedial
work at the existing Gse§me dump site would also be carried out.
Funding is currently being sought for Phase 1 of the Project, which will meet the
requirements of the area until 2005. Future developments, which might be required in
Phase 2, could include the upgrading of wastewater treatment by construction of a treatment
plant south of Alacati providing primary or secondary treatment, the construction of
additional phases of the sanitary landfill and extensions of recycling and/or composting
schemes. While the scope of this EA is only concerned with Phase 1, any significant issues
which might be associated with Phase 2 are highlighted where appropriate.
33    ;e,me - Alasati Wastewater Systems
Following a detailed technical and economic analysis of alternative collection and
wastewater treatment options (refer to Section 6.2), it has been proposed that treatment of
collected wastewater from Cesme be carried out in the Alacati wastewater treatment plant.
Refer to Drawing No. ATKICES/FR/08  for the layout of the proposed wastewater scheme.
The existing 1300 m long ;e§me sea outfall, which is not yet in operation, will be retained
under the proposed option for possible future use to discharge treated wastewaters fro.m
future local developments in Altmkum along the south of the peninsula.
33.1 Alaqati Wastewater Treatment Plant
The site proposed by the Iller Bank for the Alacati wastewater treatment plant is situated
in an isolated rocky upland area at a distance from residential areas and presently covered
with scrub vegetation. The corridor of land disturbed by construction of the main sewer is
clearly visible as a white scar. The site is exposed to strong winds in the winter season,
hence measures to counter their effect on settlement tank performance would be required,
if such tanks were proposed in Phase 2. (See Photograph 6.5 in Section 6) of this Report.
Preliminary treatment only is now proposed for Phase 1, since more advanced treatment is
not presently required on technical grounds (because of the outfall location and its dilution
and dispersion characteristics) or by the current legislation. The effectiveness of this
treatment will be monitored to ensure that the Turkish Water Quality Standards are met
at all times. The proposed Alacati treatment plant site is not expected to be required
during Phase 1.
Wastewater from the Qe§me and Alagati systems will receive preliminary treatment at the
two terminal pumping stations TM6 and TM17, prior to pumping to the existing discharge
pipeline adjacent to the treatment plant site. Treatment will comprise:-
*    screening by 6mm screens; and
3-3



KEYI
COLLE[.. SYSTEM/ rrPLAMA SISE1MI             NETWORK SEWER/ SEBEKE BORULARI             V
-     _____  [VFL  III LAT IAN YI T I A                    AMA  EIHIKI 91114WE ASI
PHASE 1 GRAVIrY ANO PAESSLRE PIPELtN       FUTURE PHASES NETWORK SEWERS
' nfI ASAMA CAZHL VE BASNC 9AVU HAT [I                                L        L(ECKUlKI ASAMAIAR SfESKE RiUAAAIE             4J)
N                   -S                                                         PIASE I P'lMPiN, MAINS               ()    ...... ..... ..
K                                                                      A~~~~~~~~~~IAAAflV IIAIdlAfl PSI x 
IA N                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FUTURE PHEASES CiRAVITY PIPLA'L  A    PUMPN(, SI A rON     \
( 5<                                                                                LL SLS -ELUEAKI ASAMAALAEA CA,1E HATlARI    L*APT M(AAletIi
-+            DAT ¢  V YANKOY  _   _      IJE_JF PLIASES PLM INr MAINS             WASIrWAH TE IIAAITM/NT tI PANT 
E,ELTT kLAjI R  ASAMLAIAR  ItEAT HiA TEAHEAHLLIAT.LL
O   1km   X           w           f                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~                                                                                        ~       ~~~HAVZA SIORI  1 / $/
SC ALE lk. APPPOX
9ttEK YAKLASK                l."    2                         h tlAN
I,    AT                                                              (P AWA
~IFNE
I bi- @t jn ..... =, X-                                                                                                                   I 
.                                             BSS  UYLJK .J
f~~~~(A                                            r               -    ,0r  *zg 
:  ov^Cssr r ! \ ' t ', ( 11 ) ) ,, /AMA                                                                       -N/   ac-,
LMAN~~~~~~~~ 
\~~~~~~~~~                                                             -'\T~     '             '   -:: ^
10
N~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                                                           A.EAA
A~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tw
TMU9~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~404
ROPISJ  ATEWOFTER(UECY
MINIM  OFu TD-R
At TINKUM                                                                                                                                                                TOWK Ompm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ssT.
SE BA~KV
TM  Q?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PL   T/E/R0
OLASI DEEA3J                                                                                                                                                                                                      YENZI  VAREKSOUH  %F§ERSN  ;   '



*    grit removal.
Both screenings and grit will be removed automatically, bagged and transported by road to
disposal in the proposed sanitary landfill site. No sludge will be produced by the proposed
treatment processes.
If and when required, after extensive monitoring of the operation of the Phase 1 scheme,
or if Turkey joins the European Union (EU) and is required to meet EU Directives, Phase
2 of the Project may involve upgrading to primary or secondary biological treatment. Land
will be made available at the Alacati site for these future treatment needs, which would
probably include primary sedimentation tanks, secondary activated sludge plants and final
settlement tanks. Sludge would be thickened and mechanically dried on site before removal
by road, probably to the proposed sanitary landfill.
Future operational and maintenance facilities at the treatment works site will include
administration buildings and a watchman's house.
The other works which are proposed for the wastewater collection systems are as follows:-
*    construction of additional sewer connections, particularly secondary sewers linking
in with residential areas in a phased programme, following an assessment of priority
areas;
*    design and construction of new area pumping stations;
*    design and installation of mechanical and electrical works for pumping stations
already constructed.
The Alacati sea outfall, the construction of which was completed in 1995, is located to the
south of the peninsula. The DN800 pipe is constructed from glass reinforced plastic, and is
1330m in length.
The discharge point has been designed in accordance with the Water Pollution Control
Regulations, the main criteria of which are:-
*    Total coliform will be < 1000/100 ml in the protection area, where there is risk of
human contact, 90% of the observation time; and
*    Faecal coliform will be < 200/lOOml in the protection area, where there is risk of
human contact, 90% of the observation time.
The outfall cannot currently be used because the necessary sewerage pipelines and
connections have not been laid and the treatment plant construction has not started. Since
the outfall is in place, it is not included in the future investment plan.
3-4



3.3.2 Population and Loadings
Population figures (1995) for the whole area are given in Table 3.1. The table also includes
projected figures up to 2020, anticipating annual growth rates of 6-7% until 2005 and then
decreasing. The figures have been discussed at length and agreed with the Ministry of
Tourism and the Municipalities. The total peak summer population is expected to rise to
around 217,000 by 2020. As can be seen from Table 3.1, the population increases five times
in the summer as a result of tourists and seasonal residents, who own summer houses in the
area.
Table 3.1   Present and Future Population Estimates in the Municipalities
| Ce§me                11995    | 2000    2005      2010     2020
Resident Population    13,405   17,939   24,006    29,916    38,291
Summer I-lousing Pop.  41,650   47,701   52,665    58,147    65,836
Tourism                14,400   18,378   23,456    28,538    36,527
[Total                  69,455  | 84,018  | 100,127   116,601 | 140,654 I
[Alaati                 1995     2000     2005      2010     2020   l
Resident Population    7,248    9,700    13,605    17,781    24,476
Summer Housing Pop.   28,000   30,914   34,977    38,617    44,811
Tourism                  272     1,463    3,640    5,105     7,557   l
Total                  35,520   42,077   52,222    61,503    76,844 1
| Overall Total         1995    |2000   [2005       2010     2020
Resident population    20,653   27,639   37,611    47,697    62,767
Summer Housing Pop.   69,650  | 78,615    87,642    96,764    110,647
Tourism                14,672    19,841   27,096    33,643    44,084
[ Total                 104,975 1 126,095   152,349   178,104   217,498
The projected wastewater flows resulting from these populations are given in Table 3.2.
3-5



Table 3.2   Wastewater Flows to Alagat' Treatment Plant
Projected Wastewater
Period            Flow                BOD
DWF (lls)          (kg/day)
Summer
1995                0                   0
2005              156                5,146
2020              490               13,891
Winter
1995                0                   0
2005               53                1,675
2020              156                4,341
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The major business in the area is tourism. The only other industry is two slaughterhouses
operating at low capacity.
All the treatment options have been designed in accordance with the Turkish Water
Pollution Regulations, which set out the minimum standards permitted for wastewater to be
discharged without treatment through a long sea outfall. The main criteria are given in
Table 3.3. The proposed Project has been designed so that these standards will be met at
all times.
Table 3.3    Turkish Standards for Wastewater Discharge to Sea
Parameter                       Limiting Value
Suspended Solids (SS)                           350 mg/l
BOD                                             250 mg/l
COD                                             400 mg/l
Total numbers of coliform within the borders of  1000/100mi
a protection area with risk of human contact
3.3.3 ~antiye District Wastewater System
The most urgent problem with the current wastewater arrangements in the Study Area is
the inadequate operation of the 5antiye sewerage system in Ilica, which currently disposes
raw sewage at Istanbul Hill. (See Photograph 6.3). It is proposed to make immediate
improvements to this system, prior to commissioning of the main sewerage network and
3-6



Alacati preliminary treatment facilities. To ensure the reliable operation of the three
pumping stations serving $antiye, most or all of the pumps and pipework will need to be
replaced and automatic controls installed. This should alleviate the problem of overflows
from the pumping stations in the summer period.
The existing discharge chamber on Istanbul Hill will be replaced with a new concrete tank
with internal baffles. The tank will have a manually cleaned screen and an access for
occasional desludging by vacuum tanker. The outlet from the tank will be discharged
through a series of filter drains or terraced infiltration bays on the hillside to control the
flow of effluent to ,ifne stream. The existing pumping main to the tank will also be
protected to avoid leakage and potential cross-contamination with the Ildir water main
which is laid up Istanbul Hill. Although this is not an ideal solution, it must be considered
as a temporary solution providing a significant benefits until the pumping stations can
discharge to the new sewerage network.
3.4   Water Supply System
3.4.1 Current Supply and Projected Demand
Water sources for the area currently consist of the Ildir aquifer and smaller aquifers in the
Qeame and Alagati areas, which are tapped by many small private abstraction wells. By the
year 2000, water is also planned to be supplied by the recently completed Alacati Dam. Iller
Bank are currently progressing with the pre-construction formalities for the water treatment
works to treat up to 300 1/s of water from the dam. In conjunction with the treatment plant,
a pumping station will be provided to transfer the treated water to a service reservoir on
Istanbul Hill. The treatment works, pumping station and pipeline, all have committed
funding from the Special Provincial Administration in Izmir. (See Drawing No.
ATK/CES/FR/05).
Construction of an extensive water supply network commenced in 1989 in Cesme and
A1aqati, and currently around 80% of the transmission lines, pumping stations and reservoirs
have been completed. It is anticipated that the network will be complete by 1997, subject
to funding availability. The key problems with the current situation are saline intrusion in
some of the springs at the Ildir source, constraints on the peak yield from the Ildir source,
cross-contamination from sewage in the shallow wells in the urban areas, and the lack of
operational control of the system.
The proposed Project will therefore aim primarily to overcome these problems. New
sources will not be required in Phase 1. The Project will include aquifer protection works
at the Ildir source, relocation of some wells there, localised extensions to the distribution
network and uprating of the existing systems. Construction of the dam treatment plant,
pipelines and pumping station will also be carried out.
Present per capita Municipal water consumption in the Study Area is estimated to be 100
i/d for residents with higher consumptions for summer house residents and tourists. Levels
of consumption are projected to rise steadily over the period 1995 to 2020 due to the
increasing usage and availability of water and increasing affluence. The predicted per capita
3-7



e                                                                                                       | ET~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10JE 000 WAfl  h i m
S F W | 1W;1Wwi k g A t g@E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F&TEU    ALI                             t
SR .  IP                                                                                                00;0
AtAC1T              I 80W00      S       E               |                                                                                                02 wALY lAmWOY
CEl _E_T_   30    S&90                                                                                                           A1LA0iE0X
toDw  CEa1 mTR0AL  IDO  5&90                                                                                                            o
0      Y AOA3Y0000  210  -    7450                                                  SATAE       API ASX
~~~~~~~~~~ Wi M E  - O  C B   CO A   -  C M  C7                        BL E   YA [ S         Rlk
11 A0/  A~CAPMTI o  .07h8
PETXEz__                                                                                        k                     (                      a    me    t
__l r  t- _P_t IT -
Fj8JA  KPA8O  s
300~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01
-ODW TAW  VW   I  114.0  CM CDPA - DV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o.KOA Io IA OAIKLIVSI 
QYi--  1DOO  B4.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ml13800 FA
m  8400~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 0*
00.75                                          Emi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01W iEl&II
m    7050~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T/E/R0 
bw  5050                           El                                  LEA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VAK500
25M  57.00--- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~      )   ,..--.~K.__
UR WRNM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



consumption until the year 2020 is summarised in Table 3.4.
Table 3.4     Predicted Municipality Water Consumption (Residents)
Resident Consumption
Year                      (llh/d)
1995                         100
2000                        106
2005                        113
2010                        120
2020                        135
Estimates for total water demand until 2020 have been calculated by using predictions for
resident consumption together with estimates of the demand from summer residents,
tourists, hotels and commercial users. Account has also been taken of all other "free" water
uses and an allowance made for physical losses within the system. Table 3.5 details both
current and future water demand and the current production capacity.
Table 3.5    Projected Total Water Demand to 2020 and Current Production Capacity
Year         |   1995        2000       2005   |  2010         2020
Population                 104,975     126,095    152,349     178,104    217,498
3,755,022   4,961,111   6,337,893   7,409,689  10,161,018
Total Demand (m3/year)                                                          l
10,288     13,592     17,364      20,301     27,838
Total Demand (m3/d)                                                             l
19,362     26,709     34,841      41,524     57,02l
Peak Demand (m3/d)                                                              l
Total Production         3,755,022   6,119,254   6,119,254   6,119,254   6,119,254
Capacity (m3/year)                                                                .
Safe yield including     15,010,000  16,790,000  16,790,000  16,790,000  16,790,000
Alaqati Dam (m3/year)                                           =
As can be seen from Table 3.5, the projected demand can be met from existing sources,
once the Alaqati Dam source and treatment plant is commnissioned in 1999. Additionally,
it is believed that the predicted levels of demand are within the capacity limits of safe yield
of the groundwater aquifers.
The yearly groundwater potential in the aquifers, except for the Karaburun carbonates which
include the Ildir source, are limited. Surveys carried out to date show the existence of a
high amount of potable water in the Karaburun carbonates, which extend to around 45m
below sea level. However, as noted above, saline intrusion affects parts of this aquifer.
3-8



The water quality standards targeted for the Project are the Class 1 standards of the EU
Water Quality Regulations (EU Directive 80/778/EEC). However, the minimum standards
will comply with the Turkish Standard TS266.
3.4.2 Aquifer Protection Works
The Ildir Springs are of major importance to the future water supply of the Study Area and
therefore their protection is of paramount importance. It is proposed to sink exploratory
boreholes and build up monitoring data on the extent of the aquifer and the groundwater
quality.
Saline intrusion into parts of the aquifer is known to be increasing year by year with the
rising demand in production. A measure, which is known to be effective in reducing such
intrusion, is to provide an impervious curtain wall between the sea and the freshwater
aquifer. This practice is not uncommon in Turkey and has previously been recommended
by DSI at this location. Trial grouting of cement/bentonite mix at chosen locations will
provide the necessary parameters to design the permanent grout walling. It is estimated that
a permanent wall approximately 500 m in length to a depth of 45 m will be required.
3A.3  Leakage Reduction and Localised Improvements to the Networks
The likely leakage rates from the current distribution systems and the network nearing
completion cannot be assessed until detailed studies have been carried out. However, the
Feasibility Study has estimated a level of 46%. The Project will implement a number of
measures to reduce this, and a gradual reduction to around 20% in 2020 is targeted.
Measures will comprise:-
*    a detailed survey of all networks and development of a network model;
*    a comprehensive leak detection and control programme; and
*    installation of water meters at all production wells.
3.4.4 Closure of Private Wells
In conjunction with the above improvements, there should be a major campaign to close
private wells and require the population to utilise the Municipality systems only.
3.5   Solid Waste Collection and Disposal
3.5.1 Ce§me- Alacati Sanitary Landfill
The Qe§me-Alaqati sanitary landfill would be designed as a safe, environmentally controlled
solid waste disposal site for waste arisings from the Municipalities until the year 2020. The
location of the proposed Site 2B, (refer to Drawing No. ATK/CES/FR/09), which was
suggested by Ce§me Municipality, is 8 km south-east of Qe§me, 4 km south-west Alacati, and
4 km south-east of Ovacik Village. The site is generally flat and is easily accessed by a road
of good standard, which crosses under the Izmir motorway. There are no residential areas
3-9



VAL YANKLIY
SAL l A-                                                                                                                  NE                                                                 '
tLCEK YAKLASIK lkN.                                        PAA
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                                                        
. \                                                                                                                                                                                                                  \    1111W   0 /         [        A?ALIR ATIVE TRANSFER    I  A?
a_  ;r[lSelwt,Dllt[lUSll 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TITN ET OS WI~eTLPEET
____   ZSTASE COLLECTlNRUTUTCTILN/                          \                i      \               G                              ,OlV    tN                                                                       SLW TE EM<S K
LAST STAGE mEECTLON OTTELTION ~ ~ ~ ~     ~         ATON OCAKJ
TAt STATiC TRANSET?T SANTE                                                                                                                                                                           PR!POSW RJTIATEINATi  TPANO4S
1 (TAP ERANSFER A UZERtiAH          / LT T                     X      3     )          j(/_gt                 CA              s       t    <      2      O  (J              /             5         2 1fi4            PRO RJ1UE no
An d   S T A G E   T R A N 5 F E R   R O U T E   T R AN S F E Rt  S TA ST L hAA A   S I A I I  N  1
2 TAP TSANTPTLT SETZENSAL#  TRANSP(S TSTAOYOTAL ISTASYV I                                                                               GRHYA
p4Ew0sFoL/AuNlouFRtELSTX+-<                                       kiL liKKO              j      S          G        t                                       0       {l-   ATK/CES/FR/09|
EE DENIM ZI MI , d _>  ? C >AGrwpLI,a,20-05-96
__                                  - _                             __ w9(



within a 1 km radius of the site. See Photograph 13.4 in Section 6.
According to the information obtained in the waste analyses made in during 1996, the
percentage of recyclable material was found to be about 23%. However, a significant factor
in the waste composition was the amount of waste generated as slag and ash from the coal
used as fuel in winter. In the summer period, this material will not be included, and the
amounts of recyclable wastes and organic materials such as vegetables, fruit and garden
wastes are likely to increase. Chemical analyses of waste samples in summer and winter
were used to determine the feasibility of composting.
Waste arisings have been predicted based on the projected population figures. Per capita
waste generation was taken as 0.7 kg/d for 1996 and increased annually by 1.5% until 2020,
when it is expected to reach 1.0 kgld. Experience in other countries shows that values of
1.1 - 1.2 kg/d are attained before gradually reducing. Recycling and waste recovery would
have to be significant to keep a 'no growth' prediction in per capita generation. Predicted
waste arisings for the period to 2020 are shown in Table 3.6. The predicted total amount
has been the base criteria for calculating the required sanitary landfill capacity.
3-10



Table 3.6   Required Capacity of Sanitary Landfill
Year    Annual Waste Amount | Total Waste Amount   Total Waste Amount
l ____________  j    (t)                   (t)                   (m3)
1998            15,543                15,543                18,286
1999            16,439                31,982                37,626
2000            17,355                49,337                58,043
2001            18,503                67,840                 79,812
2002            19,678                87,519                102,963
2003            20,905                108,424               127,558
2004            22,161                130,585               153,630
2005            23,416                154,002               181,178
2006            24,719                178,721               210,260
2007            26,050               204,771                240,907
2008            27,442               232,213                273,192
2009            28,831                261,044               307,111
2010            30,283                291,327               342,738
2011            31,633                322,961               379,954
2012            33,011                355,971               418,790
2013            34,415                390,387               459,278
2014            35,885                426,271               501,496
2015            37,343                463,641               545,429
2016            38,618                502,233               590,862
2017            39,915                542,148               637,821
2018            41,275                583,422               686,379
2019            42,614                626,037               736,514
2020            44,019                670,056               788,301
The required capacity of the landfill is therefore around 670,000 t, which, at the estimated
compacted waste density in the landfill of 0.85 t/m3, gives a required landfill volume of
around 800,000m3, excluding daily cover material.
The landfill site will be a fully engineered facility with a range of environmental controls.
The detailed technical aspects of the landfill site have not yet been finalised but will include
the following:-
*    sealed base comprising impermeable layer of compacted clay, 2mm HDPE (high
density polyethylene) plastic liner, geotextile protection layer, leachate drainage layer
3-11



including leachate collection pipes, and a geotextile filter layer;
*    leachate drainage system and on-site treatment plant (when required, tanking to the
sewer network will be used initially);
*    surface water cut-off trenches;
*    passive landfill gas extraction; and
*    phased restoration to open space.
Waste will be disposed of in a sequence of working cells and covered with suitable inert
cover material at the end of each working day. It is proposed to set up pilot composting
and recycling plants at the site.
3.6   Pre-Construction Activities
In addition to the design work which is an obvious pre-requisite of any major construction
project, there are a number of pre-construction activities to be undertaken.
3.6.1 Land Acquisition
Land will be required permanently for the Alaqati water and wastewater treatment plants.
it is understood from the Municipalities that the Alacati site is publicly owned but that the
(e§me site is partly privately owned. The proposed works at Istanbul Hill and at the Ildir
source are also within publicly owned land. The landfill site is owned by the Ministry of
Forestry but most recently 15 ha of this land was leased for a landfill.
3.6.2 Planning and Liaison
All works will need to be approved in advance by the Municipality, the Ministry of Tourism
and the Provincial Environment Department. The sanitary landfill site required an EIA to
be carried out under the 1993 Turkish ELA Regulations due to the previous status as lying
within a Protected Zone. This EIA was prepared and submitted for approval to the
Ministry of Environment in August 1996.
The site has been approved by the Municipality Mayors for use as a landfill and in
November 1996, the status of the site was amended by the Ministry of Culture to enable its
use for this purpose. However, a full ELA was still obligatory, since the site was owned by
the Ministry of Forestry. Eventually, the ETA report was approved by the Ministry of
Environment in March 1997, following evaluation and public-hearing meetings.
Planning and liaison will be carried out throughout the design process, co-ordinated by the
two Municipalities through their local councils. It will be necessary to consult with the
Municipalities to ensure that the chosen sewer routes are acceptable; with the traffic police
to ensure that the construction works minimise disruption to the flow of traffic and with the
various utility companies to minimise conflict with existing and proposed water, electricity
and telephone services.
3-12



3.6.3 Public Relations
Although careful planning and liaison should help to minimise disruption to the general
public, public consultation should be undertaken by the Municipalities to inform the public
of the benefits of the Project and keep them informed of construction activities. This
commenced in 1996, with public meetings being held in Xe§me in July and September, and
followed with a public hearing meeting for the proposed sanitary landfill in February 1997.
3.7   Construction Activities
3.7.1 General
In accordance with local requirements, major construction activities in coastal and tourist
areas will not be undertaken during the summer tourist season. This will significantly
reduce the potential disturbance of construction activities, since they will be carried out in
the winter when traffic, pedestrian activity and recreational usage are all much lower than
in the summer.
3.7.2 Wastewater Systems
It is likely that only one or two contracts will be let for construction of new secondary sewer
networks, pumping stations, pumping mains and the initial preliminary treatment equipment
in Alaqati. The construction period is proposed to commence in 1998 and have a duration
of 3-4 years. The current Iller Bank construction contract is also expected to continue during
the period but with its emphasis changed to the construction of secondary network sewers.
The extent of the proposed system to be constructed under the Phase 1 Project will be
constrained by the limited availability of funds. The recommended strategy is to construct
the essential backbone of a single collection system to serve the main urban residential areas
of ;e§me and Alacati to provide a year round base flow. The system will then be expanded
outwards to serve the other urban areas in order of priorities and as funds permit.
Construction of new pumping stations TM2 is likely with TM4, TM16 and 20 possible. These
will serve the areas of 4;e§me town, Alacati town, Ilica, Boyalik and Dalyank6y.
Laying of pumping mains and sewers in urban areas will be quite extensive in some districts
to provide for an adequate and comprehensive house and property connection programme.
Concrete pipes are expected to be manufactured by the contractor on site in a purpose built
production facility. Asbestos cement pipes, if used in limited quantities, will be brought in
by road.
Phase 1 could also involve the construction of the Alagati preliminary wastewater treatment
plant. General site preparation and levelling would be required before construction, for the
location of site works, machinery, and equipment. A concrete mixing plant would not be
required for initial construction works and concrete is expected to be trucked in. It is not
anticipated that significant volumes of material will need to be removed from the site. An
improved site access road will be required to replace the existing track which was used for
construction of the pipeline to the site. However, to minimise Phase 1 costs preliminary
3-13



treatment (fine screenings and grit removal) is proposed to be carried out at existing
pumping stations rather than at the new treatment plant site.
An advance works contract for refurbishing the Santiye area pumping stations and
construction of a new tank and infiltration field at Istanbul Hill will be let in early 1998.
3.7.3 Water Supply
A single contract is expected to be let by the SPA for the construction of the Alacati Dam
treatment plant, pumping station and the pipeline to Istanbul Hill. Tenders were submitted
in October 1996 and award is expected in early 1997.
The geological and hydrogeological studies on the Ildir aquifer will commence in 1998 and
take one year to complete. Construction of the cement grout curtain wall is expected to be
carried out by a specialist contractor during the following year together with relocation of
some Ildir wells. Miscellaneous work such as installation of network water meters and
chlorination facilities will be awarded to a single contractor for purchase and installation.
During the above works, there is not expected to be any significant disruption to residents
or to traffic as most transmission pipelines are already constructed in built-up areas. Any
future distribution networks to be completed will generally be in newly developing areas and
will be constructed in the winter season.
3.7.4 Solid Waste Systems
If sufficient funding is available, construction of the proposed sanitary landfill site will
probably start in 1998 and, together with the pilot recycling and composting facilities, be
complete within two years. The proposed site is isolated from the urban areas and will
require a new local access road to be constructed.
3.8   Operation and Maintenance
Once the scheme has been constructed, appropriately qualified and trained staff will be
appointed to operate and manage the water supply and wastewater systems, and the landfill
site and waste transfer stations.  This is likely to be carried out under a strengthened
Municipality structure initially or by a newly established Union or Union Corporation. In
the latter cases management and operation may be performed by private sector contractors
under the control of the Union.
It has been recommended that all operations within the two Municipalities be combined to
improve operation and maintenance practices.
3.9   Timescale
The anticipated timescale for the design and implementation of the Phase 1 Project is shown
in Figure 14.7.
3-14



1i     I +a
E                                                        lm~~~~- 
m~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
g~~~~-                                    =              -             -       t  = a
-l 1' 11 
---- ~           ~I-    - o- 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~ J
.                                                  I-_W    - =_
'., , ,,, =             1-                    , ,,,, =,-----
------                                                                    - =.,,,.,   --------------
I-----     ------------     ------------     ---------------  ---------
- ------------- ----    -------------------------                ----
£--------------------------- --*-----------------------------



I            I



4.0   DESCRIPTION OF THE BASELINE ENVIRONMENT
4.1   The Study Area
The Project is located on the Karaburun Peninsula on the western coast of Turkey, in the
Province of Izmir. The coast of the peninsula is deeply incised with a series of rocky
headlands and sandy bays. Although the peninsula is generally hilly, tree cover is limited.
The majority of the population and tourism developments are located along the northern
coast from the small port town of I;e§me in the west to Sifne in the east. The southern
coast is generally undeveloped. The old town of Alacati lies in the middle of the peninsula.
Both Ge§me and Alaaati are linked to Izmir by a recently completed motorway. An airport
is under construction to the south-east of Alagati. Until it is opened, the nearest facility is
80km away in Izmir.
The Study Area for the assessment consists of the areas to be serviced by the water supply
system, wastewater systems and solid waste collection (the Municipality areas of (;e§me and
Alaqati); and the areas of marine water potentially affected by the effluent discharge. The
Study Area is also extended to include the main water supply source at Ildir to the north-
east.
Since the proposed Project does not involve effluent reuse or sludge disposal or reuse at this
stage, a review of potential future reuse areas are not included in this Report. Furthermore,
because the Project will not generate any significant atmospheric emissions, the airsheds
have not been included in the Study Area.
4.2   Physical Environment
4.2.1 Geology
The Karaburun Peninsula is the westernmost point of the three zones in the paleotectonic
structure of Western Anatolia, which covers the whole of the Study Area. The Menderes
Massif, which is composed of different metamorphic rocks, lies to the east of these three
zones. The Karaburun Zone covers the Karaburun and (;e§me Peninsulas and consists of
platform type continuous carbonates.
The Paleozoic greywacke and limestone found around Karaburun and (;e§me are the basic
elements in this zone. These basic elements are overlaid with mixed Mesozoic carbonates.
In the late Cenozoic and Neogene periods, after a long stratigraphical break, lake formation
and volcanic eruptions resulted in the whole area being covered with tuff, agglomerate and
andesite. The tuff is generally at the base of the volcanic series. The lake formations can
be seen as sandstone, clay, marl and clayey limestone successions on this base.
The Quaternary period is represented by sand, gravel, clay and shale levels. They cover
small areas in Ovacik, to the east of Alacati, in the Nohutalan and Uzunkuyu plains and
along the valley floors.
4-1



The proposed landfill site is bordered by sedimentary rocks, but it is situated entirely on
volcanic Pliocene aged tuffs which have low permeability. Folding, faults and local faults
are widespread in the area, however it is understood from geological maps that no faults
have been defined at the selected site. The Study Area is generally in a first degree seismic
zone.
4.2.2 Soils
There is limited available information on the soils of the Study Area, although the Ovacik
plain is known to have good quality agricultural soils. The (Ge§me wastewater treatment
plant site, proposed by the Iller Bank is located on an area of prime agricultural land.
4.2.3 Climate
The climate of Qe§me and the surrounding area is typically Mediterranean with hot, dry
summers and cool, rainy winters. As can be seen from Table 4.1, the average annual
precipitation is 589.8 mm and average annual temperature is 17 'C. Surface water and
groundwater are fed by high precipitation in the winter, but for the rest of the year
precipitation is low. The wind blows from north and north-west in summer and from the
south and south-east in winter. The average annual wind speed is 2.9 mis. Wind speeds up
to 33.8 m/s have been recorded during storms.
The proposed landfill Site 2B is likely to experience winds throughout the year because it
is on the prevailing NNW - SSE wind axis. There is little possibility however for the site
to be affected by significant precipitation.
Table 4.1     Climatic Data for the Study Area
Months       7        Ir1      [ 4    5    6  17     8 &j  9]   10   111  12  Yearly1
Precipitation  124.4  83.4  63.7  33.2  184  5.1   1.8   0-4   15.4  30.5  65.2  65.2  589.8
(mm)                                                _                 _
Temperature  9.3   9.8  11.5  15.0  19.1  23.6  25.4  24.8  22.1  17.8  14.0  11.0  17.0
DC
Evaporation  ,              94.7  139.1  173.4  188   169   115.3  81.7  50.0  51.8  946.1
(mm)                                                           __
Wind      S      ENE  ENE  S    NNW  NNW  NNW  NNW  NNW  NNW  NNE  S
Direction
Wind Speed  3.5   3.7  3.2  3.0  2.6   2.5   2.7   2.6   2.4   2.7   2.9  3.3  2.9
(m.s)          I     I       _                    I            I
Humidity  71    70   71   71   70   65    6         66   68   71   73   72   69
4-2



4.2.4 Surface Water and Wastewater
There are no major sources of surface water in the vicinity of the proposed site for the
Alaqati wastewater treatment plant (or the previously proposed Qe§me site).
At the sanitary landfill site, the dry stream bed of Alancik Creek lies along the eastern side
of the proposed landfill. In consultations made with relevant institutions, it was stated that
the site was not thought to be at risk from flood, landslide or erosion. Site investigation also
confirmed this situation. The landfill site is not situated within a protection zone relating
to surface water or catchment areas.
There are a number of existing discharges to the marine environment. These include diffuse
inputs from septic tank soakaways via groundwater and surface watercourses, from boat and
shipping discharges and from Municipal sources such as Istanbul Hill (via $ifne stream) and
Alacati Bay. The available information on microbiological water quality has been derived
from the previous GKW and DEU reports and from sea water sampling results obtained
from the Sub-Provincial Health Department in 5;e§me. These results are sunimarised on
Figure 8.1.
Mean concentrations of Total Coliform comply with the Turkish limit value of 1,000 TC/100
ml, but this parameter is not a reliable indicator of sewage pollution. The Faecal Coli
sampling results exceed the compliance level at a number of locations. Failures at Boyalik
are probably associated with the unsewered developments at this site and those at Tekke
Plaji and Qe§me Korfezi with shipping and the tourist developments along the seafront in
this area. It should, however, be noted that water quality is within the requirements of the
current EU Bathing Water Standards (which are 10,000/100 ml for Total Coli).
In general, microbiological water quality problems are localised and probably associated
with relatively small untreated sewage discharges. Low values of nutrients and chlorophyll
indicate that eutrophication is not a significant factor in the region (considering the
agricultural activity in the area south of Qe§me). The same is true of the values of ammonia,
nitrate, nitrite and phosphate.
4.2.5 Groundwater
The main areas from which groundwater can be derived are the Karaburun carbonates,
Qe5me carbonates, Neogene limestones and the levels of volcanic tuff, agglomerate and
andesite. Water can also be found in the shallow alluvium plains of the Study Area.
The water potential from the various wells display significant variations in quantity and
quality. The boreholes around Alacati supply water from the tuff and agglomerate levels and
generally provide very low yields. Water quality is however very good.
The boreholes around Qe5me, Ovacik and Qiftlikk6y supply water from the sand, gravel,
conglomerate, marl and limestone levels of the lacustrine sediments. Yields from these
sources are generally seasonal. Due to the excessive withdrawal by unregistered users, sea
water intrusion is now observed in almost all the wells.
4-3



02910[R
DALYANKy  232            419
363  Q                                  013
1          0~~(                     SIFNE
374   48
24S  CES        BOYALIK      260   42
73K                                                                                         GERMIYAN
245                                               ILICA yb ,   X   (t)REISDERE
CIFTLIKKOY
OVACIK                       ALACATI
48   8
0
KEY                                                                ALACATI
LEJAND                 EGE DENIZI                                  KORFEZI
;68 TOTAL COLIFORMS-COMPLIANCE<1000/100mt
48  FAECAL COLIFORMS-COMPLIANCE (200/100ml                          SARK
0   STREPTOCOCCI                                                    PLAJI
1.= BUYUK LIMAN
2.= ILICA HALK PLAJIlPublic Beach)
3.= BOYALIK PLAJI(Beach)
4.= AYOYORGI PLAJI(Beach)
5.= DALYAN HALK PLAJI(Pubtic Beach)
6.= CESME KORFEZI
7.= TEKKE PLAJI
8.= ALTINKUM PLAJI
a c e I              tt14!         REPUBLIC OF TURKEY MINISTRY OF TOURISM.                       NJ .     [_rh
acel,                                                                                     19,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BKNIG.IAWN  W
4  :!+7                        TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI TURIZM BAKANLIGi.                  DA1L 2S/1/96        LWC
PROKC1~~~~~~~~~ 25I1CK3t                                               D
PR00J[       SOUTH WEST COAST ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT,                                 rItKED
Acer Consultants Limiled   FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR CESME-ALA5ATI AND SURROUNDING AREA          rAt   440026  APFtUVED
? Chanceltr Couil. Occam  RoAd. 
s Surrey Pesearch Prk,        AKOENIZ - EGE TURIZM ALTYAPISI KIYI YONETIMI PROJESI.
COford. Surroy.                     CESME-ALAI>ATI, VE CEVRESI FIZIBILITE ETOO.
Engaij. Oh? ;XS      VTIRVRES FFIGULREEET1BD
,lLt      SEA WATER SAMPLE RESULTS/100rnl-MEAN VALUES                      $EKIL
cRA ODW/ UBDOOT/O42 /026/01   DENIZ SUYU ANALIZ SONUCLARI/100ml ORTALAMA DEGERLER



The boreholes around Qe§me and Dalyankoy are supplied from the Qe5me carbonates. Sea
water intrusion is considerable, and a number of these wells have now been closed.
The boreholes around Ildir are supplied from the Karaburun carbonates. In the Camibogazi
valley, the Ildir Springs are formed from the karstic Karaburun carbonates. There are three
spring groups (lower, middle and upper) along the valley towards the coast. Large discharges
are observed from these springs, although the lower group is affected by saline intrusion.
There are two potable water wells bored by Iller Bank near the §eeme wastewater
treatment plant site proposed by Iller Bank. There are no known groundwater abstractions
near the Alaqati wastewater treatment plant site.
Due to the boreholes being close to the landfill site, the foundation of the site is on tuff with
a thickness of 100 m and there is no water up to 50 m depth. There are two wells operated
by DSI 2.3 km north and 2.5 km north-west of the site. The landfill site is not situated
within a groundwater protection zone.
High concentrations of chlorides and sulphates, well above the recommendations in Turkish
Standard TS 266, are found in all sources.
Pollution of the groundwater is also occurring and an analysis of results produced by the
Municipalities show unacceptable levels of coliform and organic matter (Refer to Appendix
E.1 of Qe§me-Alaqati Feasibility Study by Hyder). The infiltration of wastewater into the
subsoil from septic tanks is of major concern. One such incident in 1995 resulted in all the
well sources in Cesme being closed. Due to the shallow aquifers, pollution occurs as a result
of seepage from septic tanks as mentioned above. In addition there is a likelihood of
infiltration by fertilizers.
On the edge of the catchment of the Alacati Dam, there is a solid waste dump site that has
been used by the Alacati Municipality. This site is no longer being used, and in recent
months the accumulated waste has been removed to prevent any surface discharge or
groundwater movement into the catchment. In a similar manner there are raw sewage
discharges on Istanbul Hill, which is also being used as an illegal dumping site.
Reisdere village is also on the boundary of the catchment, and leakages from septic tanks
must be considered. These areas must be examined and actions taken to ensure no
discharges are directed into the catchment. Test boreholes are recommended in these areas
to assess contamination levels.
Conductivity levels in all sources are generally high. Values ranging between 2000 to 3000
mmho/cm are detected in the Ildir Springs.
4-4



4.2.6 Topography
The topography of the region is generally hilly, with the towns of §e,eme and Alacati
surrounded by a number of upland areas. In the west, Karadag Hill rises to a height of
203m between the villages of Alacati and Ovacik. The main plains are the Ovaclk Plain to
the south of Ce§me, the Ilica Plain to the north of Alacati, and the Nohutalan Plain and the
Uzunkuyu Barbaros Plain to the east of the Study Area.
The sites proposed by Iller Bank for the Qe5me treatment plant and the site proposed in this
Study for the sanitary landfill site are topographically flat, lying in gently sloping valleys.
The Alacati treatment plant site is situated in a rocky upland area.
42.7 Landscape
The landscape within the Study Area is generally of moderate to high quality, characterised
by a series of rocky headlands and sandy bays. Inland, the peninsula is gently undulating
and predominantly rural in character. The more rocky upland areas are generally vegetated
by scrub and rough grassland; in the lower valleys agriculture predominates.
The northern coast to Sifne in the east is heavily developed and the character of this area
must be considered as urban. The architectural and aesthetic quality of the tourist areas
is variable. The towns of Ce,me and Alacati have more architectural interest, with a
number of attractive old areas featuring the characteristic traditional Qe§me Houses.
4.3   Biological Environment
4.3.1 Terrestrial Ecology
The vegetation in the Study Area generally comprises plants characteristic of arid land, such
as olive trees, spring shrubs and wild grasses. In dry and stoney areas of (;e§me, short bushes
like wild asparagus (asparagus acutifolius), great burnet (sarcopoterium), cistus with small
pink flowers (cistus parvifolius), Judas-tree (cercis silixuastrum), timber heather (erica
arborea), bitter-sweet (jasminum fruticans) and common broom (spartium junceum), and
herbaceous plants like euphorbia, motherwort, thyme and lavender are common.
Common broom, wild gum, terebinth, wild strawberry and valonia oak form the scrub flora,
while the pasture flora is formed by thyme, garden sage, wild tulip and orchids.
Qe§me Peninsula is situated to the west of an area quite rich for hunting animals. Wild boar,
bear, jackal, wolf, roe-deer and fox are listed as most important among these. In Qesme,
there are also bird species like partridge, wood pigeon, duck and quail.
There is agricultural activity (arable crop cultivation) near the Qe,me wastewater treatment
plant site proposed by Iller Bank and the farmers are believed to use quantities of biocides
(herbicide, insecticide, pesticide) on the land in an attempt to increase its fertility. These
biocides may pose an environmental risk to the flora, fauna, and biological structure of the
soil as well as to the groundwater.
4-5



At the proposed landfill site there are some areas formally used for tobacco planting. The
flora of the site includes the spring bushes, mastic bushes, heather and few olive trees. The
fauna of the site includes partridges, rabbits and possibly foxes.
4.3.2 Aquatic Ecology
The marine species in the region display some diversity but the biological productivity level
is low. In the Mediterranean/Aegean Seas biodiversity increases from east to west. There
is little diversity in the ie§me region. Kekova-Ucagiz (Antalya) and G6kova Gulf have
been proposed as sites for the National Marine Parks which are due to be established in
Turkey. No National Marine Park is planned near Ce§me.
The benthic marine ecology within the coastal zone is mainly determined by physical
sediment type, with slight underlying influences from sewage discharges to the area, and the
oceanographic nature (high salinity, high temperature) of the area. In general, the species
are typical of semi-enclosed seas of this latitude, with relatively low species diversity and
abundance. Within the coastal zone there are no designated shell fisheries, although there
are some commercial and recreational fishery activities.
The area along the Qe§me outfall consists of a rocky biotope between the shoreline and 3m
depth of water lying parallel to the shore with a width of 15-20m, which has considerable
dense algal vegetation. Thereafter a sandy zone with a Posidonis oceanica covers the
bottom completely in the deeper zones. In this region, 10 species of flora, 112 species of
the benthic invertebrates, 13 species of the fishes and hence a total of 135 species in total
were identified. There is no pollution at a level which can be effective on the biota at this
location.
The Alacati outfall has a similar but wider 20-25m rocky band with dense algal vegetation
down to a depth of 4m, thereafter a na7row sandy biotope appears. A distance of 250-300mn
from the shoreline where the water depth is 8-lOm, a patchy distribution of Posidonia
oceanica starts on a sandy biotope. After 10-1Sm water depth it covers the bottom
completely. There is no pollution in the region where 17 species of flora, 129 species of
benthic invertebrates, 13 species of fishes and hence a total of 159 species were identified.
Among the benthic zones, there are 129 taxa in the upper infralittoral zone, which is
typically the richest, while there are 73 taxa in the infralittoral zone.
Polythene bag techniques tests were carried out by the Dokuz Eyliil University in July and
September 1993 to determine the T,, bacterial die-off. These tests concluded that a T,=
2 hours 30 minutes is advisable for the ;e§me area.
4.3.3 Protected Areas and Species
Within the Study Area are a number of sites which have been granted protection by the
Turkish Government. The classifications of protection zones present are defined in Table
4.2 and shown on Drawing No. ATK/CES/FR/04.
4-6



.t6 
s }70/5yI  .                                                         i



Table 4.2 Ecological Protection Zones
Classification of Protection Zone            Prohibition           J
National Park                      Housing prohibited outside existing
settlement areas. Projects in accord
with the Ministry of Forestry's plan
for the Park may be approved by
them.
1st Degree Natural Protection Zone   All types of physical activities in the
zone are prohibited.
2nd & 3rd Degree Natural           After the approval of the Cultural
Protection Zone                    and Natural Protection Council,
excavation and/or construction are
allowed.
A large part of the Study Area has recently been designated as a 1st or 2nd Degree Natural
Protection Zone in an attempt to control further development of the peninsula. This
however conflicts with the current development plans.
The previously proposed Qe§me wastewater treatment plant site is not located within a
Natural Protection Zone. However, the proposed site for the Alaqati treatment plant lies
within a 1st Degree Natural Protection Zone. The sanitary landfill site has recently been
removed from a 2nd Degree Zone.
A number of water supply protection zones have been designated around the Alacati Dam
reservoir and the closed former Alaqati landfill site is within the 1st Degree zone.
There are no known plans to create any National Marine Parks around the Study Area.
The gum tree was historically one of the most important trees of the (;e§me area, although
most have now disappeared as a result of construction and development pressures. The
Municipality is now trying to protect the gum trees by registering them.
4.3.4 Species of Commercial Importance
Species of commercial importance within the Study Area relate to agriculture. The main
products of the region are globe artichokes, grapes, melons, aniseed, corn, summer and
winter vegetables and olives. Agricultural activity has, however, declined over recent years
as a result of limited water supplies, and increases in residential and tourism developments.
Tobacco, formerly a significant crop, has now almost disappeared due to poor quality yields.
4-7



4.4   Socio-Cultural Environment
4.4.1 Population and Community Structure
Present populations and future estimates for Ge§me - Alaqati and the surrounding areas are
as scheduled in Table 4.3.
Table 4.3 Population Data
|e§me and      1 1995     | 2000      2005     | 2010     | 2020
Alagati Total
Residential      20,653    27,639     37,611    47,697     62,767
Population
Visiting Summer  69,650    78,615     87,642     96,764    110,647
House Population
Tourism          14,672     19,841    27,096     33,643    44,084
Total            104,975    126,095    152,349    178,104    217,498
The total population is projected to increase by around 45% by 2005 and to double by 2020.
Surveys have shown that the (predominantly Turkish) visiting population, which resides in
the area only during the peak summer months, is currently more than three times the year-
round resident population. This dominance is, however, expected to decline over time and
there is considerable optimism that the Qeqme-Alaqati tourist industry will expand at the
expense of further summer house development. Construction of the new motorway link to
Izmir and the airport to the south-east of Alacati should provide a strong impetus to further
development of tourism.
Qe§me has traditionally attracted the wealthier Turkish citizens to its health spas and
beaches, but increasingly middle income visitors have come to the area and invested in
summer housing co-operative developments.
4A.2 Land Use
Land use in the Study Area is predominantly open space and agricultural land. The
approximate areas of the main land use types are given in Table 4.4.
4-8



Table 4A    Land Use
Land Use Type                          Area (ha)
Residential areas                         1,095
Summer houses                             1,750
Agricultural land                         3,260
Recreational areas                         550
Tourism facilities                        1,440
Forest areas                              1,200
Open space                                9,480
Other                                      225
Total Area                                19,000.
The ;e§me wastewater treatment plant location proposed by iller Bank may be re-sited out
of the area of high grade agricultural land, onto an area which is currently open space.
Surrounding land uses are predominantly agriculture with a few isolated farmhouses. The
Alacati wastewater treatment plant site is currently open land, in an open upland location.
Land use at the proposed sanitary landfill site is currently barren or grazing land surrounded
by scrub-covered hills to the west, north and east. A dry stream bed is located to the east
of the site.
4.43 Future Development
From the early 1980's significant social and economic changes have taken place in the Study
Area, primarily as a result of tourism and summer house development. Previously the area
mainly relied on agriculture.
The development of summer housing has been significant. Many housing co-operatives have
now been developed and attract residents to the area for varying periods but especially in
July - August and at weekends between April - October. The majority of the summer
residents come from within the Izmir area.
The future development of the area will continue to depend extensively on the tourist and
leisure industry. Tourism, agriculture and trade will therefore form the main economy of the
4-9



region. The main industrial and commercial activities will relate almost exclusively to
servicing the tourist industry.
The new motorway recently completed linking Izmir with Alacati and C;esme will encourage
further development. In additional, construction started in 1995 for an airport on the
southern part of the peninsula. This will also improve the area's transportation links. A new
terminal at Izmir Airport for charter flights is also being considered. Furthermore, the
construction of new marinas in Ce,me harbour, Alacati and Dalyankoy will greatly increase
the tourism potential for shipping and yachting activities.
The higher education facilities of the area are also being improved. A technical high school
is now being constructed in Qe§me. In addition, a large area has been designated to the
south-east of Alacati for a new university facility. Completion of these facilities should
reverse the current need for students to leave the area to seek higher education.
4.4.4 Employment
The main commercial activity in C,esme and Alacati is tourism. This is the single most
significant employment sector and income source in the area. Although there are no major
industrial plants in Ce,me or Ala,ati, there are three small industrial areas. At these sites
are carpentry workshops, repair and maintenance workshops, marble workshops, plastic
workshops and 5 petrol stations. The increase in housing construction has led to an
expansion of the construction industry and the number of businesses selling building
materials.
There is no local Chamber of Commerce or Hotel Association, but the Small Business
Association has 1800 members representing 90 different categories of commercial and
industrial enterprises.
4.4.5 Cultural Environment
The region was called Kyssus in the ancient times. The port of Erythrai (Ildir) was one of
the important cities of Ionia. Findings discovered in Mordogan near Erythrai showed first
residence in the region in the Bronze Age. The name Erythrai was derived from Erythros,
which is the Greek term for red or a reddish colour. It means Red City, as a result of the
colour of the soil. According to an other legend, Erythrai took its name from Rhadamanthes
of Crete's son Erthros. According to other sources, the city was establish by lonians who
gave the name of their motherland to their new city.
Although there are many archaeological sites on the Cesme Peninsula, no activity is seen
today. There are two historical places in C,e§me, namely Ce,me Castle and the ancient
theatre and ruins in Ildir.
In the museum in Ce,me Castle, there are archaeological and ethnographic works and coins.
The castle was constructed in the 15th century on an area of 2 ha. Approximately 35,000
Turkish and 20,000 foreign tourists visit the castle each year.
4-10



It is known that there are many sunken wrecks off the Ge§me coasts. One of them lies north
of ;e§me harbour. Studies are carried out by authorities from Bodrum Museum.
In Qe§me, several places are taken under archaeological protection. These are:-
1st. Degree Archaeological Site Areas
* 1 km2 area around Deniz Limam on the Dalyan Peninsula;
* Approximately 4 ha south of Baba Limam on the Dalyan Peninsula;
* Approximately 2 km2 area to the south of Reisdere village;
* 1 km2 area around Karak6y; and
* Ildir village.
2nd. Degree Archaeological Site Areas
* Approximately 0.5 km2 area around Baba Limani;
* Kalem Peninsula east of Boyalik Limam; and
* Approximately 2 km2 area to the south of Ildir village.
3rd. Degree Archaeological Site Areas
* Approximately 1 km2 south of Kalem Peninsula;
* Approximately 0.5 km2 north Deniz Limam;
, Approximately 0.3 km' south of Baba Limam; and
_ Approximately 0.3 km2 at Qayiriqi, south west of (iftlikkoy.
It should be noted that the 1st Degree area south of Reisdere is now partially submerged
under the new Alacati Dam reservoir.
The present protection zones (archeological, natural and reservoir) in the ;e§me area are
shown on Drawing No. ATK/CES/FRJ04. The prohibitions with respect to the classification
of protection zones are given in Table 4.5.
Table 4.5 Archeological Protection Zones
Classification of Protection Zone               Prohibition
1st Degree Archoeological             All types of physical activities in zone are
Protection Zone                        prohibited.
2nd & 3rd Degree Archaeological        After the approval of the Cultural andl
Protection Zone                        Natural Protection Council, under the
supervision of an archaeologist, excavation is
allowed.
Urban Protection Zone                  After the approval of the Cultural and
Natural Protection Council, excavation
and/or construction are allowed.
4-11



None of these are within the areas to be affected directly by the Project.
4.4.6 Public Health
Potable water in Qe§me is derived from both public and private supplies. The water comes
from numerous sources and very few, if any, are monitored or controlled. This situation is
obviously undesirable since the overall quality of the water will vary considerably from place
to place and source to source.
The population of Ce§me-Alaqati increases greatly in the summer, creating demands for
potable water and water for domestic purposes at a time when rainfall and the water table
are low, temperatures are high, and the availability of good quality water is limited. The
practice of supplementing the public supply with private supplies of unknown quality from
wells is potentially hazardous, particularly if the water is consumed without further
treatment.
In discussion with Health Department officials in both Qe§me and Alacati, they considered
that there was no current evidence or problem of any regular or general gastro-intestinal or
other infection, which could be the result of water supply or sea water pollution. However,
several incidents of private well pollution, due to the close proximity of septic tanks, were
reported in Alagati. Most houses have private wells. Incidences of dermatological illnesses
were also reported by foreign tourists, after bathing in the thermal waters of Ilica Beach.
Although no detailed medical records were available, some summary data on bacteriological
tests carried out on Municipal drinking water and bathing waters since 1990 were provided
by 4e§me Sub-Provincial Health Dept. These are shown in Table 4.6.
Table 4.6 Summary of Drinking and Bathing Water Tests 1990-95
Year                  1990 | 1991 | 1992 _ 1993 | 1994 | 1995
No. of Drinking Water Samples          34    58    43    86    70    76
% Failure                              44    60    51   65    81    70
No. of Bathing Water Samples           102   152   145   144   136   152
% Failure                              49    15    33       2     6      9
While the accuracy of test results was not verified during the Study, the general picture
presented was of concern, in particular the apparent consistently high rate of failure of
Municipal drinking water supplies. Further examination of the results showed that the
failures were almost exclusively from public fountains, which have now been closed.
4.4.7 Public Attitudes
An informal questionnaire survey was carried out in January 1996 to assess the attitudes of
the inhabitants of Ce§me and Alacati regarding the environmental conditions in the
Municipalities. The sampled population was limited and, because of the time of year, was
restricted to year round residents, so the results should be considered indicative only. While
4-12



a significant majority of the respondents (85%) believed the sea water to be clean, all of
them stated that they believed the water supply to be of poor quality and they were unhappy
with this situation. At the time of the survey, respondents were all obtaining their water
from fountains or artesian wells. Although over half of the sample believed the overall
environmental quality of the area to be good or very good, a third stated that they had
suffered health problems which they believed to be due to environmental conditions or poor
water quality.
4-13



I



5.0 POTENTIAL IMPACT OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT
5.1  Impacts of §eeme-Alacati Wastewater System
5.1.1 Alasati Wastewater Treatment Plant
The proposed site for the Alaqati wastewater treatment plant was largely dictated by the
design already being implemented through Iller Bank. In assessing the environmental
impacts of the works, it should be noted that:-
*    the site lies in an isolated hill area far from habitation, (See Photograph 6.5 in
Section 6);
*    the area has already been disturbed by construction of the trunk sewer to and from
the site;
*    no construction work is required under Phase 1;
*    the area is scrub land and construction of the works would have no impact on soils,
agriculture or groundwater;
*    no visual impact would result from the works due to the isolated nature of the site;
-    although the site lies within a 1st Degree Natural Protection Zone, the selected site
is not considered to be of high floristic quality, however construction activities could
result in temporary disturbance to local fauna; and
*    there are no residential properties near the site, so dust, noise and odour issues are
not likely to be a problem.
Following completion of the works and commissioning of the recently constructed sea outfall
there will be an increase in the level of wastewater discharged to the sea. However
modelling carried out of the predicted flows and effluent quality achieved by the preliminary
treatment has indicated that Turkish Water Quality Standards will be met. Bathing and
water sports activities on the south coast of the peninsula are limited at this particular
outfall location. Within this area there are no designated shell fisheries and limited
commercial or recreational fishing activities.
In tandem with this localised reduction in marine water quality around the outfall, there will
be significant improvements to surface water quality, aesthetics and public health risk at the
locations where sewage is currently disposed by tanker. On completion of the sewerage
system, all septage will be required to be discharged to the system. There should also be a
significant beneficial impact on groundwater quality (and consequently public health) in the
Qe§me-Alagati area as the present septic tanks are phased out. This is likely to be a gradual
improvement but should, nonetheless, be significant.
The potential impact on groundwater in the locality is not considered significant. Since
ground disturbance for construction of the works will be fairly limited, the main risk to the
aquifer would be from accidental spillage of oil or chemicals. Neither of these will be
stored at the site in Phase 1. If in the future full biological treatment is required small
quantities of diesel fuel and chernicals will be used. These will be held in secure holding
areas designed to contain any accidental spillage.
5-1



Future construction of the works in what is an open area will inevitably lead to a certain
level of adverse visual impact, however there are no potential receptors. Visual impact is
likely to be worst during the construction phase.
The plant will have an insignificant impact on terrestrial ecology, since the site has limited
nature conservation interest. No trees will be lost. Although the site lies within a Natural
Protection Zone, the scale of the development is too small to have an adverse impact. The
environmental improvement resulting from the Project as a whole must be seen as beneficial
to the aim of protecting the environment of the peninsula.
Commissioning of the sea existing outfall may have a localised adverse impact on the marine
ecology. Although the marine ecology of the area is of relatively limited amenity value it
is still significant in the local context and therefore the impact of the outfall should be
monitored. The organic material content of the effluent may become food for fish.
However, the initial impact on the fish must also be observed. It is likely that fishing and
the living conditions in the marine enviromnent will be affected. There are many
economically important species of fish at the discharge point. Some of them (e.g. Gobius
niger) thrive in polluted waters and some (e.g. Mugil capito, Mugil auratus, and Diplodus
annularis) are resistant to pollution up to certain limits; but most of them, particularly the
Sparidae family, prefer clean areas. It is possible that these species may disappear from the
immediate area.
The benthic marine ecology within the coastal zone is mainly determined by physical
sediment type, with slight underlying influences from sewerage discharges to the area, and
the oceanographic nature (high salinity, high temperature) of the area. In general the species
are typical of semi-enclosed seas of this latitude, with relatively low species diversity and
abundance. Within the coastal zone there are no designated shell fisheries, and little
significant commercial and recreational fishery activities.
Although the benthic species along the outfall route will have been disturbed, during
construction in Sept. 1995, these impacts should not have been significant given the low
species diversity and abundance categorisation of the DEU baseline survey in the area. The
route will be quickly recolonised by similar and new species in the peripheral vicinity. There
are only very few local species sensitive to suspended sediment settlement impacts in the
area, and as such the impact of the trenching activities is likely to have been insignificant.
The operation of the new outfall will provide considerable benefits to the ecology of the
area. The significant improvements in water quality will enhance the quality and health of
shellfish, crustaceans and fin fish in the discharge area.
Construction machinery may cause noise during the construction process. Since current
ambient noise levels in the area are low, this would have an adverse impact on those few
properties near the site but fortunately none are present. To protect site staff, measures will
be taken to ensure that noise levels do not exceed the limits laid down in the Workers
Health and Work Safety Regulations. If the limits are reached, then ear defenders will be
distributed to all staff. Operational noise levels will not be significant.
5-2



After the commissioning of the treatment plant, there may be occasional odour emissions.
The odour will become more noticeable during high summer temperatures. However, odour
is not considered a very significant problem because the site is situated in an isolated upland
area exposed to the prevailing winds and for from residential areas.
After the construction of the treatment plant, insects and flies may be seen in and around
the plant. Again, any nuisance will be localised and of low significance given the distance
from residential areas.
There is potential for the generation of dust emissions during the construction period. It
should be possible to minimise them by adopting a number of control measures.
The treatment plant is not envisaged to have any significant effect on land use. The
adjacent land is not used for agriculture and is expected to remain undeveloped. The works
will generate between 20 and 30 jobs for local people during the construction period.
Sludge will not be produced in Phase 1. Screenings and grit will not be stored on site but
removed automatically from the plant, bagged and promptly transferred to the Municipal
landfill site. No significant adverse impacts should result from this solid waste.
Conlstruction and operation of the wastewater treatment plant will have no impacts on
geology, climate, topography, future developments, archaeology or the cultural environment.
Possible future works carried out in Phase 2 of the Project would have limited potential for
significant adverse environmental impact. Phase 2 would probably involve upgrading the
works to include primary and possibly also secondary treatment which would improve the
quality of the discharged effluent although the volume would be increasing steadily over
time. The level of treatment would be specified to ensure continued compliance with water
quality standards and continued protection of key environmental uses. Sludge would
however be produced in Phase 2, and would be thickened and dewatered on site and then
removed for disposal, probably at the new sanitary landfill site. The impacts of Phase 2
would be assessed in detail at the time and any EIAs required by Turkish legislation carried
out.
If the strength of the raw wastewater in the early years is higher than anticipated,
consideration may be given to the construction of some temporary anaerobic lagoons at the
site. These would be incorporated or replaced if, or when, primary or secondary treatment
is required.
5.1.2 Wastewater Collection Systems
The other elements of the proposed improvements to, and expansion of, the wastewater
collection systems in cee§me and Alaqati have limited potential for adverse impacts.
Construction of area pumping stations and secondary sewers will have temporary localised
impacts such as noise, dust and disruption of traffic and pedestrians. This work would
however, be restricted mainly to the winter season. The works may generate up to 200 jobs
for local people during the construction period.
5-3



5.1.3 ~antiye District Wastewater System
The immediate improvements which are proposed to the existing Santiye wastewater
collection system will have very limited adverse impact. Refurbishment works at pumping
stations may have minor noise impacts and cause some disturbance to nearby residents. The
works will lead to significant local improvements in the sewerage service with the effective
removal of the existing summer overflow occurrences from the pumping stations into
residential areas and the Ihca Beach.
Construction of a new discharge tank and infiltration field on Istanbul Hill will cause
localised noise impacts but there are no properties nearby. The tank will not have a long
term visual impact. Overall the work will lead to an improvement in environmental
conditions at Istanbul Hill and in the waters of 5ifne Bay. The protection of the pumping
main to the tank will also ensure against accidental cross-contamination of the water supply
line from Ildir in the short term.
5.1.4 Impact of Retention Time and the Generation of Hydrogen Sulphide on the Sewerage
System
The major cause of sewer corrosion is hydrogen sulphide (H2S), or, more correctly, the
sulphuric acid formed from H2S on moist surfaces. Sulphides are formed under anaerobic
conditions by the action of certain bacteria on sulphates and certain amino acids. When the
system becomes aerobic again, the H2S is converted to sulphuric acid by bacteria. The
above describes the classic case of a rising main which discharges into a gravity sewer.
However, sulphide can also be produced in the slime layer of gravity sewers. Sewage rarely
becomes anaerobic in gravity systems because the flow is sufficiently turbulent to ensure that
it is adequately aerated.
H2S, a gas of only moderate solubility, can escape into the sewer atmosphere and the rate
of escape will be greatest where excessive turbulence occurs, for example in wet wells, back-
drops, manholes and gravity sewers. The unpleasant odour characteristics of sulphur is well
known and the odour threshold concentration is very low, between 0.1 and 1 ng/l. The
smell of H2S is made worse by the presence of other malodorous sulphur compounds
particularly mercaptans which are also formed in sewage under anaerobic conditions.
H2S gas is potentially dangerous because it is toxic and the ability to detect it by smell is
quickly lost as the concentration increases. Unconsciousness followed by death can occur
suddenly from concentrations of approximately 300 ppm by volume in air.
The factors which influence the production of sulphides are:-
*    Retention time. In a rising main, 10 minutes is usually long enough to give truly
anaerobic conditions. The longer the time under anaerobic conditions, the greater
the potential for sulphide production.
*    B.O.D. The higher the B.O.D. the greater the sulphide production potential. The
same applies to C.O.D.
5-4



*    Sulphate concentration.
*    Temperature. A 10°C rise in temperature can double the sulphide production.
*    Wetted surface area. This relates to the slime layer where most of the sulphide is
produced.
The system in (;e§me has a high potential for the generation of H2S due to the long
pumping mains, the high temperatures and the large variation in flows between summer and
winter. There is a 16 times variation in flow between the 2000 winter DWF and the 2020
summer peak flow. The extent of the variation leads to a compromise between retention
times, minimum velocities and pumping heads at peak flows.
Mitigating measures adopted at this stage is the phased construction of the pumping main
from TM2 to TM6. This has been sized for flows up to 2010 when a second larger main will
be required. The two mains will operate jointly in the summer and the smaller one only in
the winter thereafter. No allowance has been made at this stage for chemical addition to
prevent the formation of sulphides. At the detailed design stage, particular attention will
be paid to the prevention of turbulence at discharges and to the ventilation to keep the
chamber walls dry and hence prevent the formation of sulphuric acid forming bacteria. An
emphasis has been placed on the construction of network sewers in the phasing of
expenditure, within the affordable limits, to give as rapid an increase in flow as possible and
hence reduce the retention times.
5.2  Impacts of Water Supply System
The assessment of groundwater potential has been based on records of test wells carried out
over many years by Iller Bank and DSi. There has been no detailed hydrogeological study
carried out covering the aquifers, particularly in the karstic limestones from which the main
Ildir Springs develop.
The extent of the hydrogeological boundaries is unknown, particularly in relation to the
known aquifers of the Sarpdere basin to the south and the Balikliova basin in the north.
It is known that these basins are connected to the Ildir aquifers and details of them are
essential to determine the total available yields from all these sources.
As has been stated previously, it is not possible to predict the impacts of the aquifer
protection works or the revised arrangements of the boreholes on groundwater levels. The
purpose of the hydrogeological study which includes the test grouting, exploratory boreholes
and test pumping, is to optimise the design of the protective measures and the revised
location of the boreholes to ensure the required quantities can be abstracted whilst meeting
the specified water quality standards.
The proposed aquifer protection works at Ildir will alter patterns of groundwater flow in the
area, with the intended effect of preventing flow of saline water into the aquifer. Before
the works are designed, the aquifer will be studied in detail. There may be a consequential
impact on marine water quality, through increased salinity. This would require careful
5-5



assessment as it may have consequential impacts on the biota of the area. There may also
be a number of construction phase disturbance impacts, depending on the nature of the
engineering activities. Current data is not sufficient to assess any of these impacts at this
stage.
As the works for aquifer protection and relocation of wells will be carried out in the vicinity
of archaeological sites, care must be taken with all excavation works to avoid any potential
damage to buried structures.
Construction of extensions to the water supply could have temporary localised impacts such
as noise, dust and disruption of traffic. This work would, however be restricted to the winter
season and since the main network has already been installed will be of limited magnitude
and significance.
The construction of the water treatment plant and pumping station, on the dedicated site
below the Alagati Dam, will have an impact during construction but these will be similar to
those currently experienced during the construction of the dam. As the plant will be seen
from the Izmir motorway the design should take into account landscaping to minirnise visual
impacts.
5.3   Impacts of Solid Waste System
5.3.1 Sanitary Landfill Site
The proposed sanitary landfill will be designed incorporating a number of measures to
minimise environmental risk, such as:-
*    leachate collection, treatment and disposal;
*    passive landfill gas ventilation and dispersion;
*    lining the site;
=    working in cells with daily cover applied; and
-    phased restoration.
The selected site is an isolated valley, at least 2km distant from any residential area; which
is not particularly suitable for agriculture and has few trees. (See Photograph 13.4 in Section
6).
Construction of the landfill site will result in some loss of soils, although both their depth
and quality are poor at the chosen site. Restoration of the site will require the importation
of suitable topsoil.
The access road to the Xe§me-Alaqati Sanitary Landfill Site is a straight, asphalted road
until the point where it intersects the underpass of the highway. After this connection, the
road leading to Alacati is a stabilised road.
The part of the road up to the underpass is open to traffic between (esne and Alacati.
However, the remaining part up to the landfill site is an unused pathway, since there are no
5-6



settlements in the surrounding. After the sanitary landfill starts to operate, this road will
be improved.
Surface waters will be intercepted at the boundaries of the site and contact with waste
avoided. The landfill will be designed to minimise leachate volumes and excess leachate will
initially be removed by tanker for disposal into an appropriate manhole on the new
sewerage system. If the quantities merit it in future, on- site treatment will be installed.
There should be no significant adverse impact on surface waters.
The site is not located in a groundwater protection zone and there are no known
abstractions within a 2km  radius.  Nevertheless the underlying ground, where no
groundwater appears up to 50 metres below ground level, will be protected by clay liner and
an HDPE liner (which will have a maximum acceptable permeability of 109mrs).
The topography of the immediate area will be altered by the landfill operations, which will
gradually fill an area which is currently a broad valley. The altered landform will not be
visible from any residential areas.
The landfill will inevitably have adverse local visual and landscape impacts. Filling the site
in cells, covering the waste daily, and providing phased restoration will reduce this impact.
There is the potential for windblown litter if not properly controlled. The significance of
these aspects is reduced by the lack of nearby receptors.
An area of ecological habitat will be lost to the site, which was recently removed from a 2nd
Degree Natural Protection Zone. Some olive trees will have to be removed. It is difficult
to assess the impact on ecology in the absence of detailed field surveys, however, it will
probably be of local significance only. The phased restoration of the site will, however, offer
the opportunity for habitat creation.
Noise impacts will be restricted to site workers, who will be issued with ear defenders if
necessary to ensure that noise levels do not exceed the limits laid down in the Workers
Health and Work Safety Regulations.
To prevent possible odour ernissions, wastes in the landfill will be compacted and covered
with at least 15cm depth of daily cover. Landfill gas will be ventilated passively. In future,
it may be extracted actively from the site and burnt in an enclosed flare. Modern flares are
highly effective at destroying Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) which, if not controlled,
can lead to unpleasant odours. The proposed gas control system will also minimise
explosion risk. Although vermin and insect risk is low, pesticides will be applied if any
problems arise.
The site has the potential for considerable amounts of dust to be produced during the
excavation and construction works and the operation of the landfill. Although there are no
residential properties within 2km of the site, dust mitigation measures will need to be
adopted.
The landfill site would constitute a temporary change in land use, but this is not considered
5-7



incompatible with the locality. A number of local jobs would be created in construction and
operation of the site, however this should be offset against those few jobs presently
associated with the existing landfill site which would be closed.
Contrary to open dumps, fires in waste cells of the landfill are uncommon, as the gas
generated is collected and vented with a passive system and, in addition, wastes are covered
with a layer of soil daily. However, in case of fire, a tanker and a bulldozer will be used to
control the fire and the surface water water collection channel surrounding the site and the
control road will decrease the risk of fire spreading.
5.3.2 Rehabilitation of Existing Dump Sites
Once the new sanitary landfill site is operational, the existing dump site in Qe,me will be
rehabilitated. This procedure will involve a number of measures including the provision of:-
* surface water drainage;
* leachate drainage;
* gas venting;
* slope stability measures; and
* final cover.
The site will be landscaped to blend into the existing environment.
1The abandoned dump site, adjacent to Alaqati Dai, should also be investigated to
determine the extent of any ground and groundwater contamination. The waste mass has
recently been removed and replaced and the area suitably landscaped.
5.4   Summary of Impacts and Benefits
The completion of the sewerage networks in (e§me and Alacati, the construction of
preliminary wastewater treatment works, and the disposal of the effluent by sea outfall will
have significant positive impacts and aesthetics at locations where raw sewage is currently
discharged. There should, over time, be consequential benefits for tourism and public health.
There will be a number of short-term construction phase impacts (noise, dust, traffic, visual
intrusion) and commissioning of the new sea outfall may have a localised adverse impact
on marine ecology. These will be more than offset by the benefits of the Project.
The aquifer protection works and other improvement works to the water supply sources and
network will result in improved groundwater quality and management anad conservation of
groundwater resources. The proposed works at Ildir do, however, have the potential for a
number of adverse impacts (marine, archaeological, noise and vibration), which must be
addressed as the nature of work required is finalised.
Provision of a sanitary landfill site will significantly reduce the environmental impact of solid
waste disposal in the area, however, a number of minor adverse impacts will be inevitable.
There is significant scope for effective mitigation of all these issues.
5-8



6.0 ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES TO THE PROPOSED PROJECT
6.1   The Do-Nothing Option
The do-nothing option for 41e§me and Alacati would mean that only the present programme
of Iller Bank funded works would continue. This work has proceeded very slowly in the past
and there is no reason to believe that the future would be any different.
In terms of wastewater, there would be continued slow implementation of the Iller Bank
sewerage and sewage treatment scheme, with eventual provision of two Municipal plants
providing a level of treatment which this Study has concluded to be unnecessary at present
under current Turkish legislation. In addition, there is concern over the operating efficiency
of some parts of the sewer network under the reduced flows that are expected, at least in
the short term.
The slower implementation of a piped sewerage network would result in delayed
replacement of the existing septic tanks and the continuation of the problems of septic tank
waste disposal and groundwater and marine contamination. Conditions at Istanbul Hill and
in the 5antiye area would also further deteriorate, the latter potentially adversely effecting
tourism. Health risks, through possible contauination of water supplies, will remain.
'The key problems associated with the water supply arrangements for the Municipalities
would continue. In particular the water quality of the Ildir source would further deteriorate
as the saline intrusion becomes more widespread. In the medium term the area would
probably experience supply problems due to not being able to maximise the potential of the
Ildir source. The current level of leakage from the system would continue.
Solid waste collection and disposal would continue as at present with gradual worsening of
the current environmental impacts particularly in the summer. The continued use of the
Qesme landfill would sustain the health and groundwater risks and environmental impacts
associated with an essentially uncontrolled site. In the urban areas the waste collection
problems experienced during the peak summer months would steadily worsen.
6.2   Alternative Wastewater Collection and Treatment Options
During the Study period, several treatment options for wastewater collection, treatment and
disposal were assessed and three main options defined:-
Option 1: Generally as the Iller Bank design with two separate sewage treatment plants,
but modified to suit the revised flows from the latest agreed population
projections. Refer to Drawing No. ATK/CES/FR/06.
Option 2: A single treatment works at Cesme to serve both Municipalities.
Option 3: A single treatment works at Alacati to serve both Municipalities.
Within the framework of these options, four possible sites for the Qe§me treatment plant
6-1



KEY LFANflC                                                               lJp-
COLLEt   SYSTEM/ TOPLAMA SISTEMI    NETWORK SEWER/ SEBEKE BORULARI  V
L- ___ _ AEAEIPMENT PLAN BLNARY AMHAKAA'I A  NAINRK SEWES
(  _ P II A SI  1   A V IIY   Al I)  I R IS S IIII      I S I  : I   P I AP  S W R  D I N\
PALSI....ANLN II.'I.S Ifl  L'PIE    IllI IKI'AISi S  NJI WASP   ,AWARS
I ASAMA tAZRE VE BASASL BLFU NA Il  U l I KIEN. ASAMAtAR SEUVE  BORaARYAI  /)
a'          ~~~~~~~~~N PHASE I PLAMPING MAAAS                                                            FUAP! PHASE 
3d                                    NI\ t / , ASAMA FENR NA NLAR                                      ' AEELECLKIEK, ASAMAA                                    -
FEWAIA  PHASFS GRANVITY PIPEI INE  P11E,~ALL
mI~                               '                    ----  LAA(ILIKL ASAAMAIALl I A/LA IA lANA  A   I1N! AIAM AIK          It AS I                 / A
*/                          -     27g ___  FLIIIUQE PHASES PUMPFNO MANS                    WASLEMW ALER AIAIAL Al PIANI PIA NT
NKOY         Clh  fjEIEE[fKEKI ASAMALAA  LEfINA LIARA  AIKSII  ASkILMA 7tS15J
xCY   \  rOAEYANKbY  - - _ (ACAI['ENA BOULNAEYN
A     lkm                     A I                             A NAVIA SNRI                                                                /
SCAlE   LA. APPAPA
0, ECK Y^K^KAmX atEA$K t 2 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
LANA                                                                                     ALA? A
AM1MA.  -                                                             IFNE
- -. -  AN'.ALIAS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIMIAN                                                IV~ 
CESHE                                                  TMLA
-A  2                              -- LAN                               (I~~~~~~~  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERM'YAN  (
ENA S   2 
~~   AIAEANAA SIT A  S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'s  Cs      O-AIES
T    (A AS A .>Z T''AE                                     NC
I  A.    K 'I-
A<SX C S4 N,AEL           A-             If                                                  x                                                   IDI 1
A  X  A  CM    A                                                    ,                                                             Sr
OVACIK SOl)IH   | ourrAtc   X       \,          \        < >                             />/t                  FEA18TY 0$  aR eES
I UN ETGEL OENIZI                                                            i NESEA VON.
PRO IPLD WATWATRCiU
MAN    AL TINKUEl    AMAN~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AOOSOA SSU
: OUTFACL                                                                   acerZ-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ESOSLSYT?
0 DE5ARJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E [AJss
EGE DENIZI
-          AN~~~2-OSN9



were assessed together with the previously defined site for the Alagati plant. Two levels of
treatment were also considered.
Level 1: Preliminary treatment only to 2020.
Level 2: Preliminary treatment to 2010 then full treatment to 2020.
Option 3 was subsequently recommended and is discussed in Section 3.
6.2.1 Option 1 - Two Separate Collection and Treatment Systems
This option would retain the iller Bank scheme presently under construction and involve the
use of two separate collection, treatment and marine disposal outfalls for Qe,me and
Alacati.
This option was rejected for the following reasons:-
*     Although the cost of this Option is the lowest when a preliminary standard of
treatment is retained until the year 2020, if a higher standard of treatment is
required at some future date then this option becomes the most expensive in terms
of both capital and NPV costs.
*     There are expected to be greater operation and maintenance problems when
operating two separate systems due to the splitting of what is already considered to
be a very low wastewater flow, particularly in the early years.
*     The construction of a treatment plant in the valley south of Qe§me would result in
the use of some of the only remaining good agricultural land in the area.
*     This option would result in the discharge to the marine environment at two locations
on the south coast, with the Qe§me outfall discharging from one of the most popular
beaches at Altinkum.
6.2.2   Option 2 - One Combined System with a Treatment Plant at Ce§me
This option would transfer all wastewater from Alacati to Qe§me and utilise a single
treatment plant and outfall.
This option was rejected for the following reasons:-
*     The cost of this option was the highest in both capital and NPV cost, for both
preliminary and full treatment cases.
*     As in Option 1, it would require the siting of the treatment plant and acquisition of
land in the agricultural valley south of Qe§me.
6-2



*    To provide sufficient flow capacity until the year 2020, the existing outfall would
need to be duplicated in the future.
6.23  Alternative Levels of Treatment
The Iller Bank scheme (Option 1), which has been partially constructed, provides for full
secondary treatment at both ;e§me and Alacati treatment plants. Following a review of the
initial dilution and dispersion characteristics of the outfalls constructed under the Iller Bank
scheme, it was concluded that the water quality standards in terms of Total Coliforms, will
be met with only preliminary treatment. Compliance with the B.O.D. and C.O.D. standards
in the Turkish Regulations may be borderline; however, representative sewage samples are
not yet available and therefore an expedient solution has been adopted, within the
affordable financial constraints, to place the emphasis of expenditure on the network sewers
to lead to a rapid increase in flows as possible. This is required to alleviate the potential
for septicity in the system leading to corrosion and odour problems.
Following monitoring during Phase 1, consideration could be given to the construction of
temporary anaerobic lagoons to reduce the strength of the wastewater. This impact on the
marine environment of domestic sewage at strengths exceeding the Turkish Regulations is
not considered significant in relation to the potential problems within the sewerage system
if the available expenditure was diverted to the construction of at least a primary treatment
works.
The option of treating the wastewater to a standard which would permit beneficial effluent
reuse was also considered. To meet Turkish and World Health Organisation standards,
disinfection would be required as well as secondary (and possibly also tertiary) treatment.
This option has been rejected for Phase 1 on economic grounds, but should be reviewed in
the future, particularly if secondary treatment is provided.
6.2.4 Temporary Treatment of Septic Tank Waste
To eliminate the current discharge of septic tank waste from tankers at numerous sites
around the peninsula, a scheme was considered to construct centres for the treatment and
disposal of these wastes. Two reception and treatment centres were proposed to reduce
tanker travel times. Because this would only be a temporary solution, until the sewerage
network and wastewater treatment plants were commissioned, only low cost technical
solutions were considered.
This option was rejected on grounds of potentially unacceptable environmental impact
(particularly groundwater pollution, odour, noise and disturbance from tanker traffic) and
cost. The overall environmental improvement on the existing situation, while significant,
would be difficult to justify economically as a temporary measure.
6-3



6.2.5  Alternative Sites for ;e§me Wastewater Treatment Plant
The locations available for the §e,eme wastewater treatment plant were limited by the fact
that the main sewer and outfall had already been constructed. Four options were considered:
Site 1, which was the site selected by Iller Bank; Site 2, to the north west of Site 1; and Sites
3 and 4 to the south west of Site 1, Refer to Drawing No. ATK/CES/FR/06.
Site 1 is situated to the northwest of the village of Ovacik, on the saddle of the valley at the
highest point near the pumping main between Ce§me and the sea outfall. The area is good
agricultural land, the loss of which was considered an unacceptable environmental and
economic impact. See Photograph 6.4.
Site 2 is 400 m northwest of Site 1, to the south of §e,eme Karadag and to the north of the
area where excavated material from the construction of the Izmir motorway has been
dumped. It is on a lower level than the site proposed by the Iller Bank. Most of this land
is privately owned and used for agriculture. It is within a 1st Degree Natural Protection
Area and close to the new motorway. It was rejected on the grounds of potential acquisition
difficulties, loss of agricultural land and pumping requirements to the outfall due to its lower
elevation.
Site 3 is 700 m southwest of Site 1 on higher, uncultivated and mainly private ground. Part
of the site may lie within the 1st Degree Natural Protection Area. As the area is at on
elevation of about 80 m ASL, an intermediate pumping station would be required. The site
was rejected on the grounds of potential acquisition difficulties and cost due to additional
pumping.
Site 4 is 500 m south west of Site 1 and close to Site 3 but at a lower elevation. The land
is partially owned by the Treasury, is uncultivated and lies outside the Protection Zone. It
was therefore considered as the best alternative to Site 1 for the location of a treatment
plant.
6.2.6  Alternative Sites for Ala,ati Treatment Plant
As with Qe§me, the locations available for the Alacati wastewater treatment plant were
limited by the fact that the main sewer and outfall had already been constructed. In this
case, it is understood that the site has already been acquired by the Alacati Municipality so,
as no major constraints to the site were identified, no alternatives were considered. See
Photograph 6.5.
6.2.7  Alternative Treatment Processes
Although the secondary treatment plant is not expected to be built until some time in the
future, alternative forms of treatment were considered to the conventional activated sludge
process presently under design by Iller Bank. Waste stabilisation ponds and oxidation
ditches were also reviewed.
Although more economical to operate, stabilisation ponds had a large land-take and were
6-4



PhotoaraPh 6.4
QeFme Treatment
Plant Site
Fotoaraf 6.4
gesme Atnksu Aritma
Tesisi Sahasi
Photograoh 6.5
Ala;atb Treatment
Plant Site
Foto6raf 6.5
Alagati Attksu Aritma
Tesisi Sahasi
:.~
Photograph 6.6
I;e5me Ouffall Site
FotoDraf 6.6
Q,e*me Deniz De*arj
Sahasi



therefore not pursued due to the general limitations on the site, which is in a 1st Degree
Natural Protection Zone. Smaller anaerobic lagoons were considered as a possible
temporary solution, should the wastewater prove to be stronger than anticipated and require
some treatment prior to discharge.
Oxidation ditches would be an acceptable alternative to conventional activated sludge, but
a financial analysis indicated that they could be slightly more expensive. Should secondary
treatment be required in future, it is recomnmended that both conventional activated sludge
and oxidation ditches be considered in the light of economics and technology advances at
that time.
63    Alternative Water Supply Options
Options for alternative water supplies are extremely limited since capital investment has
already taken place at the Ildir Springs and the Alacati Dam. The only alternative to
aquifer protection work at Ildir would be to decrease the volume of water abstracted. This
is not a viable alternative in the short term since the current lack of a treatment plant at the
Alacati Dam restricts the value of this supply as an alternative.
6.4    Alternative Solid Waste Options
6.4.1  Alternative Treatment and Disposal Methods
Those alternative solid waste treatment/disposal methods considered as part of the Study
were:-
*    recycling;
*    composting;
*    sanitary landfill; and
*    incineration.
Recycling can only ever be achieved for a proportion of the waste streari and one or more
disposal routes is still required for the non-recyclable waste component. Problems with this
option would be the general lack of awareness, and the low proportion of suitable
commercial waste in the area (for which recycling is more feasible). The cost of recycling
is 10-20 US$/t depending on operation modus. It has been proposed to set up a pilot
recycling project in (e§me-Alaqati to assess the long term potential for developing recycling
as a significant means of waste management in the area.
Composting relies on the biological decomposition of organic wastes. The product obtained
as compost is rich in humus and other nutrients and hygienically safe. Compost can play
an important role in increasing soil fertility. The cost of composting technique is 30-50
US$/t depending on the composting process. The proportion of domestic waste in the area
which is suitable for composting has been estimated at approximately 40%. Given the lack
of local experience and information and the fact that an alternative disposal method would
still be required for the inorganic waste component, it has been proposed to limit
composting to a pilot plant to assess the long term potential for developing it as a significant
6-5



means of waste management in Ge§me-Alaqati.
Incineration has the advantages of reduction of waste volume and the potential for energy
recovery. Its disadvantages include high operating costs and concerns over atmospheric
emissions. Incineration is the most expensive method among the others and its cost is 50-
100 US$/t. Public perception of incinerators is also poor and it might be considered an
unsuitable option for an area dominated by tourism. Incineration was rejected for these
reasons and also because the calorific value of waste in the area is not sufficiently high in
the winter due to the high proportion of ash present.
6.4.2  Alternative Landfill Sites
Alternative locations for the sanitary landfill proposed for the Project are summarised in
Table 6.1
Table 6.1    Options for Sanitary Landfill Site
[     Site      L      Location                                                            p
1 A, B               East of Ovacik Village
2 A, B, C             South-east of Ovacik Village
3 A, B, C             East of Germiyan Village
4                     Zeytinli
The site of the existing solid waste dump at Qeame was rejected as a possible site for the
sanitary landfill because of limited capacity and proximity to a drinking water well,
agricultural land and residential areas.
An important criterion in the evaluation of the landfill site options was the potential
capacity of the candidate sites. A capacity of 800,000rn3 is estimated to be required to the
year 2020.
Site 1: East of Ovacik Village
The location of this site is 5 km from Qe§me and 3 km from Alacati, and the site is
composed of two cells, west (1A) and east (1B). The site is reached by the road which
accesses the current landfill site to the south of Ce§me, which is hilly and very steep for the
last 2km. The nearest residence to the site is Ovacik village, 2km to the west. There is a
6-6



DSI water abstraction well 1km south-west of the site.
Both Sites 1A and 1B are in a drainage basin and connected to the Payam stream. This dry
stream is connected to a dry creek bed and flows to the south-west to the sea. Both sites
comprise valleys surrounded by hills on 3 sides. Municipality staff have stated that the site
ownership is part public part private. Flat areas in the valleys are used for agricultural
purposes, and other parts of the site are covered with bushes. The site is not situated in a
protection zone relating to groundwater, surface water or catchment areas. However, the site
is in a 2nd Degree Natural Protection Zone.
Sites 1A and 1B were rejected because of doubts on whether either had adequate capacity.
Site 2: South-east of Ovacik Village
Sites 2A, 2B and 2C are located 11 km from Qesme and 7 km from Alaqati, and are reached
from ;e§me via Ovaclk and directly from Alagati by a track which crosses under the new
Izmir motorway. The sites are all valleys between low hills. There is no residential area
within 1 km of the site. See Photographs 13.3 and 13.4.
Surface water was observed flowing on Site 2C during precipitation. There are DSI water
abstraction wells 2km north and 2.5km north-east of the site. A dry creek connecting to
Kabacelek Creek begins on the western edge of Site 2A This branch is connected to
Biiyiikdere stream and flows west to the sea. The eastern side of Site 2B is connected to
the dry bed of the Alanclk stream.
Sites 2A and 2C are partially privately owned. Site 2B is publicly owned. The flatter parts
of Site 2A are used for agriculture, Site 2B is generally barren land and is used for
occasional grazing of sheep. Site 2C is presently scrub. The sites are not situated in a
protection zone relating to groundwater, surface water or catchment areas. Sites 2A and
2C however remain in a 2nd Degree Natural Protection Zone.
Site 2B was selected as the optimum site for the sanitary landfill due its topography and its
isolated and selfcontained location. Sites 2A and 2C were rejected because 2A would entail
a significant loss of agricultural land and 2C has insufficient capacity for the predicted waste
volumes. Both 2A and 2C are also in locations exposed to view from the motorway.
Site 3: East of Germiyan Village
The location of the Sites 3A, 3B and 3C is 18 km from ;esme and 10 km from Alagati. The
sites are all located in valleys. Site 3A is accessed most of the way by the asphalted Alaqati
- Germiyan road; Site 3B is reached by a poor quality track and Site C is 1 kln to the east.
There is no residence within 1 km of the site and no groundwater abstractions near the site.
The three sites all have typical valley characteristics.
Sites 3A and 3B are currently barren land, and Site 3C is used for agriculture. The former
two are believed to be publicly owned and the latter to be in private ownership. The sites
are situated on the border the 4th Degree Protection Zone of the Alacatx reservoir, and are
6-7



Photociraph 13.3
Solid Waste Site 2A                                                                                                                            ...:
Fototiraf 13.3 tSlr at ie2
.........                               Photoaraph 13.4
Solid Waste Site,-
S                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- -  -, ~~~~~~~~ -                         -Foo&ti3-
-~~~~~~---  -t ~ ~ ~ ~    ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      KtiAikShai2



also within a 1st Degree Natural Protection Zone.
It is believed that Sites 3A and 3B do not have the required capacity. Given the agricultural
usage of Site 3C and its location in the Alagati Reservoir Protection Zone, Site 3C has also
been rejected.
Site 4: Zeytinli
Site 4, proposed as a possible regional solution for 12 municipalities including qesme,
Alacati and Urla, is situated 5 km south of Uzunkuyu and 2 km east of Zeytinli Village.
However, the distance of the site from ;e§me and Alagati would exceed 30 km and it is
located in a 1st Degree Natural Protection Zone. Site 4 was therefore rejected.
6.43   Transfer Station Option
The use of transfer stations was considered as part of the solid waste disposal system, in
order to increase the efficiency of the collection and transportation systems in the summer.
Three transfer stations were considered to be built in ;e§me and Alagati in three phases,
with one built in Phase 1 and the other two added in the Phase 2. (Refer to Drawing No.
ATK/CES/FR/09).
The proposed transfer station sites had not been finalised, but the initial Transfer Station
will probably have been located on high ground in the Sakizkoyun Qiftligi area to the south-
east of Cesme. This site is 300m from the existing landfill and about 2km from the centre
of Qe§me.
However, during the cost analyses carried out to compare the waste collection with and
without the transfer stations, it was clear that their inclusion could not be justified on
econormic grounds. Their use was therefore not pursued.
6.5    Costs of Alternative Options
Cost estimates have been prepared for the various options considered together with the
necessary improvements to the existing systems.
Table 6.1 summarises both the total Capital costs and the Net Present Value (NPV) costs,
inclusive of operational and maintenance costs to 2020 for the wastewater options. The
target cost for the tariff for cost recovery is $1.0/m3.
6-8



Table 6.1    Comparision of Capital and NPV Costs for Sewerage and Treatment Options
(us$ 1,000)
Option                  Level A                          Level B
Preliminary Treatment Only        Staged Full Treatment *
.____________ .Capital                NPV**           Capital           NPV**
1                45,460          27,879           64,330           38,433
2                52,092          31,753           64,615           39,524
3                45,828          27,992           58,021           35,440
Notes:
(1)    The capital costs are inclusive of price contingencies based on international US $
price adustment, 10% engineering costs and 15% overall physical contingency.
(2)    Operating costs are inclusive of replacement investments, energy consumption at
0.09 $/kWh, chemicals, and disposal charges. Full treatment energy costs for Level
B is 50% higher due the higher at $0.135/kWh industrial rates charged.
3      nPreliminary treatment until 2010 then full treatment thereafter.
**    Discount rate used was 5%.
In the case of water supplies and solid waste disposal, no alternative scenarios were
available.
The total proposed physical investment costs at January 1996 prices for the whole scheme
based on the requirements, and including the most cost effective options, are as follows:-
Water Supply Components: US $ 14,773,000
Wastewater Components   US $ 47,669,000
Solid Waste Components: US $  11,226,000
TOTAL US $ 73,668,000
These total costs exclude 10% for engineering services, a 15% overall price contingency sum
and price escalation contingency.
Following the analysis of Municipal affordability, the Proposed Investment Programme has
a basic value of US$ 73.7 million of which approximately 22%  or US$ 16.5 million is
required for implementing the reduced Phase 1 Project Works.
6-9



7.0 MITIGATION AND MONITORING ACTION PLAN
7.1   Proposed Mitigation Measures
7.1.1 Alasati Wastewater Treatment Plant
Under the current design parameters, the Alaqati wastewater treatment plant site will not
be required to be developed until Phase 2 of the Project.
In future, if and when the development of a plant to provide preliminary or full treatment
is necessary, the following rnitigation measures would be required. These should be reviewed
in detail at the time, but a preliminary list is as follows:-
*    scheduling of all work outside the summer tourist season if necessary;
*    undertaking of aesthetic improvements to the outside of the facilities, including
planting of trees/shrubs around the future boundary and designation of a buffer zone
around the plant;
*    liaison with local residents for all construction activities; and
e    during construction, any site run-off should be passed through settlement ponds to
minimise discharge of suspended sediments;
3    any chemicals/fuels must be stored in sealed, bunded areas and all practicable
measures taken to avoid any spillages;
*    ensuring that screenings are promptly bagged and grit safely removed from the site.
-    any wastewater produced during the construction period should be tankered to the
nearest Municipality sewer for discharge;
*    provide ear defenders to all construction workers if necessary;
*    control dust during the construction phase by damping with water sprays or bowsers,
use of wheel washes before vehicles enter public highways, restricting earth moving
in windy conditions, and covering of soil stockpiles;
*    restriction of construction traffic, particularly vehicles importing aggregate, to suitable
routes (avoiding residential and tourist areas where possible) and normal working
hours;
*    adoption of similar restrictions for sludge traffic; and
*    review all options for sludge reuse and undertake EIA if reuse proposed at a future
date.
7.1.2 Wastewater Collection Systems
The following mitigation measures will be required to minimise the adverse impacts of the
proposed completion and expansion of the wastewater collection system in the Munipalities:-
*     all work in urban areas to avoid summer tourist season;
*    liaison with traffic police, utilities and local residents to minimise disruption from
pipe-laying;
*    use of well-maintained, sound suppressed equipment and acoustic screens for
pipelaying were necessary in residential areas.
*     installation, operation and maintenance of odour control equipment at pumping
7-1



stations where necessary;
*    increase in flow as much as possible to reduce retention times;
*    prevention of turbulence at discharges; and
*    ventilation to keep the chamber walls dry and to prevent the formation of sulphuric
acid forming bacteria.
7.1.3 Water Supply System
To minimise possible adverse impacts of the works, which are proposed to alleviate
problems with the current water supply system, the following mitigation measures should be
carried out:-
*    liaison with officials from the Ministry of Culture and any other archaeological
authorities regarding planned works at Ildir;
*     extensive monitoring of extent, depths, flow patterns and quality of Ildir aquifer
before designing protection works;
*    control noise and vibration levels during installation of curtain wall by best
practicable means;
*    liaise with traffic police, utilities and local residents to minimise disruption from
pipe-laying; and
v    use well maintained sound suppressed equipment and acoustic screens (where
necessary) for pipe-laying in residential areas.
3     carry out similar mitigative measures at the Alacati Dam treatment works, to those
listed in Section 7.1.1.
7.1.4 Solid Waste System
The proposed sanitary waste landfill is being designed to eliminate many of the impacts
which can be associated with badly engineered and uncontrolled landfill sites, however the
following mitigation measures should be adopted to ensure that adverse impacts are
minimised:-
-     erect a 3 m high litter fencing around area being filled to control wind blown litter,
and remove litter from the fence daily;
*     control dust by damping haul roads and stockpiles with water sprays or bowsers,
providing a wheel wash at the site exit, restricting earth moving in windy conditions
and covering soil stockpiles;
*     ensure surface water drainage system  is effective by regular cleaning and
maintenance of drainage channels;
*     provide site workers with ear defenders if necessary;
*     leachate will not be discharged untreated to surface or marine waters removed by
tanker and discharged to the wastewater system in accordance with the Water
Pollution Control Regulations; treatment on site should be installed when
appropriate;
*     landfill gas will be passively ventilated to the atmosphere. If required, in future, the
gas will be actively extracted and burnt in an enclosed flare of high destruction
efficiency;
7-2



*    as each phase of the site development is completed it will be capped, covered with
topsoil and restored to open space;
*    restoration plans will be approved in advance by the Municipalities;
*    landscape maintenance will be carried out for at least 10 years to ensure the success
of those species planted;
*    daily cover and gas ventilation will minimise the risk of fire;
*    use the tanker and dozer to control fire, if any;
*    pesticides used to control any vermin problems will be selected to have miniminal
environmental impact; and
*    all available topsoil to be segregated and carefully stored for use in restoration.
A sanitary landfill site may also cause an increase in the traffic on the road to the landfill.
However, the access road does not pass near any inhabited areas. Another impact of
collection vehciles may be damage to road surfaces, therefore improvement of the pavement
or the sub-base may be needed.
7.2   Proposed Monitoring Arrangements
In order that the enviromnental effects of the Project are adequately controlled by the
proposed mitigation measures, and to give a quantitative assessment of the level of
environmental benefit resulting from Project implementation, it will be necessary for a
formal Monitoring Plan to be prepared.
The objectives of the Monitoring Plan are:-
o    to provide a review of the baseline data;
3    to indicate changing environmental conditions;
*    to identify impacts of the Project as they occur;
D    to identify any unforseen aspects requiring monitoring, mitigative measures or
institutional changes; and
o    to make recommendations for changes to Project operation or existing mitigative
measures.
Given the importance of tourism and associated bathing and water-based recreation in the
area, a formalised rationale for routine water quality monitoring is needed. This should be
based upon the existing bathing water monitoring programme in the area conducted by the
Qe§me and Alaqati sub-Provincial Health Departments and will provide a useful database
for evaluating the levels of water quality improvement associated with the overall Project,
and form the basis of an EU sampling protocol in line with the European Bathing Waters
Directive. This would allow an accurate assessment of possible future compliance should
Turkey join the EU and/or adopt its legislation.
Current monitoring procedures should be reviewed and amended as necessary during the
detailed design stage in consultation with Provincial Directorate of the Ministry of
Enviromnent, the Public Health Department and the Municipalities. These should then be
assimilated into an overall strategic Monitoring Plan for the Project which would be
reviewed annually by all concerned. The Ministries of Agriculture, Forests and Tourism
7-3



should be informed of changes to the procedures and monitoring plan.
The preliminary proposals for environmental monitoring are as follows:-
*    environmental monitoring to commence prior to commissioning of Project to give
baseline data;
*    continuous sampling at Alaqati wastewater treatment works to enable control of the
efficiency of the wastewater treatment process and to ensure effluent complies with
current Turkish standards;
*    at least weekly analysis of raw wastewater quality in each system entering the
treatment plants;
*    routine monthly monitoring of bathing water quality during the tourist season (April
to October) at bathing beaches on both north and south coasts - sampling stations
used in recent GKW and DEU studies and by the sub-Provincial Health
Departments to be used for spatial consistency and continuity of data record;
*    monitoring of marine ecology in the area to be carried out at the end of first year
of operation of the outfall and then at 3 yearly intervals to monitor changes in
diversity and abundance-survey scope to be an abridged version of the DEU baseline
study (this monitoring will provide a key database for ongoing coastal zone
management and conservation initiatives in Turkey and will contribute to furthering
understanding of the marine impact of water quality improvement schemes in the
region);
*    regular water quality monitoring at all potable supply sources and at various points
on the distribution network (with comprehensive analysis at least monthly);
*    a major hydrogeological monitoring survey at Ildir before and after the aquifer
protection works, covering groundwater levels, flow patterns and quality;
*    at the sanitary landfill site, continuous monitoring of meteorological parameters
(precipitation, temperature, wind speed and direction, evaporation and humidity);
*    continuous monitoring of waste inputs to landfill site (weighing and waste analysis);
*    regular monitoring of leachate, landfill gas and surface water flow rates and quality
(for both open and closed parts of the site);
*    regular monitoring of groundwater quality, and for presence of landfill gas, in a
number of boreholes around the perimeter of the landfill site, to give an ongoing
assessment of the integrity of the liner.
7.3   Implementation and Resourcing
The Monitoring Plan should be co-ordinated by the Provincial Environmental Directorate
in Izmir to ensure independence. The  ;e§me and Alacati sub-Provincial Health
Departments, the representatives of the Ministry of Health, should retain their responsibility
for sampling and testing of bathing waters and potable water supplies. Costs will be met
from their budgets. The Municipalities, through their services delivery organisation will
monitor, sample and test water supplies and wastewater regularly, and bathing water when
necessary, to ensure that their options are meeting the desired criteria. All their costs will
be met from their budgets. It is proposed that the Municipality organisation hire a chemist
and prepare a small laboratory for daily sampling and testing purposes.
7-4



8.0 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL REQUIREMENTS
8.1   Existing Institutions and Environmental Responsibilities
Environmental authority and responsibilities are vested with the Ministry of the
Environment (MOE). MOE proposes any new legislation required, sets the environmental
policies, monitors the implementation, and issues the necessary permits/licences for projects
requiring EAs. At the provincial level, there are Local Environmental Councils, consisting
of the provincial directors of such Central Government agencies as the Health and
Agriculture Departments, the State Hydraulic Authority (DSi), the Mayor and university and
industry representatives. The Governor presides and the Provincial Environmental
Directorate coordinates.
Health related issues are handled by the Health Department and commercial and industrial
monitoring is carried out by the municipality. Enforcement authorised is vested with the
Governor (Kaymakam). The Provincial Environment Directorate is authorized to coordinate
between all public institutions with respect to pollution monitoring. In spite of their wide
responsibilities, the municipalities have very limited enforcement authority. In coastal areas,
the Agriculture Ministry has monitoring and enforcement authority in matters relating to
water products (fish etc.), and transport related issues are handled by the newly established
Marine (State) Ministry.
8.2   Recommendations for Institutional Change
Because of the existing overlaps, the authority and responsibilities are usually intermixed;
clarity is required for implementation. Municipal influence is restricted to within municipal
boundaries. Authority outside the municipal boundaries is vague. Where issues are of a
regional character, extending beyond a province, as in the case of a drainage basin of a
river, there is no regionally authorised entity.
For successful Project implementation and sustainability the Municipalities must retain
responsibility for all aspects of monitoring of the services they provide and for policing all
discharges to marine waters and sewerage systems within their Municipal boundaries. The
sub-Provincial Health Departments should retain their responsibilities for ensuring that
bathing water and drinking water standards are maintained by the Municipalities.
Sampling and testing programmes should be co-ordinated to avoid a waste of resources yet
ensure an effective policing. Summaries of results should be submitted regularly to the
Provincial Environmental Directorate to show compliance with regulatory standards.
As part of the Monitoring Protocol for ;e§me and Alacati, the testing laboratories should
be equipped to carry out the necessary chemical and biological tests to ensure compliance
with all regulatory standards.
8-1



83    Training Needs
There is a need to ensure an adequate level of understanding of technical, public health and
environmental issues, as well as administrative procedures, within the concerned
departments in Qe5me and Alacati.
It is recommended that training of all necessary staff be carried out as soon as possible in
the following aspects:-
*    the legal and administration framework and responsibilities concerning water
supplies and wastewater disposal;
*    the technical procedures on the monitoring, sampling, testing and interpretation of
results;
*    the operation and maintenance of water and wastewater facilities to ensure
compliance with Turkish (and EU) Standards and Water Pollution Control
Regulations.
To ensure a smooth acceptance of the increased responsibilities within the Municipalities
with respect to the Monitoring Action Plan, it is recommended that some technical
assistance be provided during the first year of the Project. This training would comprise a
mix of on-the-job and classroom training in Qe§me, together with selected external training
courses for key staff in other well run organisations in Turkey and overseas.
8-2



9.0  INTER-AGENCY CO-ORDINATION AND PUBLIC / NGO PARTICIPATION
Throughout the Study, meetings have been held with the Ministry of Environment and the
Provincial Environmental Directorate in Izmir to seek advice on the preparation of pre-EIA
and EA Reports on specific technical options on water, wastewater and solid waste issues.
All discussions and submissions to the various Environment Ministry Departments have been
co-ordinated through the Ministry of Tourism.
In addition to meeting with the above organisations and the local representatives of the
Ministries of Tourism and Agriculture, meetings were held by the Study Team with several
NGOs, including the Small Business Association, TUJRSAB the Travel Agents' Association,
the Fishermen's Co-operative and Diving Association and managers and owners of some of
the larger hotels. There is no Chamber of Commerce or Hotel Association in Qe§me or
Alacati at present.
They are 39 associations which are active in various fields in Qe§me, but only two of them
are actively working in environmental, nature or animal protection issues. These are the
$esme Beautification and Nature Protection Association and the Nature and Animal-Lovers
Protection Association.
The view of senior representatives of these associations is that the local environment is
being destroyed by the development of tourism and urbanisation. They believe that Qe§rme's
infrastructure is insufficient and that the proposed improvements, such as the collection and
treatment of wastewater, will solve many of these problems.
Informal surveys to canvas the views of residents in §eeme and Alacati on environmental
issues were carried out during the Study.
The Project developments were discussed with local people and the related public entities
in two Citizens' Forums. The first was on July 20, 1996, after the submission of the Interim
Study Report. Present were a large assembly of local participants, including winter and
summer residents, representatives from both Qe§rme and Alacati Municipalities; the
Provincial Environmental Directorate, from Dokuz Eyliil, Ege and Istanbul Technical
Universities and from various potentially interested private sector companies.
The Iller Bank, MOT and Study Team representatives described the Project's technical
institutional and financial aspects related to water, wastewater and solid waste. In addition
to the Municipal comments, views were expressed by the University and Environmental
Directorate participants, members of Ce§me Municipality's Advisory Council, local business
and hotel owners and the local residents. Among the various issues raised, were the degree
of wastewater treatment, the fund raising mechanisms and cost and tariff levels.
The second public consultation meeting was held in Qe5me on September 13, 1996, during
the World Bank pre-appraisal mission. Again attendants similar to those in the First Forum
were present. A general presentation of the technical Project developments was followed
by the financial requirements based on the pre-appraisal.
9-1



On September 12, 1996, a brief presentation was made to the Izmir Provincial Members of
Parliament with (;e§me and Alacati Mayors, the MOT, the Study Team and The World
Bank representatives. The legal issues were explained and political support sought for the
Project implementation.
In addition, a public hearing meeting was held in February 1997 for the proposed sanitary
landfill. The landfill project was presented to the participants and their views were
evaluated.
Further discussions and consultations should be held during the detailed design phase of the
Project.
9-2



10.0 CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
The Southwest Coast Environmental Project will significantly improve the present
arrangements for wastewater, water supply and solid waste management in the
Municipalities of (;e§me and Alacati.
Although wastewater collection and disposal, and water supply infrastructure is gradually
being provided under a number of iller Bank funded schemes, the implementation is slow
and continues to be restricted by funding availability. In the absence of the Southwest Coast
Environmental Project, the current problems of groundwater contamination, septic tank
waste disposal to land, overflows of untreated sewage to sea and environmentally damaging
waste disposal practices will continue and, in many cases, worsen over time.
Following commissioning of the Iller Bank water supply scheme, the situation will improve
but saline intrusion at the Ildir source will continue to contaminate the water supply and the
problems currently associated with solid waste collection and disposal will prevail,
particularly in the peak summer period.
The Project has been designed to utilise, as fully as possible, the existing infrastructure and,
in Phase 1 to concentrate on high priority improvements. Future phases would upgrade the
wastewater treatment level if necessary and address any need for further increasing water
supply capacity.
The primary objective of the Project is to provide environmental improvements to the area
and a number of significant positive effects should result:-
*    reduction in contamination of groundwater (and hence the water supply) by sewage
discharges, infiltration and saline intrusion;
*    improvement in surface water quality at locations currently impacted by raw sewage
discharges;
*    improvement in sea water quality at locations currently impacted by sewage
pollution;
*    reduction of pollution resulting from current landfill arrangements;
*    improvement in public health resulting from reduced contact with raw sewage and
improved potable water quality;
*    elimination of practices which have the potential to damage the tourist growth of the
area.
*    improvements to quality and quantity of the water supply system.
A review has been carried out of all the major infrastructure components anticipated in the
recommended Project.
In assessing the most suitable schemes to recommend, environmental considerations have
been an important factor. The potential adverse impacts have been analysed for a range of
technical options and the most advantageous selected within the affordability of the
Municipalities concerned. The potential impacts on the physical, biological (terrestrial and
aquatic) and socio-cultural environments have been considered.
10-1



All infrastructure projects, however, have the potential for adverse environmental impacts
which must be weighed up against the above benefits. For this Project, most of the
potentially significant adverse effects have been eliminated by extensive site selection studies
which have included comparative environmental appraisals of all options. The key
environmental constraints of the Study Area, such as Natural and Archeological Protection
Zones; high grade agricultural land; planned forested areas and sensitive residential and
tourist developments have all been addressed.
The negative impacts of the Project components will generally be small and, in most cases,
restricted to the construction phase. The proposed mitigation measures should reduce these
to acceptable levels. Collection and treatment of wastewater from the area and discharge
through one of the recently constructed outfalls on the southern coast will inevitably
increase the wastewater loading in the vicinity of the outfall.
However, the current numerous raw sewage discharges to land, surface waters and coastal
waters will gradually be eliminated. Whilst the new discharges to deeper coastal waters may
have a local impact in terms of displaced sensitive species, the overall benefit to the
environment (in terms of positive impacts elsewhere, with species reinhabitation, and species
diversity and abundance improvements) will counter any localised negative impacts.
Modelling has been carried out for both outfalls and demonstrates that the Turkish National
standards should be met. Furthermore, a comprehensive monitoring programme has been
proposed which will provide a temporal record of enviromnental quality which will assist in
defining future treatment standards.
While the proposed aquifer protection works at Ildir should bring significant benefits in
terms of a secure, uncontaminated water supply, the potential hydrogeological, hydrological
and ecological effects of the works should be assessed in detail as part of the programme
in dealing with proceeding with this element of the Project.
Every effort has been made to discuss and obtain the views of the Government and NGOs.
Precedures have been followed to ensure that no unavoidable delays occur in obtaining
approvals from the necessary authorities to enable the Project to proceed.
The overall conclusion of the environmental assessment is that the Southwest Coast
Environmental Project should proceed as a matter of urgency. With the adoption of the
proposed rnitigation and monitoring plans, the Project should not have any significant
adverse impacts.
10-2



11.0 LIST OF REFERENCES AND BIBLIOGRAPHY
1.   -    Contract for Consultancy Services between Ministry of Tourism and Acer
Consultants Ltd dated August 1995.
2.    -    GKW/RR1VSU-YAPI  - Southwest Coast Environmental Project Feasibility
Study ;e§me and Alacati Town Report dated October 1992.
3.    -    GKW/RRI/SU-YAPI - Design Criteria Report dated September 1991.
4.    -    GKW/RRIlSU-YAPI - Background Study Report dated October 1990.
5.    -    IULA-EMME Municipal Diagnosis Study Report dated August 1994.
6.    -    1994 Edition of Cesme County Briefing Report.
7.    -    Iller Bank Drinking Water Infrastructure Design Report 1985.
8.    -    Iler Bank Drinking Water Infrastructure Network Design Report 1995.
9.    -    Iller Bank Drinking Water Construction Report 1995.
10.   -    Iller Bank Wastewater Infrastructure Design Report 1988.
11.   -    Iller Bank Drinking Water Treatment Plant Report 1995.
12.   -    DSI Qeqme-Alaqati Dam Planning Report 1983.
13.   -    Ce§me and Alaqati 1994/95 Annual Reports.
14.   -    Alacati Wastewater Treatment Plant Application Project, Design Report,
Altinok Consulting Engineers Ltd, Istanbul, December 1993.
15.   -    Ge§me Wastewater Treatment Plant Application Project Design Report,
Altinok Consulting Engineers Ltd, Istanbul December 1993.
16.   -    Qe§me and Alacati Outfall Design Report.
17.   -    Synthesis Report of Ge§me Cluster by Dokuz Eyliil University dated October
1994.
18.   -    Ministry of Tourism, Bulletin of Accommodation Statistics, 1994.
19.   -    Mavi Plan of Mediterranean Catchments Published in 1988.
11-1



20.   -    Environmental Program for the Mediterranean published by The World Bank
and European Investment Bank 1990.
21.   -    Turkey and Mediterranean Action Plan, Ministry of Environment, Oct. 1993.
22.   -    EU Council Directive of 8 December 1995 titled 'The Quality of Bathing
Water" (761160/EEC)
23.   -    EU Council Directive of 21 May 1991 titled "Urban Waste Water Treatment"
(91/271/EEC)
24.   -    EU Council Directive of 12 May 1992 titled "Conservation of Natural Habitats
an of Wild Fauna and Flora".
25.   -    Turkish Legislation Pertaining to Coastal Zone Management from the First
International Conference on the Mediterranean Coastal Environment, Med
Coast 91 published by Erdal Ozhan, Atila Uras and Engin Akta, (1993).
26.   -    The World Bank Operational Directive OD 4.01, Oct. 1991. "Environmental
Assessment.
27.   -    The World Bank Environmental Assessment Sourcebook, The World Bank
Environmental Department, (Technical Papers 139 and 140), 1991.
28.   -    Turkish Water Pollution Control Regulation (Official Gazette No. 19919 dated
4.9.1988).
29.   -    Turkish EIA Regulation (Official Gazette No. 21489 dated 7.2.1993).
30.   -    Turkish Communique on Technical Procedures (Official Gazette No. 20478
of 7.1.1991).
31.   -    Sanitary Landfill Design and Siting Criteria, The World Bank Infrastructure
Notes, (Urban No. UE-12) by S. Cointreau-Levine, March 1996.
32.   -    Study on Appropriate Solid Waste Management Practices: Republic of Turkey,
February 1996, by ERMfTugal (evre Teknolojisi for METAP/The World
Bank/Ministry of the Environrment.
33.   -    Minutes of the 11th Citizens' Forum Meeting held on 20 July 1996, published
by ;e§me Municipality.
11-2



APPENDICES
A.   Assessment Preparers
This Environmental Assessment Report has been prepared by members of the
Consultant's Study Team, both Turkish and expatriate. Specialists in environmental
assessment from within the Consultant's firm and support organisations have been
involved throughout the preparation and Study period in both home office and field
investigations.
B.   Records of Inter - Agency and Public / NGO Communications
All formal documentation and submnissions to the Environment Ministry have been
conducted through the Ministry of Tourism in Ankara. Documents and
correspondence are available within their files.
Communications with the public and NGOs have to date been of an informal nature
during the Feasibility Study stage of the Project. As such no formal records of
meetings have been disseminated by the Consultant. However, records of the
Citizens' Forum Meeting held on 20 July 1996 were published by (;e§me Municipality
(refer to Section 11 Reference No. 33).
The minutes of the public hearing meeting for the proposed sanitary landfill were
prepared by the Ministry of Environment.
The results of the informal public survey on environmental issues conducted by the
Consultant have been submitted in the Appendices to the Study Main Report.
C.   Data and Unpublished Reference Documents
All references made have been to published data and reference documents.



