Report No. PIC5013
Project Name      Turkey-Cesme-Alacati Water Supply and Sewerage project (
Region                                   Europe and Central Asia
Sector                                   Water Supply and Sewerage
Project ID                               TRPE8985
Borrower                                 Union of Cesme and Alacati
Municipalities
Implementing Agency                      Ministry of Tourism
Ms. Elmas Arisoy, Project Manager
ATAK Project Management Unit
Ismet Inonu Bulvari, No. 5
Bahcelievler
Ankara, Turkey
Tel:    90-312-212-8394
Fax:    90-312-212-7985
Environment Category                     B
Date This PID Prepared                   March, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date                 May, 1997
Projected Board Date                     November, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.      Turkey has currently a population of about 61 million which
has grown at an average annual rate of about 2.3 percent during the
last decade. About 60 percent of the total population lives in
urban centers. The per capita income was about US$2,700 in 1995.
Although there is little absolute poverty, inequality is high, with
considerable differences in income between regions and between
rural and urban areas. Overall unemployment remains slightly above
10 percent. Educational enrollment at all levels has increased
considerably since the 1970s. Most health indicators including
infant mortality rates have shown substantial improvement over the
same period but regional disparities remain significant.
2.      Tourism is an important element of Turkey's economy.
According to Turkey's 1996-2000 Seventh Five-year Development Plan,
the number of tourists increased from about 4.5 million in 1989 to
about 6.5 million in 1994, generating a net tourism revenue of
about US$3.5 billion, or about 19t of total merchandise exports
(US$18.1 billion). Over the same period the tourism sector
accounted for around 2.0w of total fixed capital investment, and
total bed capacity increased from about 150,000 to about 300,000.
Current plans call for a continuous expansion and the objective
pursued is reach a total bed capacity of about 800,000, attract
about 13 million visitors by the year 2000 and generate a net
tourism revenue of about US$8.5 billion. However, as recognized by
the Seventh Plan, achievement of these ambitious targets is put at
risk by the persistence of severe insufficiencies in tourism
related infrastructure and services. These, together with growing



deterioration of environmental conditions in the main tourism host
areas risk, if not remedied shortly, the loss of Turkey's
competitiveness vis-a-vis other Mediterranean countries.
Project Area
3.      The project area is comprised of the two municipalities of
Cesme and Alicati, located on Turkey's Aegean coast on the Cesme
peninsula about 80 kms West of Izmir, Turkey's third largest city
and capital of the Izmir Province. The Cesme peninsula is one of
the most sought after recreational and vacation regions on the
Aegean coast and a major attraction for domestic and foreign
tourists. Up to the 1960's small fishing and agricultural
communities, the two municipalities have become the main tourism
centers of the area and have currently a total permanent resident
population of about 20,000 (about 13,000 and 7,000, respectively),
to which are added about 80,000 temporary residents and tourists
during the summer period, from May to October. The area has a total
current total bed capacity of about 10,500 beds in about 240 hotels
and pensions and over 10,000 summer houses. The resident population
is projected to increase to about 50,000 by the year 2010 while the
tourism and temporary summer population is expected to reach about
120,000, with a total resulting peak population of about 170,000
during the summer period. In the longer term, growth is expected to
decrease rapidly with the area's capacity peaking at around 220,000
due to environmental protection restrictions on land available for
development. The area is located in a zone of seismic activity and,
although no major earthquake has affected the project area directly
since the beginning of the century, several earthquakes have
occurred in other parts of the Izmir Province.
Objectives
4.      The primary objectives of the project are to:
(a)     to address the needs for water supply, sewerage,
wastewater treatment services in ways that are financially
affordable and represent technically satisfactory least cost
solutions;
(b)     to develop new institutional and financial arrangements
for the management of the above services, including the involvement
of private sector operators in service delivery; and
(c)     to improve the environmental conditions in the project
area and reduce the risk for health hazards that could adversely
affect the local population and tourism industry.
Description
5.      To achieve these objectives, the project would comprise the
following components:
(a)     Improvement of Water Supply - through provision of
operational equipment and development of new water supply sources;
- 2 -



(b)     Rehabilitation of Sewerage System - through
construction of new trunk sewer lines, rehabilitation and repair of
the existing sewerage network, retrofitting of pumping stations,
and installation of preliminary treatment equipment; and
(c)     Institutional Development - through provision of
technical assistance to Cesme-Alacati Union for (i) preparation and
implementation of the contractual arrangements for hiring of a
private operator for the water supply and sewerage services, and
(ii) management and supervision of project execution.
Financing
6.      The cost of the above components and financing arrangements
have not yet been finalized but a total project cost of about US$25
million is currently estimated with about half of the required
financing expected from the Bank.
Implementation
7.      Cesme and Alacati are forming a Union to undertake the
project and to provide water supply and sewerage services. The
Project Management Unit of the Ministry of Tourism will provide
guidance and support to the Union during project preparation and
implementation. Project financed civil works, equipment supply and
other activities will be the responsibility of the Union which will
engage private contractors and suppliers in accordance with World
Bank procurement guidelines. A Project Implementation Unit will be
established to assist the Union, which would engage a private
company to operate the water supply and sewerage systems.
Sustainability
8.      Three features of the project will ensure sustainability.
Cesme and Alacati municipalities would pool their efforts and
resources into a special purpose union established for the
development and management of their combined water supply and
sewerage systems. The operation of the systems would be entrusted
to an experienced private operator under lease and/or management
contract. Financing availability for operations, maintenance, debt
service and further investment will be protected by an automatic
tariff adjustment mechanism. These institutional arrangements will
be substantially in place before consideration of the Bank
financing by the Bank's Board of Directors.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
9.      The 1995 OED Water Sector Report notes that although projects
have generally been successful in achieving their physical
objectives, limited success has in general been obtained in
improving the institutional performance of water and sewerage
utilities. Among the reasons cited were inadequate linkage between
institutional and physical objectives, lack of management and
financial autonomy of utilities, and excessive complexity. More
recently, the experience of the Antalya Project (Loan No. 3893-TU)
- 3 -



has shown the importance of an early start on the arrangements for
engaging a private operator. These lessons have been taken into
account in the design of the project.
Poverty Category
10.     NA
Environmental Aspects
11.     For the purpose of O.D. 4.01 on Environmental Impact
Assessment, the Project has been classified as Category B, which
requires a limited environmental review to determine potential
negative environmental impacts and propose mitigation measures
where needed, as well as to identify opportunities for
environmental enhancement. The environmental assessment was carried
out as part of the feasibility study and has been approved by the
Ministry of Environment (see Annex).
12.     The project would have minor negative environmental effects
and would not raise any resettlement or property rights issues
since it focuses primarily on rehabilitation of existing networks
and facilities. All works would be executed either within the
premises of existing facilities or the rights of way of the public
street network and no acquisition or expropriation of new land
would be required. The project would not affect any known
archeological or historical site. Contractors would be responsible,
under the clauses of the bidding documents, for maintaining work
sites pollution free, returning sites to their original condition,
and minimizing dust, noise and other work-related nuisances. They
would also be responsible for notification of the discovery of, or
any problem related to, a previously unknown historical site. The
proposed project would not deal with international waters and,
therefore, does not require a notification for the purposes of O.D.
7.50.
Program Objective Categories
13.     The project would introduce private sector participation in
the operation of water supply and sewerage services and would
contribute to improving environmental conditions and reducing
health hazards. The gender impact of the project is expected to be
positive because improved
access to and reliability of water supply tends to alleviate
existing burdens on women. Water and sewer tariffs would not exceed
5% of monthly income of the lowest income groups, which is the
Bank's rule of thumb for maximum level of water/sewer charges for
poor households.
Project Benefits
14.     The proposed project would contribute to the improvement of
the quality and reliability of water supply throughout the project
area, particularly during the summer period when demand generated
- 4 -



by tourism, the area's single most important economic activity, is
at its peak. The project would secure the permanence of supply of
water of acceptable quality to the area's tourism facilities
throughout the next decade. The investments of the proposed project
in the rehabilitation of the sewerage network and installation of
preliminary treatment equipment would help prevent the occurrence
of future public health and environmental hazards. Another benefits
would be: i) the change in the water pricing regime which, inter
alia, would allow the establishment of a well-operated and
financially viable water and sewerage system, managed by a private
operator under a lease or management contract arrangement; and (ii)
the potential for replication in other cities.
Project Risks
15.     The project faces three groups of risks:
institutional/political, financial, and technical. The
institutional/political risks relate primarily to the novelty of
the proposed service Union and the possibility of political
interference in its operations and finances. This risk is mitigated
by the existence of precedents for the special purpose Union in
Turkey, the strong support of Central Government authorities for
this institutional approach, design of the Cesme-Alacati Union by-
laws to specifically offset this risk and the creation of
contractual arrangements for regular adjustment of tariffs. The
financial risks arise from the possibility of a shortfall in
counterpart financing and from the possibility of poor performance
by Cesme-Alacati Union due to its lack of experience. These risks
are mitigated by the commitment to the project concept demonstrated
by the Union's member municipalities thus far and their
consciousness that any failure in resolving the water supply and
sewerage problems would have a negative effect on the local
economy. The technical risks are those inherent in the
implementation of a first-time operation by a new beneficiary
lacking familiarity with World Bank procedures. These risks are
mitigated by the provision of technical support to Cesme-Alacati
Union for the duration of the project and the early completion of
design and bidding documents for the first 2 years of project
implementation. The possible effects of the above risks have been
assessed in the sensitivity analyses for the economic evaluation.
Contact Point:           Mr. Bernardo Gomez, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 25, 1997.
- 5 -



ANNEX
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT AND MITIGATION
EXISTING CONDITIONS
1.      The present wastewater system for most of the project area
consists of septic tanks, effectively operating as holding tanks,
which are emptied regularly by tankers. The sewage is discharged at
a number of locations resulting in severe localized impacts. Only
the town of Alacati and a small seasonal summer housing area have
piped collection systems. These systems have physical problems and
discharge untreated wastewater into streams. In addition, there are
discharges to the marine environment which include diffuse inputs
from septic tanks via groundwater and from surface watercourses
from small package treatment plants at summer holiday facilities.
2.      Water  to the area has been supplied mainly from springs, and
from a number of small wells located around the municipalities.
The main water source is becoming affected by saline intrusion
caused by over pumping. Some of the small wells, which are not
generally very deep, suffer contamination from the present method
of sewage disposal in the area and from boat and shipping
discharges. Monitoring data indicate that eutrophication is not a
significant factor in the region.
3.      The vegetation of the Project Area generally comprises plants
such as olive trees, spring shrubs and wild grasses. None of the
areas of land required for the Project are of significant nature
conservation value. The marine ecology is typical of semienclosed
seas at this latitude, with relatively low species diversity and
abundance. Within the coastal zone there are no designated shell
fisheries, although there are some small commercial and
recreational fishery activities. A large part of the project area
has recently been designated as a Natural Protection Zone in an
attempt to control development. In addition, the area around the
main water source has been designated as an Archaeological
Protection Zone.
POTENTIAL IMPACT OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT
4.      The proposed project would significantly improve the quality
of the water supply and sewerage services in the Municipalities of
Cesme and Alacati and would bring a number of positive
environmental impacts to the area such as:
-- improve potable water quality as a result of reduced
saline intrusion and more effective disinfection;
-- improve the management and conservation of groundwater
resources;
-- possible effects on groundwater flows and marine water
quality through a change in salinity;
-- improve the ecology and aesthetics in locations where
wastewater is presently discharged or overflows;
-- improve groundwater quality by reducing wastewater
- 6 -



contamination; and
-- generate jobs for the local people during the construction
period.
5.      The negative impacts of the project would generally be of low
significance, relating mainly to short-term construction period;
they are:
-- temporary localized noise, dust, and disruption to
vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
-- limited but possible adverse impact on archaeology at main
water source;
-- increase in wastewater discharges to the Aegean Sea and
localized adverse impact on marine ecology;
-- adverse visual impact of wastewater treatment works;
-- temporary construction phase ecological disturbance at
Alacati wastewater treatment works site; and
-- possible occasional localized odor emissions from
treatment works and pumping stations.
MITIGATION AND MONITORING ACTION PLAN
6.      The mitigation measures to be adopted include the scheduling
of construction work outside the summer tourist season; using noise
attenuation screens and ear defenders; aesthetic improvements and
landscaping at visible sites; liaising with local residents;
avoiding fuel and chemical spillages; minimizing tree felling and
loss of agricultural land; implementing dust control measures.
7.      The negative impact of the discharges into the sea would be
mitigated through the preliminary treatment and the submarine
outfall. Given the importance of tourism and associated bathing and
water-based recreation in the area, the Project would include
actions to systematically monitor the sea water quality.
- 7 -



