                 Document of
               The World Bank




                                             Report No: 32705

     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
              (SCL-43150 TF-26610)

                     ON A

                LOAN 4315-TU

       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$13.1 MILLION

                    TO THE

    CESME-ALACATI UNION (CALBIR), TURKEY

                   FOR THE

CESME-ALACATI WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE PROJECT




                 June 22, 2005

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                               (Exchange Rate Effective at midyear)

                                    Currency Unit = Turkish Lira (TL)
                                 1996 TL 83,000 = US$ 1.00
                                1997 TL 153,400         US$    1.00
                                1998 TL 268,700         US$    1.00
                                1999 TL 430,300         US$    1.00
                                2000 TL 630,000         US$    1.00
                               2001 TL1,334,000         US$    1.00
                              2002 TL 1,663,000         US$    1.00
                              2003 TL 1,387,000         US$    1.00
                              2004 TL 1,450,000         US$    1.00
                                          US$ 1 = 1.3546 YTL as of June 22, 2005
A currency reform was made in 2005 by replacing the old TL by a new Turkish lira (YTL) by deleting 6
                  zeros from the old TL 1 million that is now equivalent to 1 YTL.
                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                     January 1 - December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

                     ALCESU                  Alaçati Çesme Su (Private operator)
                     CALBIR                  Çesme Alacati (Municipal) Union
                     CAS                     Country Assistance Strategy
                     DSI                     State Hydraulic Agency
                     EU                      European Union
                     IB                      Iller Bank (Bank of the Provinces)
                     ICB                     International Competitive Bidding
                     IRR                     Internal Rate of Return
                     MOT                     Ministry of Tourism
                     NBF                     Not Bank Financed
                     NCB                     National Competitive Bidding
                     NS                      National Shopping
                     SAR                     Staff Appraisal Report

                                  Vice President:      Shigeo Katsu
                                Country Director       Andrew N. Vorkink
                                 Sector Manager        Sumter Lee Travers
                Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Alptekin Orhon

                                           TURKEY
            CESME-ALACATI WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       31
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             32
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             35
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             38
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                39
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            40

Project ID: P008985                                                  Project Name: CESME WS & SEWER
Team Leader: Alptekin Orhon                                          TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 22, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: CESME WS & SEWER                                         L/C/TF Number: SCL-43150; TF-26610
   Country/Department: TURKEY                                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Sewerage (65%); Water supply (35%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services for the poor (P); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (S); Other financial and private sector
                            development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/06/1996                                     Effective: 08/08/1998                09/07/1998
     Appraisal: 12/01/1997                                         MTR: 06/01/2000
      Approval: 04/14/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          CESME - ALACATI UNION (CALBIR)/CESME - ALACATI UNION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Andrew N. Vorkink                              Ajay Chibber
Sector Manager:                 Lee Travers                                    Walter Stottmann
Team Leader at ICR:             Alptekin Orhon                                 Bernardo Gomez
ICR Primary Author:             Klas B. Ringskog


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) states that the objectives of the project were to (i) bring about
institutional development in the Union of municipalities; (ii) increase efficiency of delivering
infrastructure services through the introduction of a private operation; and (iii) improve water
quality, sewerage services, and environmental conditions. Schedule 2 in the Loan Agreement
states the objectives more succinctly as to (a) to develop new institutional arrangements for
management of water supply and sewerage services in the Cesme-Alacati area; (b) to increase
efficiency in the delivery of said services through the operation of said services by a private
operator; and (c) to improve water quality, sewerage service and environmental conditions in said
area. The Loan Agreement wording of the three objectives will be employed for the sake of rating
the project outcome because of its greater precision.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised

3.3 Original Components:
         (a) Institutional Development (21% of base cost) consisting of strengthening the CALBIR
         by:
             (i) setting up the Union's technical and financial management systems, including
             auditing, staff training and office equipment;
             (ii) Hiring and monitoring the performance of a private operator to improve water and
             sewerage services ;
             (iii)providing technical assistance for a high level of project supervision; and
             (iv)providing technical assistance on environmental issues, including protection of sea
             water quality.

         (b) Improving the operational condition of the water supply system (15% of base cost)
         consisting of:
             (i) hydro-geological investigation to increase water production of the wells in the Ildir
             area; district metering to reduce commercial loss; and chlorination for safer water
             quality;
             (ii) relocation of wells in the Ildir area and rehabilitation of the pumping stations to
             improve their operational conditions;
             (iii)construction of a water barrier (about 500 m long) to protect the Ildir aquifer from
             sea water intrusion;
             (iv)provision of operational equipment to improve water and wastewater services; and
             (v) provision for urgent repairs and upgrading of the water supply system to reduce
             losses (Urgent Repairs and Upgrading).

         (c) Completion of Sewerage System (64% of base cost):
             (i) development and improvement of the sewerage network, consisting of the
             upgrading and expansion of the sewerage network through the construction of the
             main sewer pipes from the Cesme areas to Ilica, and the construction of the sewerage
             networks including house-discharges in the areas of Cesme, Alacati, and Ilica;
             (ii) acquisition and installation of mechanical and electrical equipment, and pipes for


                                                   - 2 -

            pumping station (TM2, TM6, TM17, and TM18); and
            (iii)construction of a pre-treatment plant for the combined waste water flow from
            Cesme and Alacati to discharge into the sea through the already constructed sea outfall
            in Alacati.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised with the exception of the component (b) (ii) - the relocation of
the Ildir wells. The State Hydraulic Works (DSI) did not authorize the relocation , pending a
substantial and permanent improvement in the quality of the Ildir groundwater. Contrary to
expectations the grout curtain (that was completed in 2002) has failed to produce a substantial
improvement of the groundwater extracted from the aquifer. Conductivity of the Ildir water
improved only marginally from 3,100 micromhos/cm in 1997 to 2,800 in 2004 and it is advisable
to postpone any further wells until such a time when conductivity has decreased permanently.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Bank's Quality Assessment Group did not rate QAE. The project was part of a large
feasibility study to assess, and plan for infrastructure in support of tourism in a total of 25 town
clusters along Turkey's south-west coast, stretching from Edremit in the north to Alanya in the
east.   Ten of the clusters were rated as high priority out of which the Bank financed
Cesme/Alacati. The feasibility study was financed by a Japanese grant and was carried out by the
British consultant firm ACER and included a full technical, financial and economic analysis where
different project alternatives were considered. The feasibility study was managed by a Project
Management Unit in the Ministry of Tourism that liaised with World Bank preparation missions
during 1995-97. During project preparation the Bank team identified a number of project risks,
such as the risk for undue political interference from the municipalities, and difficulty for the
beneficiaries to pay tariffs sufficient to service the resulting debt. In order to mitigate these risks
the project pioneered the creation of a union between the two small municipalities (CALBIR) and
the delegation of operations to a private operator. Similarly, as a result of Bank preparation the
project size was successively reduced from about US$ 97 million at appraisal to US$ 24 million in
order to make it affordable and economically justified. The remaining project investments
contained a balanced mixture of investment in institutional development, water supply, and
sewerage. Most works were relatively small in comparison to the total project cost and were
flexible so that they could be easily adjusted in response to changes in the financial capacity of
CALBIR. The project also incorporated a number of lessons that had been learnt at the time from
the Antalya Water Supply and Sanitation Project and in particular the experience from employing
a private operator. In view of the careful project preparation, the comprehensive and flexible
design of the project, and the incorporation of lessons learnt under a series of other
Bank-financed water supply and sewerage projects in Turkey the ICR rates the Quality At
Entry as satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Objective (a) to develop new institutional arrangements for management of water supply and
sewerage services in the Cesme-Alacati area;

The project was successful in developing new institutional arrangements. First, a new legal
entity, CALBIR, was established. CALBIR's By-laws makes it responsible for the development,


                                                  - 3 -

management and operation of water supply, wastewater and solid wastes services in the
municipalities of Cesme and Alacati. Prior to the project these services were all managed directly
by each municipality. Second, CALBIR bid and signed a contract with a private consortium of
the French firm Compagnie Générale des Eaux (CGE) in a joint venture with the Turkish firm,
Tekser Insaat, to operate and maintain the water supply and wastewater system during a ten-year
period. The ICR concludes then, on formal grounds, that the first objective has been met. The
stability of the institutional arrangements, both with respect to CALBIR and to the private
operator contract, will be further discussed under the sections of institutional development impact
(IDI) and of the sustainability of the project.

Objective (b) to increase efficiency in the delivery of said services through the operation of said
services by a private operator;

Outcome: The second objective comprises two parts: (i) increasing efficiency of service delivery,
and (ii) doing the same through contracting with a private operator. The first sub-objective of
increasing efficiency is arguably the primary objective while the second part should be understood
as the means rather than an objective in itself. Service efficiency can be tracked by the three
performance indicators: (i) losses (or unaccounted water as a percentage of water production); (ii)
bill collections (as a percentage of water billed); and (iii) operating expenses per unit of water
billed (measured in US$ per m3).               Table 1 below shows the evolution of the efficiency
performance indicators and compares the annual values to the estimated historical and projected
levels in the Staff Appraisal Report:

Table 1 Efficiency Indicators, as projected in the Staff Appraisal Report and Actual Results
 Year            1997           1998       1999          2000        2001        2002        2003          2004
                 Actual
 Efficiency                                    Losses (in percent of production)
 indicator
 SAR             68%            67%        63%           59%         56%         53%         50%           NA
 Actual          68%            NA         75%           74%         70%         67%         65%           57%
                                           Bill collection (in percent of water billed)
 SAR             85%            85%        85%           87%         90%         92%         95%           NA
 Actual          85%            NA         NA            NA          NA          NA          95%           94%
                                 Operating expense per unit water billed (In current US$/m3)
 SAR             0.52           0.52       0.50          0.45        0.42        0.39        0.40          NA
 Actual          0.52           NA         NA            0.75        0.46        0.58        0.98          1.07



Note 1: SAR-value from Annex 2 in the Staff Appraisal Report and referred to in the Supplemental Letter of the
Loan Agreement. The UFW was only estimated at the time of appraisal for lack of accurate metered production
and consumption.
Note 2: Not Available or Not Applicable
Note 3: The levels of unaccounted-for-water have been calculated on data provided by and discussed with the
private operator, ALCESU, and where collections have been adjusted by the projected collections percentage since
the actual billings data are unreliable.
Note 4: The actual operating expenses per unit water billed for the period June, 2003 through December 31, 2004
(corresponding to the period of private operations) are the CALBIR administration costs + contractual operator's
fees as per the negotiated settlement + raw water costs of approximately US$ 0.12/m3 for the water purchased from



                                                        - 4 -

the Izmir Provincial Special Administration in order to operate the Kutlu Aktas water treatment plant but
excluding the compensation fee of US$ 0.27/m3 of water collected up to a cumulative of US$ 1.0 million as a
measure to mitigate the operator's risk during the early years of the contract.

The values of the efficiency performance indicators projected in the SAR and referred to in the
Supplemental letter are targets and do not represent covenanted levels. The project failed to reach
two of the three targets: those for unaccounted for water and for unitary operating expenses. The
share of unaccounted water of 57% is below the level of 68% that was estimated at the time of
appraisal but it is above the level of 50% that was projected. Arguably collections (94%) rose as a
percentage of billings which constitutes an achievement considering the high tariffs (US$1.43 per
m3 of water sold) charged. The reasons and ramifications for the failure to reach the remaining
efficiency targets will be further analyzed under the sections of Institutional Development Impact
and under the Lessons learnt from the project. Nonetheless the project was partially successful
in meeting the second objective of improving the efficiency of water operations.




                                                        - 5 -

Objective (c) to improve water quality, sewerage service and environmental conditions in said
area.

The project's success in meeting the third objective can be assessed by tracking the five
performance indicators identified in Annex 2 in the SAR. Table 2 below shows the forecast levels
and those actually reached:

Table 2 Quality Performance Indicators, as Forecast in Staff Appraisal Report and Actual
Results
 Year           1997          1998         1999         2000          2001        2002           2003     2004
                     Average conductivity of water distributed (in micromhos/cm) (A measure of
                                                           brackishness)
 SAR            TBD           TBD          TBD          TBD           TBD         TBD            TBD      TBD
 Actual         3,080         3,280        3,330        910           930         930            820      730
                     Residual chlorine, mg/l (A proxy of the bacteriological quality of the water)
 SAR            0             0.5          1.0          1.0           1.0         1.0            1.0      1.0
 Actual         0             NA           NA           NA            NA          NA             0.2-1.4  0.4
                     Number of fecal coliforms per 100 ml in distribution system (A proxy of the
                                                      bacteriological quality)
 SAR            Positive      TBD          0            0             0           0              0        0
 Actual         Positive      TBD          0            0             0           0              0        0
                       Number of fecal coliforms per 100 ml of seawater at beaches (A proxy for
                                                    environmental conditions)
 SAR            NA            TBD          < 200        < 200         < 200       < 200          < 200    < 200
 Actual         NA            < 1          < 1          < 1           < 1         < 1            < 1      NA
                                               Number of sewerage connections()
 SAR            860           890          920          2,400         2,470       2,560          4,000    NA
 Actual         860           NA           NA           NA            NA          NA             7,600    11,500


Note 1: TBD = To Be Determined
Note 2: It is assumed that a mix of 80% of water from the Kutlu Aktas dam and 20% from the Ildir well was
produced in each of the critical peak demand periods




                                                      - 6 -

Based on the full compliance with all five performance indicators the ICR concludes that the
project met the third objective since it was fully successful in improving water quality (as
measured by the physio-chemical quality and the bacteriological quality), the sewerage service
(as measured by the number of sewerage connections), and the environmental conditions (as
measured by the bacteriological quality of the sea water at the beaches and at the Alacati
submarine outfall). In addition, the environmental conditions improved since the previous
unauthorized disposal of raw septage from septic tanks has been discontinued. Instead, all
septage is now disposed through the trunk sewer made operational by the project from which it
eventually reaches the Alacati outfall with no adverse impact on the seawater quality. The latter
was monitored annually by the Institute of Marine Sciences and Technology that is part of the
Dokuz Eylül University in Izmir. The monitoring of the bacteriological quality of the seawater
was motivated by the fact that prior to the project there were some discharges of untreated
sewage into the sea without the benefit of the submarine outfall.

In summary, the ICR rates the project outcome as marginally satisfactory since it fully met the
first and third objectives but was only partially successful in meeting the important second
objective.

4.2 Outputs by components:
(a) Institutional Development (21% of base cost) consisting of strengthening the CALBIR by:

Sub-component (1): setting up the Union's technical and financial management systems, including
auditing, staff training and office equipment;
Output (1): The creation of CALBIR as approved by the Ministry of the Interior on September 4,
1997, ratified by the Parliament on September 8, 1997 and gained effectiveness through the
publication in the Official Gazette on September 30, 1997. To date, one administrative staff
position was authorized by the Ministry of the Interior but has not approved three staff positions:
those of general secretary, of accountant, and of a technician. As a result, CALBIR has relied on
two staff detached from the Municipality of Cesme to supplement the lack of a general secretary
and an accountant, and on the contracting of a full-time consultant who has managed
procurement, project supervision, and general liaison with the Bank.

CALBIR's dependence on its municipal officials is illustrated by the fact that the revenue
collected for water and sewerage services were not routinely deposited into CALBIR's accounts.
Instead the mayors of both Cesme and Alacati chose to use a portion of the operational revenue
to pay for other municipal expenses. The situation was rectified with the start-up of the private
operator contract in 2003. CALBIR did set up technical and financial management systems,
however, but the failure to regularly deposit the revenue into CALBIR's accounts shows that the
mere creation of systems is not sufficient ­ they must be strictly followed as well.

CALBIR has contracted with external auditing firms throughout the project. Deloitte&Touche
was the external auditor during 1998-2001, and Price Waterhouse during 2002-2004 .

No staff training whatsoever was provided during the project implementation period because of
the heavy work load on the contracted consultant who was indispensable for managing relations
with the Bank, with contractors and other consultants, and with the private operator. The staff


                                                - 7 -

detached from the Cesme municipality did not receive any training either. The only staff member
fluent in English is the contracted consultant which further restricted the options of staff training.

CALBIR did purchase the most essential office equipment.

Sub-component (2): Hiring and monitoring the performance of a private operator to improve
water and sewerage services;

Output: CALBIR prevailed in the procurement and hiring of a private operator to manage the
water supply and sewerage system. Compagnie Générale des Eaux (CGE) in joint venture with
the Turkish firm, Teksar Insaat took over operations on June 9, 2003. The protracted process of
procuring and concluding the contract will be further analyzed in the section of Institutional
Development Impact.

Sub-component (3) Providing technical assistance for a high level of project supervision;

Output: A relatively sizable technical assistance was provided under the project:

        ü       The Turkish consulting firm Suyapi helped in the preparation of bidding documents
        until December 31, 1998 with financing from a                 Japanese PHRD grant.
        ü       The British consulting firm Babtie was employed until July 2000 and helped with
    the process of pre-qualifying private operators and with                  the early versions of the
    bidding documents for the private operator contract.
        ü       The Turkish consulting firm UBM supervised all project construction during
    2000-2002.
        ü       A consultant team of one civil engineer, one environmental engineer and one
    financial analyst assisted throughout the project with the                        process of
    procuring a private operator and with the financial monitoring of CALBIR.
        ü       Effective from June 2003 the private operator ALCESU is responsible for
    supervising project investments.

Sub-component (4): Providing technical assistance on environmental issues, including the
protection of sea water quality.

Output: CALBIR concluded a contract with the Institute of Marine Sciences and Technology that
is part of the Dokuz Eylül University in Izmir. The consultants have produced satisfactory annual
monitoring reports on the quality of the seawater at the Alacati submarine outfall.

(b) Improving the operational condition of the water supply system (15% of base cost) consisting
of:

Sub-component (5): Hydro-geological investigation to increase water production of the wells in
the Ildir area; district-metering to reduce commercial loss; and chlorination for safer water quality.

Output: First, DSI carried out the hydro-geological studies in the 1997/98 period under a contract



                                                - 8 -

with the Ministry of Tourism with financing from a Japanese PHRD grant. Second, eight district
meters and a number of pressure-reducing valves and other accessories are installed. Third, two
new chlorination units were installed at the Kutlu Aktas water treatment plant and another two at
the Ildir well field pumping station.

Sub-component (6): Relocation of wells in the Ildir area and rehabilitation of the pumping stations
to improve their operational conditions.

Output: First, the State Hydraulic Works (DSI) did not authorize the relocation, pending a
substantial and permanent improvement in the quality of the Ildir groundwater. DSI based its
decision on the fact that the aquifer has been slow to improve as evidenced by the slight decrease
in conductivity ("salinity") from a maximum level of 3,700 micro-mhos/cm in 1999 to 2,800
micro-mhos/cm in 2004. The commissioning of the Kutlu Aktas water treatment plant has enabled
the overall mixture of Ildir groundwater and Kutlu Aktas surface water to produce water of an
acceptable quality but the renovation of the Ildir aquifer that was damaged by seawater intrusion
will take a considerable time. The ICR concurs entirely with DSI's decision and the postponement
of sub-component (6) is fully justified. Second, the rehabilitation of the Ildir pumping station was
completed on December 15, 2004.

Sub-component (7): Construction of a water barrier (about 500 m long) to protect the Ildir
aquifer from sea water intrusion.

Output: A 700 meter long grout curtain was finished in 2002, with grant financing from the
Ministry of Tourism.

Sub-component (8) Provision of operational equipment to improve water and wastewater
services.

Output: A number of items have been procured for the purpose and procurement was concluded
on December 31, 2004.

Sub-component (9): Provision for urgent repairs and upgrading of the water supply system to
reduce losses (Urgent Repairs and Upgrading).

Output: The Urgent Repairs and Upgrading Fund is primarily part of the private operator
contract. US$263,000 is invested for this purpose.

(c) Completion of Sewerage System (64% of base cost)

Sub-component (10) Development and improvement of the sewerage network, consisting of the
upgrading and expansion of the sewerage network through the construction of the main sewer
pipes from the Cesme areas to Ilica, and the construction of the sewerage networks including
house-discharges in the areas of Cesme, Alacati, and Ilica.

Output: The Cesme sewerage works, including the sewage trunk line, were completed in 2002



                                                - 9 -

and 42 km of sewerage network in Alacati and Ilica were also completed, with financing from the
Ministry of Tourism. In 2004, another 20 km of sewerage network in Dalyan and another 30 km
in Boyalik were completed.

Sub-component (11): Acquisition and installation of mechanical and electrical equipment, and
pipes for pumping station (TM2, TM6, TM17, and TM18).

Output: Pumping stations TM6, TM17 and TM18 were completed in 2000, TM2 in 2002, and
TM20 in the year 2004. It is expected that pumping station TM4 will be completed by May 15 ,
2005. A civil works contract in the value YTL 700,000 + VAT, plus cost escalation, has been
implemented by CALBIR in Boyalik with construction started in January 1, 2005. The system has
been commissioned and households have started connecting to the wastewater system.

Sub-component (12): Construction of a pre-treatment plant for the combined waste water flow
from Cesme and Alacati to discharge into the sea through the already constructed sea outfall in
Alacati.

Output: There is no separate pre-treatment plant but simple pre-treatment is provided through
screens with mechanical cleaning at the inlet of all sewage pumping stations.

Cost estimates, with a comparison between estimated and actual costs, and with details on the
procurement arrangements and financing sources are provided in Annex 2.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic rate of return (EROR) was estimated at appraisal at 23%. The EROR has been
recalculated using the same methodology (See Annex 3.) The methodology assumes that the
tariffs that consumers pay are a minimum estimate for the benefits that they assign to the water
consumed. It is also assumed that consumers are willing to pay higher tariffs in recognition of the
fact that the physio-chemical quality of water has improved substantially after the commissioning
of the surface water treatment plant as evidenced by the substantial reduction of brackishness as
measured by the drop in conductivity (See.Table 2). It is further assumed that consumers are
willing to pay higher tariffs in recognition of the savings in emptying of septic tanks made possible
by the expanded number of sewerage connections and in recognition of the safe disposal of
septage made possible through the commissioning of the Alacati submarine outfall. The EROR
has been re-estimated at 18%. The difference is explained by a series of factors such as (i) lower
incremental volume sales because of price elasticity and the associated continued or possibly
expanded reliance on well water; (ii) the higher operating costs in order to improve the reliability
of water service; (iii) the respective operators' failure to reduce the percentage of unaccounted
water as much as projected at the time of appraisal; and (iv) the fact that actual water and
sewerage tariffs trail the projected average levels, in part because the envisaged seasonal pricing
was abandoned due to the perceived difficulties of affordability with respect to the permanent
population.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return has been calculated for the project for two reasons: first, because no
financial rate of return was calculated at appraisal, and second, because the financial rate of return



                                                 - 10 -

is not a meaningful parameter for such water supply and wastewater operations where assets are
notoriously difficult to value and where revaluation does not take place. The last factor is
particularly relevant in the Turkish context where historically high inflation rates have made the
book value of assets very low

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's IDI comprises two parts: (i) the creation of a union, CALBIR, of two small
municipalities Cesme and Alacati in order to achieve economies of scale; and (ii) the procurement
and contracting with a private operator to manage the joint water supply and wastewater system.
The two institutional sub-objectives were met with limitations and on these grounds the ICR rates
the institutional development impact as modest. It is instructive to analyze in greater detail the
long process that culminated in a private sector contract because of the lessons that can be learnt
for other municipalities in Turkey and elsewhere.

Prior to the Bank-financed project, the water supply service was inadequate in Cesme and Alacati.
Water quality was both unsafe and inadequate (as evidenced by the performance indicators in
Tables 1 and 2) and the prospects of having to operate and maintain an expanded and much more
complex system justified the search for a better way of management. During project preparation in
1996 and 1997, the Antalya water supply and sewerage project (Bank loan 3893-TU) had
successfully employed a private operator that had improved operations and the commercial
situation in the water supply and sewerage services. The temptation was great to encourage
CALBIR to replicate the initially positive experience of Antalya. Accordingly, an analogous
process was planned for the Cesme project as had proven successful for Antalya. However, the
implementation proved much more protracted and difficult in the smaller municipalities as Table 3
indicates:




                                               - 11 -

Table 3 ­ Forecast and Actual Schedule to Employ a Private Operator in Cesme/Alacati

 Stage of hiring of private operator                 Projected in Staff              Actual date
                                                     Appraisal Report
 Loan approved by Bank Board                         April 1998                      April 1998
 Invitation to firms to pre-qualify                  July 1998                       September 1998
 Pre-qualification criteria relaxed to encourage                                     December 1998
 wider competition
 Pre-qualification expressions of interest                                           January 1999
 received
 Four firms prequalified with Bank's no-                                             December 1999
 objection
 Bidding documents finalized                                                         July 2000
 Invitations to submit bids                          October 1998                    July 2000
 Two firms submitted technical & financial bids                                      November 2000
 CALBIR's technical evaluation sent to Bank
 for no-objection                                                                    November 2000
 Bank gives no-objection to CALBIR opening
 financial bid of best technical bid                                                 February 2001
 Bank authorizes negotiations on price with                                          June 2001
 favored technical bidder
 A series of six price negotiations with favored                                     June 2001-
 technical bidder                                                                    October 2002
 A series of communications between CALBIR                                           2001-2002
 and Bank on contract
 Final bid evaluation sent to Bank for no-                                           June 2002
 objection simultaneously with request for one
 year extension of closing date and higher
 disbursement percentage
 The Bank's no-objection to contract                                                 December 2002
 Final award to private firm                         February 1999                   December 2002
 Signing the contract with the firm                  March 1999                      February 2003
 Private operator assumes operations                 April 1999                      June 2003
 Total time lapsed from invitation to pre-qualify    9 months                        57 months
 to assumed operations




The table shows the discrepancy between the appraisal estimates and the actual time to contract
with a private operator. The actual lapsed time of 57 months is equal to the time from
effectiveness of the loan to the original closing. The substantial delay in contracting with a private
operator had consequences for the project investments of which many were linked to a private
operator such as the implementation of urgent repairs that were aimed to allow the operator
flexible access to funding. The inordinate time used up for procuring and signing a contract with



                                                - 12 -

the private operator meant that less physical works could be undertaken, that less progress was
possible to reduce losses and so on.

Reasons for the Delays in Employing a Private Operator.

It is instructive to analyze why the procurement, negotiations and contracting with the private
operator proved so time consuming. There seem to be three key reasons. First, the project had
been prepared and negotiated with one mayor in Cesme who subsequently lost out in municipal
elections in March 1999. The new mayor wished to study and understand the implications of
employing a private operator. Initially, the new mayor was not supportive of a private operator
and only once he had become convinced that there was no alternative to an outside operator did
he accept the idea. This process took time.

Second, the preparations and procurement process was complicated in comparison with the
experience of the municipal administrations who were the client. It is hardly to be expected that a
municipality with 20,000 inhabitants (rising above 100,000 in the summer) could possess the
trained staff to contract with an experienced private operator. This asymmetry in experience
between the private operator and the client did create difficulties in spite of the consultants that
the loan financed and in spite of the Bank's assistance.

Third, and possibly most damaging to the process, the initial bids of the two private bids proved
to be expensive. The bids came in at roughly double the price level that had been projected in the
staff appraisal report and there was little difference between the two competing bids from the
French firms Compagnie Générale des Eaux (CGE) in a joint venture with the Turkish firm,
Tekser Insaat, and the German firm Gelsenwasser in a joint venture with Barmek Insaat. CGE
presented the lowest evaluated bid but the difference with the Gelsenwasser bid was very slight.
From the vantage point of the client (CALBIR) the operator financial bid appeared expensive as
compared to historical levels, as compared to the forecasts, and as compared to the already high
water tariffs. It would appear that the risks were perceived by the bidders to be much higher than
had been estimated at the time of appraisal, possibly because of the worse macro-economic
situation of Turkey and because of the loss of political support in favor of private sector
operations following the 1999 mayoral elections in Cesme.

 More than one year of a series of price negotiations followed with the low bidder and the result
were reduced operator fees, particularly during the early years. However, the question remains
why the bid prices were considerably higher than expectations. One possible explanation is that
the size of the two municipalities, both population-wise and volume-wise, proved too small to
enable an international operator to earn the compensation expected. Another explanation might be
that the risks were perceived to be so high that the operator demanded high compensation during
the early years of the contract when the risks are known to be the greatest.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Two events in this category affected the project, both negatively. The first was the 2000 and 2001
macro-economic crises in Turkey which raised risks for the private operator and which may a



                                                     - 13 -

consequence have prompted higher bid prices. The second was the 2002 bankruptcy of the
ANTSU, the private operator in the city of Antalya, which had served as a model for the Cesme
private sector contract. ANTSU' bankruptcy undoubtedly increased the risk perception of the
private operator in Cesme and might have increased the resistance to reduce the bid prices.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The central government through the Ministry of the Interior could have created the three
requested positions to provide CALBIR with permanent staff. This was not done and CALBIR
instead had to make do with one permanent consultant and two staff detached from the Cesme
municipality. This in turn made it difficult to train staff properly and no doubt made CALBIR less
independent from municipal influence and from staff movements. The possible departure of the
private consultant from the task of managing the project and supervising the private operator will
arguably affect the project negatively.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
CALBIR as the implementing agency has little independence with respect to its municipal officials
on its board, and particularly to the Cesme municipality that is larger than the Alacati
municipality. It is therefore not to be expected that CALBIR will be able to influence the project
by itself. By extension one would have to analyze how the Cesme and Alacati municipal
administrations affected project implementation. By that token the municipal elections in 1999
were crucial since it replaced the mayor in Cesme who had supported the project and the concept
of a private operator with a candidate from another party who had been opposed to hiring a
private operator. The incoming mayor who took office in 1999 requested the seasonal tariff to be
abolished even before it was implemented as planned (and covenanted) in 2000. The modified
tariff regime of block tariffs was made with the Bank's full agreement who agreed not to apply
Section 4.02 (d) of the Loan Agreement that referred to the seasonal tariff. It should be noted,
however, that the Cesme and Alacati municipalities through their decisive role on the CALBIR
Board did agree to link tariffs with the changes in the consumer price index.. CALBIR in their
comments on the draft ICR (See Section 9) notes that " ... three loan payments have been
successfully realized until today as projected and the World Bank has been informed that there
would not be any problems with the following repayments. CALBIR will continue to support the
tariffs with the same decisiveness in the future periods as well."

The Cesme and Alacati municipalities did act on another occasion to substantially improve the
project and the chances for a sustainable private operator contract. The Bank project has relied
exclusively on the expected success of improving the quality of ground water drawn from the Ildir
aquifer. The improvement was risky since it depended on the effectiveness of the grout curtain to
impede sea water intrusion and on the rainfall to renew the aquifer. Without waiting for the
expected improvement the two mayors moved decisively to reach a contract with the Governor of
Izmir to finish the construction of the treatment plant that could subsequently draw water from
the existing Kutlu Aktas dam. The agreement that became effective in the year 2000 sharply
improved the quality of water supplied by making it possible to mix the brackish Ildir well water
with the Kutlu Aktas surface water the conductivity of which was much lower. In addition, the
supply deficit was removed and enabled continuous service. CALBIR is now in negotiations with
the Special Administration of Izmir to acquire the Kutlu Aktas system in order to have greater
assurance of drawing on this excellent source of water. The negotiations held with the Special



                                                    - 14 -

Provincial Administration regarding the granting of the rights of the Cesme-Alacati dam to Cesme
Municipality for a period of 49 years have been finalized and the right of use of the dam was
purchased at a price of YTL 225,000 (YTL=New Turkish lira worth one million times the old
TL) with the protocol signed in January 2005.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project costs and their financing are detailed in Annex 2. Total project costs turned out to be
US$ 16.2 million or roughly two thirds the forecast US$ 24.0 million. The delays in hiring a
private operator delayed much of the heavy sewerage investment program since the Bank
conditioned these investments on signing of the contract with a private operator. In terms of the
three components the actual project costs resulted in 45% of appraisal estimates for the
institutional strengthening; 146% for the water supply component, and 87% of the sewerage
component. The overrun for the water supply component is mainly explained by the higher cost of
the Ildir grout curtain. This component was financed by the Ministry of Tourism on a grant basis
and did not affect the CALBIR financial viability. Because of the delay in the implementation of
the major investment components total Bank disbursements are now likely to reach US$ 8.34
million compared to the SAR estimate of US$ 13.1 million. CALBIR requested the first
cancellation of US$ 2.70 million that was cancelled on October 28, 2003 and another cancellation
of US$ 1.75 million in September 2004 that became effective in October 2004. The motive for the
cancellations is a strong desire on CALBIR's part to reduce the Bank commitment charges and
the debt service.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Out of the many risk factors influencing the robustness of the benefit stream ­ and therefore the
project sustainability ­ four deserve to be singled out: the technical, the institutional, the financial,
and the political sustainability. The technical sustainability is about the likelihood there will be
sufficient water of good quality to meet demand. This sustainability seems assured given that the
Kutlu Akta· dam is producing up to 80% of the water and is likely to be purchased by CALBIR.
The fact that the right of use of the Cesme-Alacati Dam was obtained for a period of 49 years is
further proof that the technical sustainability has been guaranteed. In addition, it is likely that the
Ildir well water will continue to improve as evidenced by the dropping conductivity. The
institutional feasibility deals with the likelihood there will be a competent agency to operate and
maintain the facilities. This feasibility also seems assured as long as the private operator contract
is valid. The financial feasibility is also likely. The financial sustainability appears likely because
of the demonstrated capacity of the Cesme and Alacati municipal councils to approve tariffs that
are sufficiently high to generate a surplus that can pay for operations and maintenance expenditure
and debt service under the Bank loan. The high tariffs have been necessary to pay the
higher-than-expected operator fees that are consuming a high share of the operating revenue. The
actual operator fees turned out to be considerably higher than the estimates in the Staff Appraisal
Report, possibly because of the bidders' perception of high risk in the wake of the 2001
macro-economic crisis in Turkey and following the 2002 contractual dispute between the
French-owned operator ANTSU and the municipal water supply and sewerage company, ASAT,
in Antalya. Calbir's total revenue collections (US$ 3.8 million, including the interest earned in the
amount of US$0.2) in 2004, enabled it to cover its operating costs (US$ 2.3 million), including



                                                  - 15 -

the operator fees, debt service (US$ 1.0 million), and the investment expenditures. Including the
2003 year-end net cash balance (US$ 0.7 million), 2004 year-end net cash amounted to US$
US$1.2 million. After the adjustments regarding the value added tax, the net cash for 2004 is
US$ 1.0 million.

Cesme/Alacati mayors have actively supported timely payment of the Bank debt service. The
willingness of the CALBIR board to continue authorizing the high tariffs should also provide
sufficient revenue for paying for operations and maintenance. Finally, the political sustainability
is also likely although it cannot be taken for granted. It centers on the willingness of the Cesme
and Alacati municipalities to continue honoring the contract with the private operator, ALCESU.
The fact that CALBIR did wait patiently for the five years it took to get a private operator on
board is evidence that the two municipalities consider that ALCESU is better than the alternative
­ operations with municipal staff through CALBIR. Given that the four sub-feasibilities are likely
the ICR rates the overall sustainability of the project as likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There are no special arrangements necessary to regular operations. The project facilities are
operated and maintained since June 2003 by a private operator, ALCESU.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The ICR rates the Bank performance during lending as satisfactory. The Bank facilitated a
Japanese PHRD grant for the feasibility study and was conscious of the need to simplify many of
the aspects of the project. The earlier contemplated solid waste management component was
deleted and the project size was reduced by three quarters to make it more compatible with the
financial capacity of the Cesme and Alacati municipalities. All in all, the Bank used US$ 500,000
of its own budget for preparation and appraisal.

7.2 Supervision:
The ICR rates the Bank performance during supervision as satisfactory. This rating coincides with
that of QAG who assessed the quality of supervision in FY00 as "satisfactory". The Bank did
provide large resources out of its own budget (US$ 500,000) to supervise the project intensively
and assist CALBIR in finally signing the private operator contract.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the ICR rates the Bank performance as satisfactory particularly considering that the
operation was pioneering private sector operations in small municipalities with an eye of
establishing reference procedures for PSP in other municipalities in Turkey. The total resources of
Bank budget expended on the project of US$ 1.0 million are large in comparison to the expected
total disbursements of US$ 8.34 million but could be justified on grounds of learning in order to
find a PSP paradigm for other projects.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The ICR rates the borrower performance during preparation as highly satisfactory. The mayors of
Cesme and Alacati were highly supportive of the project and agreed with such innovations as the


                                                  - 16 -

creation of a union of municipalities, CALBIR, to reach economies of scale; the contracting with
a private operator to supplant the inadequate capacity of their municipalities to operate and
maintain; and of a seasonal tariff that would have shifted partially the tariff burden from the
lower-income all-year round population to the wealthier peak period population.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The central government through the Ministry of Tourism gave strong support to the project
through the financing of US$ 6.0 million on a grant basis to fund the improvements of the Ildir
well system and to lay the sewerage system in the Ilica area. The Izmir regional Government was
supportive of the project objectives when it agreed to an arrangement to allow the Kutlu Aktas
dam and treatment plant to be used to improve and increase the supply of water to Cesme and
Alacati. Finally, the Cesme and Alacati local governments did lend their support to the project
once they had familiarized themselves with the project (following the change of municipal
administration in 1999). For these reasons, the ICR rates the government performance as
satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The ICR rates the performance of CALBIR as satisfactory with the proviso that its performance is
really synonymous with that of the Cesme and Alacati municipalities, given the lack of
independence of CALBIR with respect to its municipal masters.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Given the above sub-ratings the ICR rates the Borrower performance as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The Cesme-Alacati operation offers a number of important lessons with respect to (i)                 the
difficulties of creating client and institutional capacity as a counterpart to experienced
international water supply operators; (ii) the Bank's need to act and be perceived as an honest
broker to facilitate private operating contracts (iii) on the advisability of creating local or national
operator capacity; (iv) special consideration should be given to the infrastructure development of
touristic towns where the year around population is 20,000 but with an infrastructure design to
accommodate a peak population of about 100,000

Lesson One: There is an asymmetry in experience and sophistication between small municipalities
with a combined population of 20,000 (albeit with a summer population rising above 100,000)
and one of the largest private water supply operators in the world. The Bank was acutely aware of
the asymmetry and provided much consultancy and supervision to help redress the asymmetry.
However, in the end the effort did not prove fully sufficient as evidenced by the long delay in
resolving day to day issues that required on agreement between CALBIR and the operator.

Lesson Two: Given the borrower's unfamiliarity and lack of conviction with private sector
management, the Bank must do its utmost to present a picture of balanced support in order to
respond to the borrower's trepidation with signing over its essential water supply and sewerage
services to a private operator, particularly when the costs proved to be considerably higher than
expected. It would probably have been worthwhile to delink the implementation of the project's
physical components to the presence of a private operator.


                                                 - 17 -

Lesson Three: In order to mitigate the effects of high risk premiums that foreign private
operators are likely to charge it is desirable to rapidly build up national capacity to operate and
maintain water supply and sewerage systems. This might in theory be achieved through
recommended (but not mandatory) joint ventures between the foreign partner and a local partner
of the type that was attempted in Antalya and Cesme. The actual experience is that there is no or
negligible transfer of knowledge from the foreign partner to the local partner. Instead it is
recommended that a much greater direct effort be made, possibly with Bank financing, to directly
create national or local operator capacity. Such effort must be combined with relaxed
pre-qualification criteria.

Lesson Four: The project is a lesson in the difficulties to design water supply and wastewater
system in municipalities that have a resident population of about 20,000 in the winter, off-peak
season but then have to accommodate a summer peak-season population in excess of 100,000.
The Bank attempted to improve efficiency and equity by introducing a seasonal water tariff that
would charge substantially higher tariffs during the peak bimester season. Conversely, water
consumption during the five off-peak bimesters would be at lower tariffs. The intent was to
require the more affluent peak bimester consumers to pay for a larger share of the capacity costs
of the system since their consumption determined the necessary capacity. However, in the end the
incoming mayor who had not been a party to the initial agreement to introduce a seasonal water
tariff requested that the concept be abolished altogether in favor of an increasing block tariff. All
in all, it must be said that the risks for private sector operations in small Turkish municipalities
were underestimated at the time of appraisal.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                                            ÇESME ­ ALAÇATI
                                Environmental Protection Infrastructure Facilities
                                      Construction and Operation Union

       Ilica Mah. 718 Sok. No : 5 Çesme Izmir TÜRKIYE Tel : 0090 232 723 17 33 Fax: 0090 232 723 17 23


ÇAL ­ BIR
   1997
Reference : ÇALBIR /2005/140
Subject : Our Opinions about the Report
Related to the Loan 4315-TU                                                    MAY 31, 2005

                              THE WORLD BANK COUNTRY OFFICE
                                                                     ANKARA

         Re : Implementation Completion Report on the Loan 4315-TU, dated 15.04.2005

         The above referenced Report has been examined and our opinions with this regard have
been given below in the form of articles. According to this;
                 1) What was intended with the rating of the Sustainability as Likely on page 5, 2.



                                                    - 18 -

Principal Performance Ratings could not have been understood. ÇALBIR has
successfully realized the 1st, 2nd and 3rd payments of the USD 8,338,000 loan it has
obtained from the World Bank until today and it will also make the 4th payment by June
15, 2005.
        ÇALBIR has used the water and waste water tariffs, which were also presented to
you previously, while realizing these payments and it will continue to use them later on as
well.
        Since 31.12.2004, which is the World Bank loan closing date, ÇALBIR has
successfully completed with its own capital resources, the Boyal·k Sewerage Network,
TM4 Pumping Station and Trunk Line with a 20 % cost increase. In addition, there are
also water and sewerage investments, which are planned to be constructed, other than
Boyal·k in 2005 ÇALBIR Investment Program. It is not appropriate to rate the
sustainability of ÇALBIR, with such an intense investment program, which has fulfilled all
kinds of duties it has undertaken with the World Bank until today (in spite of the existence
of the Treasury guarantee) as likely.
        2) The actual figure for losses (in percent of production) in the Efficiency
Indicator section of Table 1 has been given as 57 % in 2004. However, as it is known, the
59 % unaccounted-for water ratio stipulated in the Private Operator Contract could not
have been realized, unfortunately. The major reason for this is that the Private Operator
Alçesu did not realize the daily operation, repair ­ maintenance and replacement processes
at the values given in article 3.8.2 of the Private Operator Contract in 2004. Since
decreasing the unaccounted-for water ratio to 56 % in 2005 in general constitutes an
important criterion in the evaluation of the performance of Alçesu in the Private Operator
Contract, the repair and maintenance processes on the supply pipes have been started
since January 2005, with the pressures exerted by ÇALBIR.
        3) The sentence: "Even though the performance realized by the private Operator
Alçesu in 2003 and 2004 is seen as successful at the first glance compared to the periods
when accrual and collection processes were under the control of the Municipalities, it is an
undisputable fact that they remained below the performance expected from them (due to
the form of their company management as you know) and they could not realize a
collection that would meet the USD 1,000,000 to be paid to them until the Closing Date
of the World Bank Loan." should be added at the end of the 3rd paragraph at page 10.
        4) The sentence: "The Private Operator Alçesu realized the duty of supervising
project investments at the lowest level starting with June 2003 until December 2004.
ÇALBIR was forced to intervene with the work most of the time, especially during the
bids and constructions realized in 2003 and 2004 and was left with no choice but to force
Alçesu to accept the controlling duty, which Alçesu did not want to undertake at the
beginning of the work." should be added at the end of article 5, Sub-Component (3) at
page 11.
        5) The sentence: " A construction at the value of YTL 700,000 + VAT, together
with the additional cost increases, has been realized by ÇALBIR in Boyal·k starting with
January 1, 2005 and the system has been put in operation. Waste water subscriptions have
started to be accepted in the region since May 16, 2005." should be added at the end of
the 1st paragraph at page 13.
        6) The sentence: "With the revenues obtained from the tariff, which was asked to



                                        - 19 -

be abolished by the new Mayor since it was high and unaffordable and which was
re-determined by ÇALBIR Board and correlated to the Consumer Price Index, 3 loan
repayments have been successfully realized until today as projected and the World Bank
has been informed that there would not be any problems with the following repayments
(by sending ÇALBIR Bank Account Statements to World Bank authorities at various
times). ÇALBIR will continue to support the tariffs with the same decisiveness in the
future periods as well." should be added in the 3rd paragraph at page 17.
       7) The sentence: "The negotiations held with the Special Provincial Administration
regarding the grant of the rights of use of Çesme ­ Alaçati Dam to Çesme Municipality for
49 years have been finalized and the right of use of the dam was purchased at a Price of
YTL 225,000 with the protocol signed in January 2005." should be added at the end of
the 4th paragraph at page 17.
       8) The sentence: " The fact that the right of use of Çesme ­ Alaçati Dam was
obtained for a period of 49 years shows that the technical sustainability has been
guaranteed." should be added in article 6.1 Sustainability at page 18.

For your information and the necessary action to be taken, please.


                                                            Muhittin DALGIÇ
                                                            President of ÇALBIR




                                         - 20 -

- 21 -

- 22 -

- 23 -

- 24 -

- 25 -

- 26 -

- 27 -

- 28 -

- 29 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable



                     - 30 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information

None




                                             - 31 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1 Legal creation of the CALBIR.               Legally completed on Sept 30, 1997        Completed
1.2 The CALBIR staffed and operational.         Operational but staffed with borrowed and Operational but staffed with borrowed and
                                                contracted staff                          contracted staff
1.3 Hiring a private operator for the provision Private operated took over operations     Private operated took over operations
of water supply and sewerage services.          effective June 9, 2003                    effective June 9, 2003
2.1 Private operator meeting contract           No particular mention of performance      Operator is not meeting certain performance
performance standards.                                                                    standards such as UFW
2.2 Performance indicators in the Project       No tracking of performance indicators
Implementation Plan.
                                                                                          See evolution of performance indicators in
                                                                                          main ICR text in Tables 1 and 2


Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
Development and improvement of the              No special mention                        The electromechanical equipment in the
sewerage network                                                                          Boyalik pumping station will be completed by
                                                                                          March 31, 2005 rather than at closing
Acquisition and installation of of equipment    No special mention                        Fully completed
for four selected sewerage pumping stations
Construction of a sewerage pre-traetment        No special mention                        There is no pre-treatment plant but only
plant to discharge into the sea through the                                               mechanical separation at the inlet of each
existing sea outfall.                                                                     pumping station with mechanically cleaned
                                                                                          screens
Urgent repairs to and upgrading the             No special mention                        There has been minimal use of the Urgent
sewerage system                                                                           repairs fund for the sewerage upgrading
Carrying out of hydrogeological investigations No special mention                         Completed in 1998 with financing from the
of the wells in Ildir, and improvements in                                                Japanese PHRD grant
district metering and chlorination
Relocation of Ildir wells and rehabilitation of See right hand entry                      The relocation of the Ildir wells was not
the water pumping stations to improve their                                               authorized by DSI pending a permanent
conditions.                                                                               improvement of the Ildir aquifer groundwater
                                                                                          quality. The rehabilitation of the Ildir pumping
                                                                                          station plus the installation of a backup diesel
                                                                                          generator will be completed by December 31,
                                                                                          2004
Construction of a water barrier to protect the  No special mention                        Completed in 2002 but reduction of
aquifer in the Ildir area from sea water                                                  brackishness of Ildir water has been slower
intrusion.                                                                                than expected
Supply and installation of equipment for water No special mention                         Completed by loan closing
production, district metering, and
chlorination, urgent repairs, and minor
service extensions, and upgrading of the
water supply system.

1End of project




                                                                  - 32 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
                         Component                         US$ million   US$ million
Institutional strengthening:
Sub-component (1) Auditing, training and office equipment
Sub-component (2) Compensation fee for private operator
Sub-component (3) Design and supervision consultant fees
Sub-component (4) Environmental technical assistance
Sub-total Institutional strengthening                         3.50            1.56             45

Improving the Operational Condition of the Water Supply
Sub-component (5) Hydro-geological study
­MOT-financed
Sub-component (6) Relocation of Ildir wells
­MOT-financed
Sub-component (7) Construction of Ildir grout
curtain-MOT
Sub-component (8) Operational
equipment,meters,chlorinator
Sub-component (9) Urgent repairs and upgrading
Sub-total Water Supply                                        2.60            3.81            145
Completion of Sewerage System
Sub-component (10) Sewerage network
Sub-component (11) Sewage pumping stations
Sub-component (12) Pre-treatment plant                       10.90            9.46             87
Sub-total Sewerage System

Total Baseline Cost                                          17.00          14.83
 Physical Contingencies                                       1.70            1.35              0
 Price Contingencies                                          5.30
                           Total Project Costs               24.00          16.18
                    Total Financing Required                 24.00          16.18
Price contingencies include taxes of US$3.1 million.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB           NCB                2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                             7.96           4.39          0.66         5.10        18.11
                                     (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00           0.00          1.15         0.00         1.15
                                     (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00          4.27         0.47         4.74
                                     (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)



                                                 - 33 -

    4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
    goods and minor works                  (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
    bid a package
    5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
    6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
        Total                               7.96               4.39               6.08             5.57              24.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)


    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
    1. Works                                4.31               3.41              0.00             6.01             13.73
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    2. Goods                                0.00               0.00              0.67             0.00              0.67
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    3. Services                             1.78               0.00              0.00             0.00              1.78
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
    goods and minor works                  (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    bid a package
    5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                               6.09               3.41              0.67             6.01             16.18
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



 Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
 Total Financing               13.10         5.50         5.40        8.34         6.00       1.86       63.7     109.1     34.4
 Financing Shares              55.00        22.00        23.00       52.00         37.00     11.00       94.5     168.2     47.8


- Appraisal estimate for government financing includes Ilica Sewerage network of US$ 2.8 million (MOT financing)
- Actual figure for government financing includes Ilica Sewerage network of US$ 1.9 million (MOT financing)




                                                           - 34 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic Rate-of-Return of Cesme-Alacati Water Supply and Sanitation Project    1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      2002      2003      2004     2005 2006-2030

BENEFITS

With Project
Amount of water collected, million m3                                              1         1      0.99      1.26      1.33       1.5      1.69      2.06     2.29      2.56
Average tariff per m3 collected, US$                                            0.72      0.81      0.91      1.18         1      0.94      1.32      1.55     1.55      1.55
Total collections, US$ million                                                  0.72      0.81    0.9009    1.4868      1.33      1.41    2.2308     3.193   3.5495     3.968

Without Project
Amount of water collected, million m3                                              1         1         1         1         1         1         1         1        1         1
Average tariff per m3 collected, US$                                            0.72    0.6984 0.677448 0.657125 0.637411 0.618288       0.59974 0.581748 0.564295 0.547366
Total collections, US$ million                                                  0.72    0.6984 0.677448 0.657125 0.637411 0.618288       0.59974 0.581748 0.564295 0.547366

Incremental collections, US$ million                                               0    0.1116 0.223452 0.829675 0.692589 0.791712       1.63106 2.611252 2.985205 3.420634
Value Added Tax (VAT) paid by consumers on collections @ 15%                       0   0.01674 0.033518 0.124451 0.103888 0.118757 0.244659 0.391688 0.447781 0.513095
Total incremental benefits of project                                              0   0.12834  0.25697 0.954127 0.796478 0.910468 1.875719        3.00294 3.432985 3.933729

COSTS

With Project

Operating Costs, US$ million                                                    0.66      0.68      0.67      1.02      0.69      0.91      0.96      2.06      2.1       2.1
Investment Costs, US$ million                                                      0       1.1       2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5        0         0
Total Costs, US$ million                                                        0.66      1.78      3.17      3.52      3.19      3.41      3.46      4.56      2.1       2.1

Without Project

Operating Costs, US$ million                                                    0.66     0.693  0.72765 0.764033 0.802234 0.842346 0.884463 0.928686 0.975121 1.023877
Investment Costs, US$ million (sunk costs)                                         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0
Total Costs, US$ million                                                        0.66     0.693  0.72765 0.764033 0.802234 0.842346 0.884463 0.928686 0.975121 1.023877

Incremental Costs, US$ million                                                     0     1.087  2.44235 2.755968 2.387766 2.567654 2.575537 3.631314 1.124879 1.076123
Incremental Costs without VAT, US$ million                                         0   0.92395 2.075998 2.342572 2.029601 2.182506 2.189206 3.086617 0.956147 0.914705



Net Incremental Benefits, US$ million in current prices                            0  -0.79561 -1.819028 -1.388446 -1.233123 -1.272038 -0.313487 -0.083676 2.476838 3.019024
Consumer Price Index for US$                                                    93.2      94.7      96.7       100     102.8     104.5     106.8       110      114       118
Net Incremental Benefits, US$ million in constant prices                           0 -0.840137 -1.881104 -1.388446 -1.199536 -1.217261 -0.293527  -0.07607 2.172665 2.558495

Economic Rate of Return =18%




                                                                                   - 35 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09-10/1995                3    1 FINANCIAL ANALYST, 1
                                             ENGINEER, 1 URBAN
                                             PLANNER
              06/1997                   4    2 FNA, 2 EGR

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/1997                   5    2 FNA, I ECON, 2 EGR
                 03/1998                3    I FNA, I ECON, I LAWYER

 Supervision

              06/13/1998                2    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);            S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              12/14/1998                3    MISSION LEADER (1);               S               S
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              07/12/1999                2    ENGINEER (1); FINANCIAL           U               U
                                             ANALYST (1)
              03/24/2000                3    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);            U               U
                                             ENGINEER (1); PRIN.
                                             EVALUATION OFF. (1)
              05/11/2001                2    SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST             S               S
                                             (1); ENGINEER, PAS (1)
              06/03/2002                3    SR.FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);         U               S
                                             SR.SANITARY ENGINEER (1);
                                             SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1)
              10/10/2002                3    SR. SANITARY ENGINEER             U               S
                                             (1); L. OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); SR. FIN. SPECIALIST (1)
              04/11/2003                2    1 FNA, I EGR                      S               S

 ICR
              10/10/2004                2     1 FNA, 1 CONSULTANT              S               S




                                              - 36 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             NA
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  NA                         499,600
  Supervision                            NA                         494,000
  ICR                                      4
                                                                     17,000
  Total                                  NA                       1,010,000




                                            - 37 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

l Relevant information of supporting documents have been incorporated in the main text and in annexes.
  However, the following documents were also analyzed.
l Operator Contract between CALBIR and ALCESU signed in February 2003.
l Monitoring of Seawater Quality Around Alacati and Cesme, Reports produced during the period
  2000-2004 by the Marine Science and Technology Institute, 9 September University.




                                              - 40 -

- 41 -

