Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19479
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 2903-BOS
June 28, 1999
Energy Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 1,1999)
Currency Unit        Konvertible Marka (KM)
1KM    =    US$0.59
US$1    =    KM1.70
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Not applicable, new currency introduced in 1998)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
kV     :     Kilovolt
kW           Kilowatt
MW           Megowatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kWh  :       Kilowatt hours
GWh          Gigawatt hours = Imillion kWh
MVA          Megavolt amperes = 1,000 volt amperes
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BiH   -  Bosnia and Herzegovina
EBRD   -  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC,EU   -  European Commission, European Union
EPBiH   -  Elektroprivreda Bosnia and Herzegovina
EPM   -  Elektroprivreda Mostar
EPRS  -  Elektroprivreda Republika Srpska
ICR  -  Implementation Completion Report
OECF  -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
PIUL  -  Project Implementation Unit
PSA   -  Project Start-up Advance
RS  -  Republika Srpska
RUT  -  Tuzla Coal Mines
RUSB   -  Central Bosnia Coal Mines
SDR  -  Special Drawing Rights
USAID   -  US Agency for Intemational Development
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Christiaan J. Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Director Hossein Razavi, ECSEG
Sector Manager: Henk Busz, ECSEG
Responsible Staff: Richard Hamilton, ECSEG



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 2903-BOS
Contents
PREFACE ..................................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................................................................                                                                             ii
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .................................................................1I
A.   STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES .................................................................I
B.  ACHIEV EM EN                T OF OBJECTIVES ..................................................................3
C.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ..................................................................7
D.  PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .................................................................9
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE .................................................................9
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..................................................................9
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ..........1....................................................... 10
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS .................................................................                                                                 10
1.  KEY LESSONS LEARNED .................................................................                                                              10
PART II. STATISTICAL  TABLES ................................................................. 12
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ................................................................. 13
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ................................................................. 15
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE ................................................................. 17
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS:  CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ..................                                                ..................... 17
TABLE 6: KEY  INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ........................                                     ......................................... 19
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .................................................................                                                 19
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ................................................................. 22
TABLE 10:  STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ................................................................. 23
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .............................................................. 24
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ................................................................. 24
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .................................................................                                                   24
APPENDICES:
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Operational Plan
C. Beneficiary Contribution to the ICR
D. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- i -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 2903-BOS)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Emergency Electric Power
Reconstruction Project in Bosnia and Herzegovina, for which the Credit 29030-BOS in the amount of
SDR 24.9 million (US$35.6 million equivalent) was approved on July 30, 1996 and made effective on
September 20, 1996.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1998 as originally scheduled. It was 99% disbursed, and
the last disbursement took place on April 28, 1999, at which time a balance of SDR164,471.28
(US$222,600) remained. Parallel financing for the project was provided by Austria, Belgium, the Czech
Republic, the European Union, the European Bank of Reconstruction and Development, France,
Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the
United States and others.
The ICR was prepared by Weigong Cao, Anna Bjerde and Richard Hamilton (Team Leader),
Energy Unit, Europe and Central Asia Region. The ICR was reviewed by Henk Busz, Sector Leader,
Energy Unit, Europe and Central Asia Region, Baelhadj Merghoub, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Country
Department, and cleared by Christiaan Poortman, Country Director, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in November
1998. The ICR is based on the findings of the supervision missions, the material in the project file, and
on information and comments provided by the Beneficiaries and implementing agencies, EPBiH and
RUT. EPBiH contributed to preparation of the ICR by furnishing its own assessment of Project
performance.



-ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 2903-BOS
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    From 1991-95, Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) experienced Europe's most destructive war since
1945. War damage to the power system started in 1991 with destruction of transmission facilities and
thereafter spread to generating and distribution facilities. The damages were severe. Following the
Dayton-Paris Peace Agreement in December 1995, IDA took the lead role in establishing a
reconstruction program for the power sector. Together with co-financiers it prepared the US$196 million
Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project as the first of three operations covering the US$614
million reconstruction program of the electric power and coal sectors.
Project Objectives
2.    The project objectives were to: (i) restore electricity service to acceptable levels in major cities
and for vital industries; (ii) increase coal production in the most efficient mines to supply the fuel
necessary for the thermal power plants; (iii) reconfigure the electric power network to adapt to BiH's
separation from the rest of Former Yugoslavia; (iv) enhance the sector's institutional capacity and
improve its finances; and (v) support sector restructuring.  In addition the Project included the
establishment of a procurement monitoring and audit unit for all IDA financed, co-financed or
administered projects.
3.    The objectives were consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy. They were clear, and for
the most part, realistic.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The latest total Project cost estimate is US$182.43 million equivalent. The IDA Credit of
US$35.6 million was fully disbursed. Parallel financing was provided by: Austria, Belgium, the Czech
Republic, the European Union, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, France,
Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Switzerland, the United States and
others. The scope of work was increased for pollution controls at the Tuzla and Kakanj thermal power
stations and for transmission substations. By contrast, several components were dropped from the
Project including: the Mostar hydropower station (which was rehabilitated by Elektroprivreda Mostar -
EPM- from its own resources); the communications and control component (which was replaced by
rehabilitation of the Una hydropower station); the coal sector restructuring study (for lack of financing);
and the Procurement and Monitoring Unit (which was financed from another source). Less rehabilitation
of 110 kV transmission lines and of some distribution networks took place than planned because of
limited availability of funds.



- iii -
5.    Rehabilitation sub-projects were completed at: the Grabovica hydropower plant (2x5 7 MW);
Unit No. 3 (100 MW) of the Tuzla thermal power plant; Unit No. 5 (110 MW) of the Kakanj thermal
power plant; the Jajce hydropower plant (78 MW); and the Ugljevik thermal power plant (300 MW).
Electricity generation at the rehabilitated plants increased from 1,465 GWh in 1995 to 2,766 GWh in
1998. Transmission system rehabilitation covered: 500 km of 220 kV and 110 kV transmission lines; 26
110 kV substations; and 8 220 kV substations. Distribution system rehabilitation covered 600 km of
distribution lines and 190 MVA of substation capacity, allowing restoration of electricity supply to more
than 40,000 households. Technical assistance was provided by foreign experts to the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) in Elektroprivreda Bosnia and Herzegovina (EPBiH), and by local experts for
engineering, design, preparation of bidding documents and construction supervision. Feasibility studies
were carried out for rehabilitation of the Tuzla and Kakanj thermal power plants and the 400 kV
transmission system. An electricity tariff study was prepared as well as a power sector restructuring
study. A least-cost power investment study financed by EBRD is nearing completion.
6.    The components financed by the IDA Credit, the IDA managed Trust Funds (Austrian, Dutch,
Japanese and Norwegian), and the main components financed by Canada, the EU, Germany, Japan, the
UK, and the USA were completed by the originally scheduled Credit closing date of December 31, 1998.
The components still to be completed under parallel financing are: the Jablanica hydropower plant; Unit
No.6 at Kakanj; some power transformers; and the Una hydropower plant. All the remaining components
except Una will be completed in 1999. Completion of the rehabilitation of Una is scheduled for the end
of 2000.
7.    The financial position of EPBiH improved substantially during the Project implementation
period. Collected revenue was enhanced through a combination of increased electricity sales, tariff
increases and, of greatest importance, improved bill collection. Electricity sales increased by almost 60%
from 1,700 GWh in 1996 to 2,704 GWh in 1998. Part of the increase was due to a fall in distribution
losses from 25% of electricity entering distribution networks in 1996 to 14% in 1998. During the same
period, the average electricity price increased from 7.50 pf/kWh to 10.38 pf/kWh. Bill collection
improved from about 69% of the amount billed in 1996 to 91% in 1998. EPBiH exceeded the revenue
collection covenants of 90% and 100% of cash operating expenses in 1997 and 1998 respectively by
collecting 101 % and 118% for the two respective years. EPBiH also complied with the covenant to have
its records, accounts and financial statements audited each fiscal year.
Bank and Borrower Performance
8.    Bank performance is rated as highly satisfactory. The Bank responded quickly to the Borrower's
request for emergency reconstruction, and took the lead role among donors in designing the emergency
electric power reconstruction program. Bank involvement in the Project served as a catalyst for
financing by other donors.
9.    Bank staff cooperated fully with the executing agency during appraisal and implementation. The
frequency of missions was adequate - seven to EPBiH and five to RUT over two years. Bank staff were
diligent in stressing to EPBiH the need for strengthening sub-project coordination and billing system
improvement. They reviewed critical aspects of the Project, identified factors impeding implementation
and suggested remedial actions to be carried out by EPBiH and RUT. Such cooperation contributed to
the successful completion of the project on schedule.



-iv -
10.   EPBiH's perfonnance is rated as highly satisfactory. Project management and coordination with
outside agencies were handled in a competent manner. The PIU gained the autonomy and authority
required to implement the project, and was able to cope with the widely varying procedures of the many
co-financiers who participated in the project. RUT also performed satisfactorily. Project management
consisted of a small number of competent staff, cooperation with the Government was good and project
monitoring was adequate.
Assessment of Outcome
11.    The outcome of the project is satisfactory. The project met most of its physical, financial and
institutional objectives. All generating, transmission and distribution facilities rehabilitated under the
Project are operating satisfactorily. The rehabilitated coal mines have met the needs of the rehabilitated
coal power stations. The economic rate of return is a very satisfactory 48%. The power sector
components of the Project are likely to be sustainable. Sustainability of the coal sector component
depends on bridge financing and restructuring of the sector, both of which are provided for under the
Second Electric Power Reconstruction Project.
Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
12.    EPBiH and RUT operate their facilities satisfactorily, and periodical inspection of all facilities is
carried out. Each facility has its own preventive maintenance program specifying the tasks to be carried
out and execution periods. The Operational Plan includes timely provision of all necessary inputs for
effective operation and maintenance of the rehabilitated facilities. Both EPBiH and RUT are also among
the beneficiaries of the Second Electric Power Reconstruction Project.
13.   The key lessons learned are the following:
(i)    EPBiH showed that it is possible under early post-war conditions to raise revenue collection rates
to near normal levels (ICR, para 20).
(ii)   It would have been better to have a traditional co-financed project (or an IDA managed trust
fund) consisting of a relatively small number of co-financiers (or parallel financiers) with firm
commitments made prior to Board presentation instead of the looser arrangements made under the
Project. The latter were characterized by: a large number of co-financiers; a large financing gap at the
time of Board presentation; dropping or alteration of a number of Project components during
implementation; and independent procedures by some co-financiers which made coordination and Project
accounting difficult and time consuming (ICR, para 31).
(iii)   While the Project Start-Up Advance (PSA) made it possible to procure some goods and
equipment before Board approval of the Project, a number of difficulties arose when disbursements were
made, concerning the handling of transfers and adjustments between the District Heating and Power
Projects. If it is considered important to provide advance funding for future emergency projects, it would
be better to consider the use of enlarged Project Preparation Facilities (PPFs), thereby avoiding the
difficulties entailed in inter-project transfers of funds (ICR, para 32).
(iv)   A strong PIU within the utility is desirable for successful project implementation and subproject
coordination. Four factors contributed to the effectiveness of the PIU: (a) adequate quality, quantity and
continuity of staff; (b) sufficient autonomy; (c) adequate authority; and (d) full participation of all the
operational management units in EPBiH in project execution from the start until project completion
(ICR, para 38).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 2903-BOS
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
Introduction
1.    The Bank has provided substantial assistance to the electric power sector in Bosnia and
Herzegovina (BiH). Before the war, six Bank financed power projects focused on development of the
power transmission system and construction of hydropower plants. In 1990, power generation was
13,090 Gigawatt hours (GWh), while electricity consumption was 11,181 GWh. The system comprised
13 hydropower plants with a total capacity of 2,034 megawatts (MW) and an average output of 6,922
GWh/year, and 12 thermal power plants with a total capacity of 1,957 MW and an output of 10,675 GWh
in 1990. The BiH generation, transmission and distribution facilities were interconnected and operated at
the 400, 220, 110, 35, 20, 10 and 0.4 kV voltage levels.
2.    From 1991-95, BiH experienced Europe's most destructive war in the last 50 years. War damage
to the power system started in 1991 with destruction of transmission facilities and thereafter spread to
generation and distribution facilities. The damage to the power sector was caused not only by direct
destruction but also by insufficient maintenance due to shortage of materials, spare parts and
maintenance equipment. At the beginning of 1996, half of the total generating capacity in the Federation
was reported to have been damaged or destroyed. Part of the remaining capacity was out of operation
due to destroyed transmission lines or lack of coal. Most plants in the Federation and Republika Srpska
(RS) suffered from lack of maintenance during the war. About 60% of the transmission network and
control system in the Federation was seriously damaged, including transmission facilities and lines to
neighboring countries. The transmission network and control system in RS was also heavily damaged,
particularly in those areas located close to confrontation lines. Many distribution networks were badly
damaged in both the Federation and RS. In the Federation, coal production dropped to 1. 1 million tons in
1993, or 9% of the pre-war level of about 12 million tons per year.
3.    Following the Dayton-Paris Peace Agreements in December 1995, BiH put high priority on
rehabilitating and reconstructing the power system as one of the primary means to re-launch economic
growth. The Bank took the lead role among donors in establishing the power sector rehabilitation and
reconstruction investment priorities. In a joint effort with the country and the donor community an
Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project with an investment cost of US$196 million equivalent
was prepared as the first of three operations covering the US$614 million reconstruction program of the
electric power and coal sectors.



-2 -
Project Objectives
4.     The objectives of the Project were to: (i) restore electricity service to acceptable levels in major
cities and for vital industries; (ii) increase coal production in the most efficient mines to supply the fuel
necessary for the thermal plants; (iii) reconfigure the electric power network to adapt to BiH's separation
from the rest of Former Yugoslavia; (iv) enhance the sector's institutional capacity and improve its
finances; and (v) support sector restructuring. In addition the project included the establishment of a
procurement monitoring and audit unit for all IDA financed, co-financed or administered projects.
5.     The Project was defined as a two and a half year (1996-1998) time slice of the reconstruction
program for the electric power ssector and selected associated coal mines. Because the core of the BiH
electricity system (almost 50% of the generation capacity) is managed by EPBiH and many facilities in
the core system suffered major destruction, the main focus of the first phase rehabilitation was on
EPBiH's service area.
6.     The Project components included:
(a)   rehabilitation of four hydropower stations and three thermal power stations;
(b)   reconstruction of about 350 km of 220 kV and 110 kV transmission lines, and 31 220 kV and 110
kV substations needed for rebuilding the most damaged power supply system;
(c)   reconstruction of distribution networks;
(d)   repair of communication and system control;
(e)    purchase of service vehicles for maintenance;
(f)    purchase of spare parts;
(g)   rehabilitation of associated coal mines to meet the coal supply needs of the thermal power
stations;
(h)    technical assistance in engineering, design, construction supervision and project management;
(i)    technical assistance to EPBiH in procurement and project implementation;
(j)    thermal power study;
(k)    power sector restructuring study;
(I)    least-cost investment study;
(mn)    electricity tariff study;
(n)    coal sector restructuring study; and
(o)    Procurement Monitoring and Auditing Unit.



- 3 -
7.    The objectives were consistent with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy. They were clear, and
for the most part, realistic. The selected physical components were critically needed for restoration of
power to residents of major cities, street lights, tram service, water pumping facilities, industries and
viable coal mines. The focus on rehabilitation of the 220 kV core transmission networks, which benefit
both the Federation and Republika Srpska, conformed with the Government's reconstruction priorities.
The reconstruction efforts were well received by the Borrower and implementing agencies.
B.    Achievement of Objectives
Project Costs and Financing
8.    At the time of appraisal, the project was estimated to cost US$ 196.35 equivalent, of which US$
35.6 million equivalent (or SDR24.9 million) was to be financed by the IDA Credit. Out of the IDA
Credit US$30 million equivalent was for power, US$5 million equivalent was for coal, and US$0.6
million equivalent was for the Procurement Monitoring and Audit Unit. This purpose of this Unit was to
monitor the procurement activities of all the IDA-financed emergency projects in the country, not just the
Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project. The latest revised total project cost estimate was
US$182.43 million equivalent (about 95% of the appraisal estimate), comprising local costs of US$14.07
million equivalent (compared with the appraisal estimate of US$15 million equivalent) and foreign costs
of US$168.36 million equivalent (compared with the appraisal estimate of US$181.35 equivalent). The
IDA Credit was fully disbursed. Parallel financing for the project was provided by Austria, Belgium, the
Czech Republic, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Union, France,
Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the
United States, and other donors. All of the IDA Credit and about 70% of the other donor financing went
to EPBiH.
9.    There was greater spending on several components than expected at the time of appraisal.
Additional expenditures were made at the Tuzla and Kakanj thermal power stations for pollution
controls, including reductions in dust emissions, waste water treatment and environmental mitigation
measures in ash disposal areas. The scope was increased for the transmission substations component.
10.   Several components were either dropped from the Project or carried out only partially. Because
of a dispute over the ownership of the Mostar hydropower station between EPM and EPBiH, this plant
was taken out of the Project and rehabilitated by EPM using its own resources. Because of limited
parallel financing, some distribution system rehabilitation and the coal sector restructuring study could
not be undertaken. Less rehabilitation of 110 kV lines took place than was planned because reduced
funding by the donor. The comnmunications and control component was replaced by rehabilitation of the
Una hydropower station by agreement between EPBiH and EBRD. The Procurement Monitoring and
Audit Unit was removed from the Project and financed from another source. This component was never
an integral part of the Project, but was added during negotiations to ensure correct implementation of all
the IDA supported emergency projects in BiH.
Physical Components and Technical Assistance
11.   Generation. The Grabovica hydropower plant (2x57 MW), financed by IDA, was rehabilitated
and re-commissioned in December 1996. After rehabilitation the capacity of the plant increased from
113 MW to 117 MW with an additional annual generation of 11.7 GWh. Since then it has been operating
normally and generated a total of 804 GWh of electricity. The Tuzia thermal power plant Unit No.3
(100 MW), financed by IDA, was rehabilitated and re-commissioned in December 1997. Since then it
has been operating at 5,600 hours annually and has already generated a total of 288 GWh of electricity



- 4 -
and 136 GWh of heat energy. Unit No. 5 (110 MW) of the Kakanj thermal power plant financed by
USAID, Japan, EU and the Czech Republic, was re-commissioned in October 1998. Replacement of the
regulator for the turbine and the generator and mechanical auxiliary equipment for Jajce hydropower
plant, financed by Austria, was completed at the end of 1998. The first phase of rehabilitation of the
Ugljevik thermal power plant, financed by UK, was completed. The 300 MW unit has been re-
commissioned and is sending power to Banja Luka and other areas.
12.   Environment. EPBiH successfully carried out the priority items of the agreed environmental
action plan. Installation of an environmental monitoring system in the Tuzla power plant enabled
continuous monitoring of emissions of all pollutants as well as ambient air quality. Rehabilitation of the
electrostatic precipitators for boilers No.3 and 4 of the 100 MW unit at Tuzla the led to a reduction in
dust emissions from 330-540 mg/m3 to less than 150 mg/m3. Environmental mitigation measures,
financed by the Japanese Trust Fund, were implemented at the Kakanj thermal power plant. The impact
has been significant: (i) contamination of the Bosnia River by untreated waste water from the Kakanj
thermal power plant and by leakage water from the ash disposal area has been sharply reduced; (ii) a
significant reduction of dust was achieved through installation of bag filters on ash silos; (iii) heat energy
losses from the district heating transmission pipeline were reduced from more than 10% to 2% resulting
in a reduction of heat energy consumption in the town of Kakanj.
13.     Transmission Lines and Substations.  Significant progress was accomplished in the
rehabilitation of the 110 and 220 kV facilities. About 500 km of 220 kV and 110 kV transmission lines,
financed by the EU, Japan, Germany, Netherlands, and the UK, were rehabilitated. Twenty-six 110 kV
substations and eight 220 kV substations, financed by IDA, Belgium, Germany, Japan, UK, Canada,
USAID, and EBRD, with a total capacity of about 1,600 MVA, were also rehabilitated. The equipment
as well as civil works and installation are of good standards and function satisfactorily. As a result of
rehabilitation of these transmission facilities the north-south 220 kV core connection from Tuzla, via
Zenica to the Neretva River cascade was strengthened. Restoration of the 220 kV trans-country
transmission network, from Trebinje, via Mostar, Jablanica, Kakanj to Jajce has significantly improved
the availability and reliability of power supply to Sarajevo, Tuzla, Zenica, Mostar, Gorazde, Foca, Banja
Luka, Bihac and their environs, and enabled improved power exchanges between the Entities.
14.    Distribution. About 600 km of 35, 10, 20 and 0.4 kV distribution lines and a total capacity of
190 MVA of 3 5/10 kV and 10(20)/0.4 kV substations, financed by EU, UK, USAID, Japan, Norway and
other donors, were restored in Sarajevo, Tuzla, Zenica, Mostar, Bihac, Maglaj, Gorazde, Forca, Banja
Luka, Doboj, Bejeljina, Glamoc, and Jajce. These actions restored electricity supply to more than 40,000
households.
15.   Spare Parts and Service Vehicles. Spare parts were financed by IDA in order to maintain
operation of the 32 MW co-generation units in the Tuzla and Kakanj thermal power plants for another 2-
3 years before full rehabilitation. EBRD and the Netherlands (through the Dutch Trust Fund) financed
134 specialized maintenance vehicles for use in maintenance of generation, transmission and distribution
facilities.
16.   Associated Coal Mines. The objective of the coal mine rehabilitation component was to help
meet the coal supply needs of the Tuzla, Kakanj and Ugljevik thernal power plants through supply of
consumable materials, replacement of key small equipment damaged beyond repair and overhaul of
major production equipment of the lowest-cost coal mines. All equipment financed by the EU, IDA,
Japan, and the UK and procured and installed under the Project is now operational. The mining
companies have been able to significantly raise productivity, through increased production and reduction
of manpower. During the first 9 months of 1998, the rehabilitated mines belonging to RUT produced at



a rate of 1.9 million tons per year, or 39 % higher than in 1997 and 97 % higher than in 1996. The Tuzla
power plant's coal requirements have been fully met, despite faster than projected increase of power
generation. During the first 9 months of 1998, the rehabilitated mines belonging to RUSB produced at a
rate of 0.8 million tons per year, or 43 % higher than in 1997 and 85 % higher than in 1996. The Kakanj
power plant's coal requirements have been fully met, at a rate significantly higher than estimated at
appraisal.
17.    Technical Assistance and Project Management Support. The Norwegian Power Expert Group,
financed by the Norwegian Trust Fund, successfully assisted the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in
project management, procurement, cost control, and in specialized areas of hydropower reconstruction.
The Norwegian experts provided training and knowledge transfer. They also assisted in setting up a
management information system, interconnecting computers procured under the Project. The local
consultant contract financed by IDA for engineering, design, preparation of bidding documents and
construction supervisions was completed successfully.  EPBiH's PIU  and its local engineering
consultants are now capable of implementing the next power project on their own. Under the Project,
IDA financed office repairs and basic office equipment for the PIU.
18.   Studiesfor Rehabilitation of Power Plants and Transmission System. A long-term rehabilitation
study for the Tuzla and Kakanj thermal power plants was completed with the assistance of Verbundplan
of Austria, financed by the Austrian Trust Fund.  A feasibility study for the rehabilitation of the
transmission system, financed by the UK, was prepared by Mott Ewbank Preece. The study provided
justification for the investments for further rehabilitation of the high voltage transmission facilities, and
recommendations for institutional arrangements for operation of the transmission system. These studies
could serve as useful references for the further rehabilitation of the thermal power plants and the
transmission networks.
19.   In summary, despite the problems inherent in coordinating with so many co-financiers, the
project met substantially the objectives of rehabilitating critical power plants, principal substations, and
major transmission and distribution networks. It was also prepared and completed quickly (except for the
components listed in para. 30), in accordance with the original plan, with a t'otal time from identification
through project closing of just three years. The electricity generation of the rehabilitated facilities was
increased by 66% from 1,465 GWh in 1995 to 2,427 GWh in 1998. Electricity service has been restored
to acceptable levels in major cities and for vital industries, thereby providing an important basis for
resumption of economic growth. The emphasis on minimizing the down time required for power plant
rehabilitation, using local labor and suppliers as much as possible when consistent with economy and
efficiency, and rehabilitating only economically viable coal mines, was appropriate for achieving the
objectives.
Financial Component
20.   EPBiH's financial performance was severely affected during the war. Revenue collections
plunged due to difficulties for customers to pay their bills as well as displacements of many residential
customers. Since the end of the war in 1995, EPBiH has been working hard at improving its financial
performance and outstanding progress has been achieved. A most impressive area of improvement is in
the collection of electricity bills. In 1998, EPBiH collected over 90% of its bills and was thus able to
meets its liabilities. Accounts receivable were, on average, equivalent to only 40 days of billings.



-6 -
Summary of Financial Performance
('000 DM)
1996      1997       1998
Electricity Sales (GWh)                             1,700                2,704
Total Revenues                                      198,230    330,947    381,712
Cash operating expenses                             167,638    257,156    290,425
Net profit (loss) margin (%)                        (41%)      (49%)      (27%)
Collection rate (%)                                 69.3%      78.8%     91.1%
Revenue collected                                   137453    260,661    347,960
Revenue collections as % of cash operating expenses (%)   81.9%  101.4%   119.8%
Covenant under IDA Credit (%)                       60%        90%        100%
21.   A key reason for the impressive improvement in billing and collection is the strong emphasis
management of EPBiH has placed on metering, accurate meter reading, billing of electricity used and
ensuring that bills are promptly collected. During 1996 and 1997, EPBiH restored and improved its
billing and collection systems to allow for accurate monitoring of bill collections and to be able to
quickly identify non-paying customers. Individual metering at both residential and industry premises is
also contributing to be the better collection perfornance. EPBiH has initiated a series of legal actions
against the customers with the long-standing arrears, and is disconnecting the most delinquent customers.
22.   EPBiH also increased its electricity tariff rates. The 1998 average tariff rate of approximately
10.38 pf/kWh is close to the US¢7/kWh average rate in efficiently operated electricity companies in
Westem Europe. The combination of increased electricity sales and tariff rates resulted in a 60% growth
in electricity revenue between 1996 and 1998.
23.   Throughout the project implementation period, EPBiH  complied with the two financial
covenants: (i) to have records, accounts and financial statements audited each fiscal year; and (ii) to
collect (as a percentage of annual cash operating expenses) 60% in 1996, 90% in 1997, and 100% in
1998. Due to the substantial progress in collecting bills, EPBiH exceeded the revenue collection
covenants in 1997 and 1998 by collecting 101% and 120% of annual cash operating expenses,
respectively. Nevertheless, total revenue collected fell short of covering total operating expenses,
including depreciation and finance charges.
Sector Restructuring and Institutional Strengthening
24.   Power sector restructuring. PTior to the war, BiH had a single vertically integrated state-owned
power company. There are currently three vertically integrated power companies (EPBiH, EPM and
EPRS) serving three separate groups of consumers (Bosniacs, Croats and Serbs).  The current
arrangements lack the economies of scale and coordination that existed before the war. They also lack
the potential benefits that could be reaped from competition. While this serious problem was not
addressed under the emergency project because of the desire to proceed quickly on reconstruction, it was
the intention to address it in the follow-up Second Electric Power Reconstruction Project. This is being
done under Credit 3071-BOS.
25.   Least Cost Investment Study.  A study (financed by Switzerland) to prepare a long term
investment strategy, although delayed, is close to completion. It will provide guidance on priority power



- 7 -
sector investments and will be taken into account during the preparation of the Third Electric Power
Reconstruction Project.
26.   Electricity Tarif Study. An electricity tariff study was completed in March 1999, with EBRD
financing. Actions based on the study's recommendations for the Federation and RS are being prepared
in discussion with the Bank and will be monitored under the Second Electric Power Reconstruction
Project (Cr. 3071-BOS).
Economic Rate of Return
27.   The economic rate of return was calculated using the same method as at the time of appraisal.
The benefits were taken to be the additional sales by EPBiH attributable to the Project investments
valued at actual tariff rates through 1998 and at the 1998 tariff rate for 1999 and future years. Under this
approach the incremental revenue is considered to be a measure of willingness to pay. The costs
included: the investments in EPBiH; operating and maintenance costs of EPBiH's rehabilitated facilities;
and incremental coal mining operating costs. Taxes and duties were excluded from these costs. The rate
of return was calculated to be 48%, compared to the estimate of 33% at the time of appraisal. The higher
ex post rate of return was due to higher tariff rates than assumed at the time of appraisal and lower
incremental coal mining costs. These positive differences more than offset the adverse impact of lower
than forecast incremental electricity sales. A sensitivity test was carried out using collected revenue
instead of billed revenue, as a more conservative estimate of willingness to pay. The resulting rate of
return is still a very high 40%.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
28.    Since it was an emergency project, the financing plan had to be prepared quickly. It was based
mainly on pledges made at a conference of donors for the reconstruction program for all sectors. During
project preparation and implementation, some donors either did not honor their pledges or did so
belatedly. A financing gap of US$68 million remained at the time of Board approval. Considerable
efforts were made to secure the necessary parallel financing. Japan, the Netherlands, Norway and the
United States helped reduce the financing gap by committing more than the amounts they had previously
pledged. The total financing is expected to be US$182.43 equivalent, of which US$160.40 million
equivalent for power (compared with appraisal estimate of US$178.95 million equivalent) and US$22.03
million equivalent for associated coal mines (compared with the appraisal estimate of US$17.4 million
equivalent).
29.    Although there was an initial delay in project start-up due to the financing short-fall and the coal
companies' lack of familiarity with Bank procurement and disbursement procedures, the components
financed by the IDA Credit, the IDA managed Trust Funds (Austrian, Dutch, Japanese, and Norwegian),
Canada, the EU, Japan, Norway, the UK (except for Kakanj Unit No. 6 - see para. 30) and the United
States were completed by the closing date.
30.   There have been delays in the following project components:
(i)     Jablanica hydropower plant.  This Swiss-financed component was delayed by
protracted technical discussions on preparation of specifications and procurement and contract
negotiations. Equipment delivery started in September 1998. According to the revised construction
schedule, all equipment installation was to have been completed by March 1999. Trial operation was to
be completed in April 1999. Commercial operation of Unit No.4 was scheduled for early July 1999,



-8 -
about 6 months behind the original schedule. The delay has not resulted in any power constraint since
the plant has been operating, although with a high risk of outages.
(ii)    Kakanj Unit No.6. Because of the late delivery of the electrostatic precipitator, this
USAID financed unit was completed and re-commissioned in May 1999. The delayed in re-starting the
plant did not cause a power constraint since adequate production was available from other units.
(iii)   Power transformers. Signing of the Belgian financed contracts for supply of one 220
and four I 10 kV power transformers was delayed because of a delay in opening the Letter of Credit. The
equipment is expected to be delivered by July 1999. Installation of the equipment at the Gradacac,
Sarajevo and Bihac substations will be completed by September 1999. In the absence of the equipment
transmission losses have probably been higher than they will be after the equipment is installed.
(iv)   Una hydropower plant rehabilitation. In late 1997, EBRD replaced the Communication
and Control component under the project with the rehabilitation of the Una hydropower plant (4xl.5
MW) in the Bihac area. Procurement is expected to be completed in early 1999. The rehabilitation is
scheduled to be completed at the end of the year 2000.
31.   Most of the donors used their own procedures to procure and deliver the goods and services they
financed. Some contributions were in kind, i.e., equipment, materials, or consultants, with the costs
being registered in agreements between the parties. In a few cases equipment was procured which the
PIU felt was not entirely suited to EPBiH's needs. The different procedures of the different donors led to
fragmentation of the project management and accounting systems. EPBiH's PIU, which implemented
and monitored most of the Project, kept separate accounts for each donor, in essence treating each
donor's contribution as a separate project. There was a set of accounts for IDA, another for USAID, a
third for the EU, etc. The different procedures of the different donors imposed major administrative
burdens on the PIU.
32.   Disbursements. The IDA component was designed to start before Board approval through the
use of a US$3.8 million Project Start-Up Advance (PSA) made available from the US$20 million Credit
for the earlier Emergency District Heating Reconstruction Project (TF 24034). The PSA was to be
reimbursed from the Credit for the Emergency Power Project, and a district heating category was created
for this purpose in Schedule 1 of the Electric Power Project's Development Credit Agreement.
Difficulties were experienced in administering this process.  Because of adverse exchange rate
movements, there were over-drafts of the district heating and coal categories of Schedule I as well as of
one of the Trust Funds managed by the Bank.   The over-drafts of the district heating and coal
components could not be offset by under-drawing other categories, since those categories were for
disbursements by EPBiH, a different beneficiary. Furthermore, the gap between the total amount in these
categories and the total of the commitments made by EPBiH was less than the amount of money needed
for this purpose. These difficulties caused confusion and delay in project disbursements, particularly in
the later stage of project implementation. The solutions involved using the savings from not financing
the Procurement Auditing and Monitoring Unit from the IDA Credit to finance the over-drafts of the
district heating and coal categories and using cost savings under the IDA Credit to finance the over-draft
of the Trust Fund. If it is considered important to provide advance funding for future emergency
projects, it would be better to consider the use of enlarged Project Preparation Facilities (PPFs), thereby
avoiding the difficulties entailed in inter-project transfers of funds.
33.   The Bank managed Austrian, Dutch, Japanese and Norwegian Trust Funds for the Project were
fully disbursed.



-9-
D.    Project Sustainability
34.   Electric Power. EPBiH has demonstrated the ability to rehabilitate and operate its power system
through implementing the power component of the Emergency Recovery Project and the Emergency
Electric Power Reconstruction Project on schedule. With proper maintenance and operating practice the
rehabilitated facilities will be productive for many years. Further reconstruction and rehabilitation are
needed, but these will be financed by the Second Electric Power Reconstruction Project and the possible
Third Electric Power Reconstruction Project. An additional requirement for sustainability is that EPBiH
collects sufficient revenue to provide funds to cover operating and maintenance expenditures and the
local costs of investments in further rehabilitation of the power system.  EPBiH's satisfactory
performnance on bill collection through 1998 is reassuring in this respect. Continued progress in this field
will ensure project sustainability.
35.   Coal. RUT and RUSB have carried out rehabilitation of the selected coal mines promptly and
are operating the facilities effectively. However, sustainability depends on early restructuring of the two
mnining companies, which will involve closing uneconomic mines and providing satisfactory
compensation for redundant miners and their families. Mainly for social reasons, the companies and the
Govemment are presently supporting uneconomic mines, thereby draining away scarce resources needed
to further improve the viable mines supported under the Project. Some bridge financing for the viable
mines is being provided by OECF under the Second Electric Power Reconstruction Project. The
restructuring study originally planned under the Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project and
follow-up restructuring actions are covenanted under the same project. The restructuring study is
underway. In view of these conmmitments, sustainability of the coal component of the project is
considered to be likely.
E.    Bank Performance
36.   Bank performnance is rated as highly satisfactory. The Bank responded quickly to the Borrower's
request for emergency reconstruction, and took the lead role among donors in establishing the emergency
electric power reconstruction program during a difficult and confusing period of time. Bank involvement
in the Project served as a catalyst for financing by other donors.
37.   Bank staff cooperated fully with EPBiH and RUT during appraisal and implementation. The
frequency of missions was adequate - seven to EPBiH and five to RUT over two years. Bank staff were
diligent in stressing to EPBiH the need for strengthening sub-project coordination and billing system
improvement. They reviewed critical aspects of the Project, identified factors impeding implementation
and suggested remedial actions to be carried out by EPBiH and RUT. Such cooperation contributed to
the successful completion of the Project on schedule.
F.    Borrower Performance
38.   EPBiH's performance is rated as highly satisfactory. Project management and coordination with
different EPBiH departments, government institutions, the Bank and other donors were undertaken in a
competent manner by the PIU. The PIU successfully handled procurement, disbursements and contract
management, monitored execution of the project and compliance with legal agreements, and prepared the
required progress reports. The PIU has gained the autonomy and authority required to implement the
project, and succeeded in coordinating reconstruction under difficult circumstances and in complying
with complex multi-agency administrative procedures. The continuity of its director and qualified
personnel throughout the period of project implementation allowed it to fulfill its obligations. In
addition, all the operational management units in EPBiH participated in project execution and



- 10-
institutional strengthening from the start until project completion. It was the team approach that enabled
the PIU successfully coordinate, follow-up and monitor all project activities with a small core team.
39.    RUT performed satisfactorily in preparing and implementing the project. Project management
consisted of a small number of competent staff, cooperation with outside agencies was good and project
monitoring was adequate.
G.    Assessment of Outcome
40.    The outcome of the Project is satisfactory. The Project met most of its physical, financial and
institutional objectives. All generating, transmission and distribution facilities rehabilitated under the
Project, are operating satisfactorily. The rehabilitated coal mines have met the needs of the rehabilitated
coal power stations. The economic rate of return is a very satisfactory 48%. The power sector
components of the Project are likely to be sustainable. Sustainability of the coal sector component
depends on bridge financing and restructuring of the sector, both of which are provided for under the
Second Electric Power Reconstruction Project.
H.    Future Operations
41.    EPBiH and RUT operate their facilities satisfactorily, and periodical inspection of all facilities is
carried out. Each facility has its own preventive maintenance program specifying the tasks to be carried
out and execution periods. These tasks are being carried out in accordance with international standards,
manufacturers' recommendations and the experience of qualified personnel from EPBiH and RUT. As a
result of the Project, EPBiH's in-house capacity has substantially increased. It can be expected that
EPBiH will continue to rehabilitate, operate and maintain its facilities competently and will also continue
its efforts to improve the company's financial performance. The Operational Plan includes timely
provision of all necessary inputs for effective operation and maintenance of the rehabilitated facilities.
Both EPBiH and RUT are beneficiaries of the Second Electric Power Reconstruction Project.
1.     Key Lessons Learned
42.    The key lessons learned are the following:
(i)    EPBiH showed that it is possible under early post-war conditions to raise revenue collection rates
to near normal levels.
(ii)   It would have been better to have a traditional co-financed project (or an IDA managed trust
fund) consisting of a relatively small number of co-financiers (or parallel financiers) with firm
commitments made prior to Board presentation instead of the looser arrangements made under the
Project. The latter were characterized by: a large number of co-financiers; a large financing gap at the
time of Board presentation; dropping or alteration of a number of Project components during
implementation; and independent procedures by some co-financiers which made coordination and Project
accounting difficult and time consuming.
(iii)   While the Project Start-Up Advance (PSA) made it possible to procure some goods and
equipment before Board approval of the Project, a number of difficulties arose when disbursements were
made, concerning the handling of transfers and adjustments between the District Heating and Power
Projects. If it is considered important to provide advance funding for future emergency projects, it would
be better to consider the use of enlarged Project Preparation Facilities (PPFs), thereby avoiding the
difficulties entailed in inter-project transfers of funds.



(iv)    A strong Project Implementation Unit (PTU) within the utility is desirable for successful project
implementation and subproject coordination. Four factors contributed to the effectiveness of the PIU: (a)
adequate quality, quantity and continuity of staff; (b) sufficient autonomy; (c) adequate authority; and (d)
full participation of all the operational management units in EPBiH in project execution from the start
until project completion.



- 12 -
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions



- 13 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partialible                     Not aDlcable
Macro Policies                       [                E 0l                              0
Sector Policies                       J                a                o                 0
Financial Objectives                 0                 O                O                  ]
Institutional Development                              0               El                El
Physical Objectives                                   i: O                               1]
Poverty Reduction                   El                                 E                 0
Gender Issues                         ]               E                E                 0
Other Social Objectives                               E                E o
Environmental Objectives                             E                 E                 El
Public Sector Management             n               E                 El                0
Private Sector Development          E                E                 E                 0
Other (specify)                                     EEl                                 0
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                    Unlikely                  Uncertain
(/)                       (1)                        (/1)
C. Bank Performance                  Satisfactorv              Satisfactorv                Deficient
(1)                      (' )                       (V)
Identification                       0                        E                          El
Preparation Assistance               0                        E                          E
Appraisal                            0                        E                          El
Supervision                          0                        a                          o



- 14-
D. Borrower Performance             Satisfactorv             Satisfactory               Deficient
(/)                      (/)                      (1)
Preparation                                                  E                         El
Implementation                                              i: 0 
Covenant Comnpliance                                        1] 0 
Operation (if applicable)           a                        o                         o
Hi                                                  Hi
E. Assessment of Outcome           Satisfactorv    Satisfactorv    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactorv
(E)             (E)              (E)(



- 15 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title        Purpose             Year of approval          Status
Preceding operations
Pre-Independence
1. Loan 836-YU        To help finance the           1972           Completed in 1977
development of a
Yugoslav interconnected
power system
2. Loan 1469-YU       Continue to help finance      1977            Completed in 1983
the development of a
Yugoslav interconnected
power system
3. Loan 1561-Yu       Development of the           1968             Completed in 1983
(Tranche I)           Middle Neretva River in
Bosnia and Hezegovina
4. Loan 1561-YU       Construction of Mostar       1983             Completed in 1988
(Tranche II)          dam
5. Loan 2338-YU       Finance a complete           1983             After ten years of
energy management                            implementation total
system to operate the                        disbursements were
Yugoslav interconnected                      less than one-third of
system                                       the loan. The balance
of the loan was
canceled after the
break-up of former
Yugoslavia in 1992.
6. Loan 2527-YU       Construction of Visegrad     1985             Completed in 1989
Hydroelectric Project
Post-Independence
7. Trust Fund 24030-    Critical imports of spare  1996             Completed in 1997
BOS                   parts and materials for
Emergency Recovery   the power sector
Poject
Following operations
1. Credit 3028-BA
Reconstruction        Repairing transmission       1997             Under implementation
Assistance Project    and distribution



- 16-
infrastructure in Banja
Luka
2. Credit 3071-BA
Second Electric Power   Continue to rehabilitate       1998             It became effective on
Reconstruction project   generation plants,                             March 31, 1999
transrmission/distribution
facilities and associated
coal mines



- 17 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned         Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)        01/96               01/96
Preparation                                       01/96               01/96
Appraisal                                         03/96               03/96
Negotiations                                      04/96               04/96
Board Presentation                                07/96               07/96
Signing                                           08/96               08/96
Effectiveness                                     09/96               09/96
Project Completion                                06/98               12/98
Credit Closing                                    12/98               12/98
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions equivalent)
FY199   FY1997  FY1998   FY1999
6
Appraisal estimate        0.5      19.3     35.0      -
Actual                    0.0      12.7     33.4      35.4
Actual as % of estimate   -        65.8     95.4      99.4
Date of final disbursement                            April 28



- 18 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation                    Estimated                Actual/ICR estimate
indicators in PAD
Rehabilitation and maintenance
of hydro power plant at:
Jablanica                               1998                         1999
Grabovica                               1997                         1996
Mostar                                  1998                         1997
Jajce                                   1998                         1998
Rehabilitation and maintenance
of thermalpower plant at:
Tuzla (lxlOO MW unit)                   1997                         1997
Kakanj(2xl 10 MW unit)                  1998                         1999
Ugljevik (1x300 MW unit)                1997                         1997
Reconstruction of the
transmission facilities:
220 kV transmission lines               1997                         1997
110 kV transmission lines               1997                         1997
220/110/35 kV substations               1997                         1998
110/35/10 kV substations                1997                         1998
Reconstruction of distribution
networks                                1997                         1998
Repair of communications and            1997                   Not implemented. In late 1997 EBRD
control                                                 replaced the component with the
system control                                                 rehabilitation of Una hydro power
plant(4xl .5 MW), which is scheduled to be
completed by the end of 2000.
Maintenance Vehicles                    1997                         1998
Spare parts for maintenance             1997                         1997
Technical assistance                    1997                         1997
Project management support              1998                         1998
Rehabilitation of associated
coal mines at:
Tuzla                                   1997                         1998
Kakanj                                  1997                         1998
Ugljevik                                1997                         1998



- 19 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated                      Actual
Key operating indicators in SAR
1. Supply of coal for the    RTU to enter into long-term    Implemented
Tuzla Power Station     supply contract with EPBiH
2. Institute billing      Bill collection of at least 60%,  80% in 1996, 101% in 1997,
collection system               90% and 100% of total annual  and 107% in 1998
cash operating expenses for
1996, 1997 and 1998
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                                Purpose as defined at      Status     Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1. Long-term rehabilitation study    For the preparation of future  Completed    Could be used as
for Tuzla and Kakanj thermal    investment program                          reference for
power plants                                                                future plant
rehabilitation
2. Feasibility study for the    For further rehabilitation of the  Completed   Used as reference
rehabilitation of the transmission    high voltage transmission            for establishing
system                          facilities                                 the Joint Power
Coordinating
Center, and for
future
transmission
rehabilitation
3. Privatization project report  For preparation of power sector  Completed   Recommendations
restructuring                              are being used for
drafting
Electricity Laws
4. Long term investment study   For preparation of power sector  Ongoing    Could provide
investment long term strategy              guidance for long
term investment
5.. Electricity tariffs study   For adjustments to electricity    Completed   Agreed
tariffs                                    reconunendations
will be the basis
for a tariff action
plan to be
implemented
under the Second
Electric Power
Reconstruction
Project



- 20 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimates
Item                          (US$ million)                 (US$ million)
Local 1Foreign costs| Total   Local    Foreign     Total
costs              lCot     costs                  
I  ELECTRIC POWER                                                                              |
A. Generation
I  Jablanica Hydro Plant                        7.10      7.10     0.37       7.10      7.47
2  Grabovica Hydro Plant              -         3.00       3.00     0.04      2.38      2.42
3  Mostar Hydro Plant i              1.70       11.67     13.37      -         -          -
4  Jajce I Hydro Plant                -         1.00       1.00      -        1.00       1.00
5  UNA Hydro Plant                               -          -       0.50      3.99      4.49
6  Tuzla Thermal Plant               1.02       9.18      10.20    0.80       15.25     16.05
7  Kakanj Thermal Plant              1.40       12.60     14.00    0.96      22.74      23.70
8  Ugljevik Thermal Plant             -         1.50       1.50    0.87       1.50      2.37
B. Substations
1  220 kV                            0.55       4.95      5.50     0.81       5.34      6.15
2  110kV                             0.85       7.65       8.50     2.20      12.20      14.4
C. Transmission Lines
1  220 kV                            0.54       4.86      5.40      1.30      3.92      5.22
2  110 kV                            1.32       11.88     13.20    0.56       5.60      6.16
D. Communication & System              -        4.00       4.00       -         -          -
Control                                                                                    l
E. Distribution Networks             6.13       55.15      61.28    3.65      40.50     44.15
F.  Spare Parts                        -        13.70      13.70      -       12.32      12.32
G. Maintenance Vehicles                -         7.50      7.50               7.01       7.01
H. Engineering & Project             0.99        5.61      6.60       -        1.36      1.36
Supervision
I.  Project Management Support       0.20       1.10       1.30     1.34      1.19       2.53
J. Technical Assistance              0.10        1.70      1.80     0.60      3.00       3.60
II  ASSOCIATED COAL MINES
A. Central Bosnian Mine                -        10.00      10.00      -       16.59      16.59
B. Tuzla Mines                                  5.00       5.00       -       5.03       5.03
C. Ugljevik Mine                       -         1.50      1.50     0.07      0.34       0.41
D. Technical Assistance              0.20       0.70       0.90       -         -          -
TOTAL                            15.00     181.35     196.35   14.07     168.36    182.43
Elektroprivreda Mostar claimed that it used its own resources of about DM 24 million to rehabilitate Mostar hydro power plant in 1997



- 21 -
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate        Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)               (US$ million)
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs              costs    costs
I   ELECTRIC POWER[              I         I        I         I        I
I   IDA                     -       35.00    35.00       -      34.24    34.24
2   Austria                  -       5.00     5.00       -       1.80      1.80
3   Belgium                  -      2.50      2.50       -       2.50      2.50
4   Czech                    -       0.90     0.90       -       0.90      0.90
5   EC                      -       38.38    38.38       -       24.48    24.48
6   EBRD                     -      10.00     10.00      -       15.60    15.60
7   Germany                 -       2.00      2.00       -       2.03      2.03
8   Japan                   -        1.70     1.70       -       13.38    13.38
9   Japan, UK, Canada        -      11.90     11.90      -       7.37      7.37
10  Norway                   -       1.00      1.00      -       4.59      4.59
11  Netherlands              -       2.70     2.70       -        8.83     8.83
12  Swiss                    -       7.70     7.70       -        7.70     7.70
13  USA                      -       11.00    11.00      -       36.67    36.67
14  France                   -       2.60     2.60
15  Ireland                  -       0.50     0.50
16  CEI                      -       0.50     0.50
17  Poland                   -         -        -                 1.71     1.71
18  Other donors'                                                6.56      6.56
19  EPBiH Intemal Funds   13.10               13.10    11.19       -       11.19
20  EPM Internal Funds      1.80               1.80     0.63               0.63
21   EPRS Internal Funds   0.10        -       0.10     2.25               2.25
22  Financing gap            -       47.72    47.72
TOTAL        I 15.00    181.35   196.35    14.07    168.36   182.43
Other donors are EDF, ECHO, WESCO, Italy, IFOR, CARITAS



- 22 -
TABLE 9
Economic Costs and Benefits
(US$million)
l ____________   Costs    _               Benefits
Year    Investment      O&M           Fuel       Revenue   Net Benefits
1996       24.5          0.7          1.1          15         -11.4
1997       65.3          2.7          2.0          22         -48.0
1998       46.2          4.1          5.3          56          0.4
1999                     4.1          5.3          49         39.7
2000                     4.1          5.8          61          51.1
2001                     4.1          5.8          61          51.1
2002                     4.1          5.8          61          51.1
2003                     4.1          5.8          61          51.1
2004                     4.1          5.8          61          51.1
2005                     4.1          5.8          61          51.1
2006                     4.1          5.8          61          51.1
2007                     4.1           0           34          29.9
2008                     4.1           0           34          29.9
2009                     4.1           0           34          29.9
2010                     4.1           0           34          29.9
2011                     4.1           0           34          29.9
2012                     4.1           0           34          29.9
_  IRR=             48%
Investments: Emergency Recovery Project ($6 million for the power component)
plus the Project (EPBiH and the Federal coal mines only), 1996 prices.
O&M: 3% of cumulated investments per year.
Fuel cost: incremental coal mine operating cost (US$0.01/kWh), and
incremental thermal power generation of 113 GWh, 196 GWh, 527 GWh, 527 GWh
from 1996 to 1999 respectively and 580 GWh per year from 2000 to 2006.
Revenue: Average tariff of US$0.054/kWh in 1996, US$0.058 in 1997, US$0.07
in 1998 and thereafter, multiplied by incremental sales equal to incremental
generation of 407 GWh, 539 GWh, 962 GWh, 962 GWh and 1192 GWh attributable
to the Project in the years 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000 and after respectively less
transmission and distribution losses of 29% in 1996 and 1997 and 17% thereafter.
Revenue falls after 2006 due to the closure of the thermal power units
rehabilitated under the Project.



- 23 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Present   Original    Revised         Description of Covenant           Comments
Agreement  Section    Type    Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
Credit      3.01 (b)  3         C                                Subsidiary loan agreement between
the Borrower and EPBiH, and
subsidiary loan agreement between
the Borrower and RUT
3.05     12        CP                               To undertake sector restructuring   The coal study was not
studies for the coal mining and  done due to failure to find
electric power sectors, and an  financing. The tariff study
electric power tariff study    was completed.
Project     2.06      S         C                                EPBiH to establish and maintain a
(EPBiH)                                                          Project Implementation Unit until
completion of the project
2.07     6         C                                EPBiH to carry out the agreed
Environmental Action Plan
2.08     10        C                                EPBiH to enter into a contract with
RUT for the supply of coal to the
Tuzla power plant
4.01 (a)  I        C                                EPBiH to maintain records and
accounts
4.01 (b)  I        C                                EPBiH to have records, accounts
and financial statements for each
fiscal year audited
4.02 (a)  2        C                                EPBiH to comply with the targets
for revenue collections as
percentage of cash operating
expenses
Project     2.06     5          C                                RUT to appoint, until completion
(RUT)                                                            of the project, a qualified project
manager to supervise the coal
mining component
2.07     10        C                                RTU to use the proceeds of the
Credit exclusively for specifically
designated mines to obtain the
necessary quality of coal for the
Tuzla power plant, and enter into a
contract with EPBiH for the supply
of coal
4.01 (a)  I        C                                RUT to maintain records and
accounts
4.01 (b)  I        C                                RUT to have records, accounts   Done with delay due to late
and financial statements audited    appointment of a qualified
auditor



- 24 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                   Revised                     Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks   US$'000         Weeks      US$'000           Weeks    US$'000
Preparation to Appraisal     1.7       10.9         n.a.        n.a.             1.7       10.9
Appraisal                   35.6       93.6         n.a         n.a.            35.6       93.6
Negotiations through Board    12.0     40.4         n.a.        n.a.            12.0       40.4
approval
Supervision                74.7      264.4          n.a.        n.a.            67.3      240.1
Completion                  15.0      53.1          n.a.        n.a.            15.1      52.3
Total              139.0       42.4          n.a.       n.a.            131.7     437.3
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Ratiu2      Types of
Stage of project cycle    Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.    Developm. Problems 3
Year   Persons  Field                      status      objectives
Through Appraisal        01/96    2       10      FA, PE
Appraisal through Board   06/96    6      28      FA, PE, ME, EE,
approval                                          ES, LC
Supervision 1            06/96    4       8       FA, PE, ME, LC  S            S
Supervision II           09/96    4       11      FA, PE, ME, EE  S            S            F
Supervision III          03/97    2       7       FA, PE           S           S
Supervision IV           06/97    3       7       PE, ME, ES       S           S
Supervision V            10/97    3       7       PE, ME, FA       S           S
Supervision VI           06/98    2       15      PE, FA           S           S            F
Supervision VII          11/98    3       8       PE, ME, FA       S           S            F
Completion
Total                      29      101
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
FA=Financial Analyst              S=Satisfactory                   F=financial
PE=Power Engineer
ME=Mining Engineer
EE=Energy Economist
ES=Environmental Specilist
LC=Legal Council



- 25 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CREDIT NO.2903-BOS
APPENDIX B
OPERATIONAL PLAN
Planned Actions to Ensure Project Sustainability
* Maintain operational availability of the rehabilitated facilities.
* Improvement in power supply by continuing the rehabilitation of the generation, transmission and
distribution facilities.
* Support the institutional improvements and strengthen the financial position.
* Improve operational performance.
Maintenance of Rehabilitated Facilities
* Within the framework of annual business plan adequate budgetary allocations to meet operation and
maintenance costs will be made to ensure effective operation and timely maintenance of
rehabilitated facilities based on the recommendations of the equipment manufacturers, and the
internal regulation and operational instructions.
* For the maintenance of the equipment and devices qualified staff, spare parts, necessary level of
tools, instruments and vehicles will be provided.
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of Power Facilities
Internally generated funds will be provided, and multi- and bilateral funds will be secured to:
e continue rehabilitation of Jablanica hydro power plant, Kakanj and Tuzla thermal power plant;
e continue rehabilitation of inter-entity transmission lines and associated substations with the aim to
improve inter-entity electricity exchanges and rational use of available generation capacities;
* continue rehabilitation of the war-damaged distribution networks to enable restoring of the industrial
production and the return of refugees and displaced persons; and
* provide necessary equipment and spare parts for the selected coal mines to support coal production
necessary for the thermal power plants.
Institutional Building and Financial Improvement
* Support establishment and operation of the Joint Power Coordination Center and take appropriate
measures to achieve safe, secure and economic operation of a technically integrated power system of
BiH.
*  Support coal sector restructuring study and its implementation.
* Organize training for all management levels, encompassing organization modernization, investment
optimization, operational cost control and monitoring, to facilitate the introduction of modern power



- 26 -
utility management practices, and to transform the "government department" type of operation to that
of a commercial company.
* Exchange electricity between Elektroprivredas based on clear rules and transparent procedures.
* Improving electricity tariff levels and structures by gradually raising household rates towards the
economic level in accordance with the financial requirements of the company and as ability of
households to pay increase.
* Institute billing and collection systems resulting in revenue collection (as a percentage of their
respective total cash operating expenses) in the years 1999 and 2000 respectively, of: 145% and
165%.
* Reduce total distribution losses to 12% in 2000.
Monitoring Indicators for Improvement of Future Operation
The following indicators will be used to measure the operational performance:
* Unsatisfied demand (kWh)
* Government subsidies
* Electricity generation (GWh)
*  Electricity sales (GWh)
* Losses in transmission (% of net generation)
* Losses in distribution (% of electricity entering distribution)
* Available electrical generating capacity (MW)
* Net income
* Revenue collection relative to amount billed
* Revenue collection relative to cash operating costs
*  Average electricity revenue per kWh
* Total quantity of electricity (kWh) exchanged between the Elektroprivredas
* Dust emissions (milligrams per normal cubic meter) for Tuzla and Kakanj thermal power plants
 Ambient air quality (micrograms per normal cubic meter) in the vacinity of the ash yard at the Tuzla
and Kakanj thermal power plants
* Production cost of coal (KM/GJ)
Richard E. Hamilton/Yolanda L. Gedse
P:\BOSNIA\ENERGY\EMELEC.POW\71CR\PI ICRI .DOC
06/19/99 11:07AM



Appendix A
Page 1 of 6
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Supervision Mission
(November 12, 1998)
Aide Memoire
I.    A mission consisting of Messrs. Weigong Cao, Heinz Hendniks, and Ms. Anna
Bjerde carried out the supervision for the referenced project during their visit to Bosnia
and Herzegovina from November 3 to 10, 1998. The mission held discussions with
officials of Elektroprivreda Bosnia and Herzegovina (EPBiH), Tuzla Coal Mines (RUT)
and Central Bosnia Coal Mines (RUSB). The mission wishes to express its appreciation
for the support and cooperation it received from EPBiH, RUT and RUSB. This Aide
Memoire summarizes the mission's findings. All recommendations and conclusions of
the mission are subject to confirmation by IDA's management.
Project Implementation Status
2. IDAfinanced power components. As of October 31,1998, all contracts (a total of 34
contracts) for EPBiH with a total value of US$ 29.28 million financed by IDA have been
signed, of which 97 % has been completed. Only one last contract for Substation
Protection has not been completed, which will be completed by end of 1998. The
electricity generation of the rehabilitated facilities was increased from 1,465 GWh in
1995 to 2,766 GWh in 1998 (increase of about 89%). Total disbursement as of October
31, 1998 was US$28.5 million (about 97% of the IDA allocation for electricity). The
status of implementation is as follows:
(a) Glabovica hydro power plant (2x57 MW) was rehabilitated and recommissioned in
December 1996. After rehabilitation the output of the plant increased from 113 MW to
117 MW with an additional annual generation of 11.7 GWh. Since then it has been
operating nornally and generated a total of 804 GWh of electricity.
(b) Tuzla thermal power plant Unit No.3 (100 MW) was re& abilitated and
recommissiond in December 1997. Since then it has been operating 5,600 hours-annually
and has already generated a total of 288 GWh of electricity and 136 GWh of heat
energy.
(c) Rehabilitation of transmission substations: Twenty six 110 kV substations and eight
220 kV substations have been rehabilitated. A total of 1,600 MVA transmission capacity
has been increased.
(d) Spare parts: The spare parts, necessary for maintaining operation of 32 MW
cogeneration units in Tuzla and Kakanj Thermal Power Plant for another 2-3 years before
full rehabilitation, were provided.



Appendix A
Page 2 of 6
(e) Engineering and project management: Most of IDA financed or managed engineering
services have been completed. The remaining engineering services for project
supervision and project management activities will be continued until full completion of
the project.
3. IDA financed coal components. RUT - US$ 5.0 million IDA Credit for Banovici,
Dubrave and Sikulje surface mines as well as for Mramor underground mine: RUT has
signed 32 contracts with a total value of about US$ 5.26 million. The last delivery was
completed in April 1998. Installation was completed in May 1998. All equipment
procured and installed under the Project is now operational. The credit funds allocated to
RUT and the overdrawn have been fully disbursed. During the first 9 months of 1998, the
project mines have been producing at a rate of 1.9 million tons per year, or 39 % higher
than in 1997 and 97 % higher than in 1996. Coal supply to the Tuzla power plant has
been fully met, at a rate significantly higher than estimated at appraisal.
4. IDA managed Trust Fund Components:
The status of implementation is as follows:
(a) Japanese Grant. (i) For Kakanj Power Plant: A totaI of 13 contracts with a
value of USS5.04 million have been signed, of which 9 contracts with a total value of
US$2.7 million have been completed. As of October 31, 1998 US$3.1 million has been
disbursed. The last delivery for Waste Water Filtration Devices will be completed by the
end of February 1998. The closing date of the Japanese Grant has been extended to
March 31, 1999 to cover this last contract. (ii) For RUSB: RUSB has signed 10 contracts~
with a total value of US$2.1 million for rehabilitation of Breza underground mine and
Vrtliste surface mine. The last delivery was completed in September 1998. Installation
was completed in October 1998. All equipment procured and installed under the Project
is now operational. The grant funds allocated to RUSB have been fully disbursed. During
the first 9 months of 1998, the project mines have been producing at a rate of 0.8 million
tons per year, or 43 % higher than in 1997 and 85 % higher than in 1996. Coal supply to
the Kakanj power plant has been fully met, at a rate significantly higher than estimated at
appraisal. (iii) For Glamoc Distribution Network (Elektroprivreda Mosta-EPM) : All 8
contracts with a total value of US$2.55 million have been signed. All equipment has
been delivered and installed. Rehabilitation of Glamoc Distribution Network was
completed in August 1998. About 1,500 resettled households benefit from this. The Grant
for Glarnoc Distribution Network will be fully disbursed by end of 1998.
(b)   Dutch Grant. The Dutch Grant of US$4.41 million supports the procurement of
maintenance vehicles for EPBiH. All 13 contracts, with a total value of US$4.39 million
equivalent, have been signed. 77% of various maintenance vehicles has been delivered
and are being used for maintenance of generation, transmission and distribution facilities.
It is expected that the full delivery of vehicles will be completed by mid-December 1998.



Appendix A
Page 3 of 6
5. Components finaznced by other donors.   The status of implementation, activities
completed or plans to complete the remaining activities for the various components are
described below:
Activities completed
(a) Transmission lines: About 160 km of 220 kV lines, and about 540 km of 110 kV
transmission lines, financed by EU, UK, Japan and Netherlands, have been rehabilitated
under this project. The recommissioning of these lines significantly improved the
availability and reliability of power supply for Sarajevo, Tuzla, Zenica, Mostar, Gorazde,
Foca, Banja Luka, Bihac and their environs. The rehabilitation of the 220 kV trans-
country transmission network from Trebinje, via Mostar, Jablanica, Kakanj to Jajce has
provided important high voltage transmission links for further strengthening the power
interchange between entities.
(b) Ugljevik thermal power plant: First phase rehabilitation of the power plant and
associated coal mine, financed by UK, has been completed. The 300 MW unit has been
recommissioned, and is sending power to Banja Luka and other areas.
(c) Mostar hydro power plant: For more than one year after the starting of the project,
rehabilitation of Mostar hydropower plant could not proceed due to disagreement
between EPBiH and EPM on ownership and management of the plant. In 1997 EPM
using its own financial resources' and foreign contractor's assistance to rehabilitate the
damaged plant. The rehabilitation work has been completed and the plant was
commissioned at the end of 1997.
(d) Jajce hydro power plant: Replacement of the regulator for turbine/generator and
mechanical auxiliary equipment, financed by Austrian Govemment, has been 95%
completed. Full completion is expected at the end of 1998.
(e) Distribution: About 2,200 km of 35, 10(20)/0.4 kV distribution lines and 1,100
substations of 35/10 kV and 10(20)/0.4 kV, financed by EU, UK, USA, Japan, Norway
and other donors, were restored and rehabilitated in most urgent needed areas of Sarajevo,
Tuzla, Zenica, Mostar, Bihac, Maglaj, Gorazde, Forca, Banja Luka, Doboj, Bejeljina,
Glamoc, and Jajca.
Ongoing Activities
(a) Swiss GrantfiinancedJablanjca hydro power plant. As of July 1998 all seven
contracts, including turbine runner, turbine intake gate, turbine governor system, turbine
EPM claimed that it used about DM 24million of its own resources to rehabilitate the Mostar hydro
power plant, and informed the Bank that it does not want the sub-project to be included in the ICR of
the Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project.



Appendix A
Page 4 of 6
auxiliaries, unit supervisory and control system, generator, generator excitation, and 110
kV circuit breaker were signed and approved by the Swiss Government. Having started
late due to protracted technical discussions and contract negotiations, major delivery of
equipment started in September 1998. According to the revised construction schedule, all
equipment installation will be completed by March 1999. Trial operation will be
completed in April 1999. Commercial operation of the unit is scheduled for early July
1999, about 6 months behind the orig nal schedule.
(b) USAID financed Kakan?j thermal power plant: Rehabilitation of unit No. 5 (I IO
MW) was completed and recommissioned in October 1998. Rehabilitation of Unit No.6,
due to late delivery of electrostatic precipitator, will be completed and recommissioned in
May 1999.
(c) Belgian Governmentfinanced power transformers:    Signing of the contracts for
supply of one 220 and four 110 kV power transformers were delayed by approval of both
Government Authorities for administrative reasons (opening of LC). The equipment is
expected to be delivered by July 1999. Installation of the equipment at Gradacac,
Sarajevo and Bihac substations will be completed by September 1999.
(d) EBRD financed Una hydro power plant rehabilitation: In late 1997 EBRD replaced
the Communication and Control component under the project with the Rehabilitation of
Una hydro power plant (4x 1.5 MW) in Bihac area. Due to late inclusion of the
component, the procurement activities are expected to be completed by January I999-
The completion of the rehabilitation is scheduled for end of 2000.
Disbursements
6.    The IDA funding for this project includes de facto repayment of a Project Start-up
Advance (PSA), which was advanced from the earlier approved Emergency District
Heating Reconstruction Project. There was difficulty in processing the transfers and
adjustments between the two projects. In addition, there were overdrawing on both the
district heating and coal components under the project. All these complications caused
confusion and delay in project disbursements, particularly since March 1998. With the
Ministry of the Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the Bank's Loan
Department's assistance the transfers/adjustments and issue of overdrawns were finally
resolved during this mission. The project closing date would be December 31, 1998. The
project is scheduled to close on time. The undisbursed balance is less than US$1 million
(for eligible expenditures incurred). According to Credit Agreement, a three month grace
period (up to end March 1999) was granted to continue disbursing the Credit. It is
expected that the Credit for power and coal components will be fully disbursed by then.
Revised Project Cost
7.    The latest revised total project cost estimate is US$183.09 equivalent, (compared
with appraisal estimate of USS196.35 equivalent), comprising US$14.07 million



Appendix A
Page 5 of 6
equivalent local costs (compared with appraisal estimate of US$15.85 million
equivalent) and US$169.02 million equivalent foreign costs (compared with appraisal
estimate of US$180.50 equivalent).
Financial Aspects
EPBiH
8. The mission reviewed the financial performance of the enterprise with the EPBiH
financial management and was pleased to find that the collection performance is
improving. In 1997, EPBiH collected almost 80% of billings, including arrears from
1996. Collection currently stands at about 86% and is expected to improve to just above
90% by year end. EPBiH's goal is to collect 95% of billings by the end of 1999 and
remain at that level thereafter. Accounts receivable, which are currently about US$22
million, are equivelent to approximately 40 days of estimated 1998 billings.
9. Revenue collections as a percentage of cash operating expenses 2 is improving and
EPBiH is in compliance with the covenanted targets under the project as shown below:
1996                 1997              1998
Target              60%                  90%               100%
Actual              82%                  101%              107%
10.   Audit reports. An extemal audit was carried out by Coopers and Lybrand for
1997. Primarily due to lack of clarity on the allocation of assets and liabilities between
the three Elektroprivredas, the auditors were unable to express an opinion on the accuracy
of the financial inforrnation in EPBiH's financial statements. The mission requested that
EPBiH comrnmunicate as soon as possible to the Bank how it will address the issues
identified as the reasons for the highly qualified 1997 audit and stressed the importance to
resolve the issues highlighted to avoid a similar result in the 1998 audit.
RUT
11.   Due to the unusual inclusion of an entity audit for RUT in the absence of prior
financial analysis of the company, timely appointment of an auditor in compliance with
Section 4.01 of the Project Agreement was overlooked. When reminded by the Bank,
RUT engaged a qualified independent auditor (Deloitte & Touche). The retroactive audit
for 1996 and 1997 is presently on-going. It is expected that the audit report will be
submitted to the Bank for review by end of 1998.
2 Calculated as total revenue collected (including arrear payments) divided by total cash operating
expenses.



Appendix A
Page 6 of 6
Preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
12.   A draft outline of evaluation report prepared by EPBiH was made available to the
mission for comments. It appears that the draft outline does not include all project related
information and a plan for the project's fuiture operation. To ensure project continued
operation, the mission recommend EPBiH and RUJT to start as soon as possible preparing
their plan of future operation. The plan for the project's future operation should set out
the actions that will be taken by EPBiH and RUT to ensure that the sub-projects continue
to yield the planned benefits. Taking into account the multi-components and multi-donors
nature of the project, and several project component has not been fully completed, EPBiH
needs time to collect the relevant information and data to prepare the final evaluation
report and the future operation plan. It is agreed that EPBiH and RUT will submit their
Contribution to ICR on March 15, 1999.
13.   The following schedule was agreed with EPBiH for the preparation of the ICR:
March 15, 1999          Draft Contribution to ICR to be send by EPBiH
to the Bank (the summary of the report will be attached
unedited to the final ICR).
March 31, 1999          Draft ICR to be sent by the Bank to EPBiH and RUT
for comments.
April 30, 1999          EPBiH and RUT to forward their comments, if
any, on the draft ICR to the Bank.
June 15, 1999           The ICR will be finalized and printed by the Bank.
Copies will be forwarded to relevant government agencies
of Bosnia and Herzegovina, EPBiH and RUT



Appendix B
Page 1 of 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CREDIT NO.2903-BOS
APPENDIX B
OPERATIONAL PLAN
Planned Actions to Ensure Project Sustainability
*  Maintain operational availability of the rehabilitated facilities.
*  Improvement in power supply by continuing the rehabilitation of the generation, transmission and
distribution facilities.
*  Support the institutional improvements and strengthen the financial position.
*  Improve operational performance.
Maintenance of Rehabilitated Facilities
*  Within the framework of annual business plan adequate budgetary allocations to meet operation and
maintenance costs will be made to ensure effective operation and timely maintenance of
rehabilitated facilities based on the recommendations of the equipment manufacturers, and the
internal regulation and operational instructions.
*  For the maintenance of the equipment and devices qualified staff, spare parts, necessary level of
tools, instruments and vehicles will be provided.
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of Power Facilities
Internally generated funds will be provided, and multi- and bilateral funds will be secured to:
*  continue rehabilitation of Jablanica hydro power plant, Kakanj and Tuzla thermal power plant;
*  continue rehabilitation of inter-entity transmission lines and associated substations with the aim to
improve inter-entity electricity exchanges and rational use of available generation capacities;
*  continue rehabilitation of the war-damaged distribution networks to enable restoring of the industrial
production and the return of refugees and displaced persons; and
*  provide necessary equipment and spare parts for the selected coal mines to support coal production
necessary for the thermal power plants.
Institutional Building and Financial Improvement
*  Support establishment and operation of the Joint Power Coordination Center and take appropriate
measures to achieve safe, secure and economic operation of a technically integrated power system of
BiH.
*  Support coal sector restructuring study and its implementation.
* Organize training for all management levels, encompassing organization modernization, investment
optimization, operational cost control and monitoring, to facilitate the introduction of modern power



Appendix s
Page 2 of 2
utility management practices, and to transform the "government department" type of operation to that
of a commercial company.
* Exchange electricity between Elektroprivredas based on clear rules and transparent procedures.
*  Improving electricity tariff levels and structures by gradually raising household rates towards the
economic level in accordance with the financial requirements of the company and as ability of
households to pay increase.
* Institute billing and collection systems resulting in revenue collection (as a percentage of their
respective total cash operating expenses) in the years 1999 and 2000 respectively, of: 145% and
165%.
* Reduce total distribution losses to 12% in 2000.
Monitoring Indicators for Improvement of Future Operation
The following indicators will be used to measure the operational performance:
* Unsatisfied demand (kWh)
* Government subsidies
* Electricity generation (GWh)
* Electricity sales (GWh)
i Losses in transmission (% of net generation)
e Losses in distribution (% of electricity entering distribution)
* Available electrical generating capacity (MW)
* Net income
* Revenue collection relative to amount billed
* Revenue collection relative to cash operating costs
* Average electricity revenue per kWh
* Total quantity of electricity (kWh) exchanged between the Elektroprivredas
* Dust emissions (milligrams per normal cubic meter) for Tuzla and Kakanj thermal power plants
 Ambient air quality (micrograms per normal cubic meter) in the vacinity of the ash yard at the Tuzla
and Kakanj thermal power plants
* Production cost of coal (KM/GJ)



Appendix C
Page 1 of 5
* ~             Public Enterprise                                 Project Implementation Unit
Elektroprivreda of Bosnia and Herzegovina        fax: +387 71 525 236
Vilsonavo ietalite 20                           fax: +387 71 653 004
BIH-71000 Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina       sat fax: +387 71 655 068
tel: +387 71 652 056
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CREDIT BOS 2903
APPENDIX C
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
(EXTRACT)
May, 1999



Appendix C
Page 2 of 5
Elektroprivreda of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Project Implementation Unit
A. PRE-WAR SITUATION
1.    In 1990 BiH produced 13,090 Gigawatt hour (GWb) of electricity from generating plants located
on its territory. Electricity consumption was 11,181 GWh. The systemn comprised 13 hydro power plants
with a total capacity of 2,034 Megawatt (MW) and an average output of 6,992 GWh/year, and 12 thennal
power plants with a total capacity of 1,957 MW and an output of 10,675 GWh in 1990. The thennal power
plants were coal and lignite fired, with the fuel coming from mines within BiH.
Elektroprivreda of Bosnia and Herzegovina (EPBiH) was responsible for operating its own system and
meeting local demand and power exchanges with neighboring countries were controlled by JUGEL.
The electric power  system  was consisted of generation, transmission and. distribution -facilities
interconnected and operated at 400, 220, 110, 35, 20 10 and 0.4 kV voltage levels. Transmission voltages
are 110 kV and higher; distribution voltages are 35 kV and lower. Total length of the transmission lines
was about 5,400 hn and of the distribution lines 92,000 km. Transmission and distribution transfonner
capacity was about 15,300 MVA.The backbone of the interconnected transmission system was a 400 kV
network (with a transmission line length of about 8()0 kin, and with 8 substations 400 kV), which was
interconnected with Croatia, Montenegro and Serbia. By the 400 kV network the power system of BiH was
interconnected with SUDEL and UCPTE.
Map 1 illustrates the pre-war situation of the electric power system.
B. PRE-PROJECT SITUATION
2.     War damages to the BiH power system, started in 1991 with destruction of transmnission facilities
and interconnection lines to the neighboring countries and UCPTE and thereafter spread, starting in April
1992, to large parts of the generation, transmission and distribution system causing total damages in a value
of US$ 1,340 mill. in various parts of the system, as of the end of 1995:
C Generation:       Installed capacities in the Federation area were 2,574 MW  and 49% of the
capacities were damnaged or out of operation;
*  Transmnission:   Over 60% of the transmnission network and communication and control system
was daamaged or destroyed;
*  Distribution:    The distribution network of EPBiH was largely distroyed.
Because of limited generation, transmission and distribution possibilities, the monthly electricity
consumption's was limited to 100 kWh/lhousehold and the areas of Gornade and tJna-Sana Canton were
totally cut-off from the electricity supply.
The Map 2 illustrates situation of the power system as of end of 1995.
C. THE PROJEC'T OBJECTIVES AND EVALUATION
3.     The primary project objective was to make emergency reconstruction of the power system in
order to improve total level and reliability of the electricity service by the EP BiH and to reduce
power outages and black - outs of the systemi by strengthening, rehabilitation and repairs and
maintenance of most critical existing electric power facilities. The Project includes the reconstruction,
rehabilitation, overhaul and miaintenance of thie most urgent necessary power plants, transmission and
distribution facilities by providing the equipment. mzaterial, spare parts and services. The Projects
start is Septemiber 20,1996 and its comapletion is December 31,1999.
ICR-Extract-March, 1999                                                                   2



Appendix C
Elektroprivreda of Bosnia and Herzegovina                         Page 3 of 5
Project Implementation Unit
4.    At the end of 1998, after Project completion the stated power plants, transmission and
distribution facilities are in operating condition enabling the delivery of sufficient quantities of
electricity and interconnection of large consuming centers with generation facilities, although the
problemns are not fully solved. The electric power consumption for economic recovery of the country
are met, and electric power system is connected within BiH, with neighboring power systems and
with UCPTE. The outcome of the project is satisfactory.
The Map 3 illustrates situation of the power system as of end of 1998.
D. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
5.    Within the PE EP BiH the Project implementation unit PIU was established. It was supported
by the experts fromn the management and entities for generation, transmission and distribution of the
EP BiH and also by related departments for the procurement, legal affairs,. financing, budgeting,
accounting, cost control, scheduling, technical support, personal support, and by foreign and local
consulting companies.
The P1U has completely implemented the IDA financed projects and also the projects administrated
by the WB and the projects financed by the EBRD loan.
The installation of the large equipment in the generation facilities was made by the suppliers on the
"turn key" basic with the engagement of the local companies as subcontractors wherever it was
acceptable. The design replacement and installation of generation, transmission and distribution
equipment was perfonned by appropriate local entities of EP BiH with their maintenance personnel
having great experience in such works.
The implementation of the grant funds was perfonned by authorized donors agencies with close
cooperation of the PIU in preparation of the teclnical specifications, evaluation reports, coordination
in follow-up, reporting and project management. In this project too, the installation of the equipment
were perfonned by the EP BiH's personnel.
All above means that PIU was perfonning complex planing, coordination, managing and follow - up
of all projects financed by credit and grant funds realized under the Power I (EEPRP) project for the
needs of EP BiH.
E. OPERATION EXPERIENCE
6.    The finally total project cost estimate is US$ 185,49 equivalent (compared with appraisal
estimate of US$ 196,35 equivalent), comprising US$ 14,07 million equivalent local costs (compared
with appraisal estimate of LJS$ 15,00 million equivalent) and US$ 171,42  million equivalent foreign
costs (compared with appraisal estimate of US$ 181,35 equivalent).
The part of Project for EPBiH are realized in the amount of US$ 134.62 equivalent,
(compared with appraisal estimate of US$ 144,38 equivalent), comprising US$ 11,19 million
equivalent local costs (compared with appraisal estimate of US$ 13,10 million equivalent)
and US$ 123.43 million equivalent foreign costs (compared with appraisal estimate of US$
105,28 equivalent).
7.    The scheduled objectives for each project component are achieved, mostly within the
schedules and budget. The achievement of the project objectives are summarized as follows:
Totally rehabilitated capacities in TPP-a and HPPs are 434 MW: (HPP Grabovica 2x57; TPP
Tuzla - 1xl00 MW and TPP Kakanj - 2xl 10 MW).
ICR-Extract-March, 1999



Appendix C
Biektropnvreda of Bosnia and Herzegovina                             Page 4 of 5
Project Implementation Unit
*  Totally 474,4 kn of the transmnission lines were rehabilitated: (83 kn of 400 kV OHLs, 159,6 km
of 220 kV OHLs and 231,8 kn of 110 kV OHLs; totally 33 substations were totally or partially
rehabilitated (26 in I 10/x kV, 5 in 220/x kV and 2 in 400lx kV), having totally installed capacity
of 1572 MVA (472 MVA in SS I 10ix kV, 300 MVA in SS 220/x kV, 800 MVA in SS 400/x
kV);
*  580 kn of 35,10(20)0,4 distribution lines; 86 MVA in SSs 35/x kV system and 102 MVA in SSs
20(10)/0.4 kV in were restored and rehabilitated.
Thanks to timely (parallel) rebabilitation of the adjacent coal mines Dubrave, gikulje, Banovici and
Mramor from the RUT for TPP Tuzla, and Vrtliste and Breza from  RUSB for the TPP Kakanj
providing sufficient coal for the TPP Kakanj and TPP Tuzla. This enabled continuos operation of the
rehabilitated Units in TPP Tuzla and TPP Kakanj.
The increase of generation in the TPPs has influenced on the faster increase of the producti6n in the
coal mines and include domestic finns in thie project realization enabled industry production
restarting and increased employment too. The collection rate increase, together with partial electricity
tariffs adjustrnent enabled to achieve the total revenue increase of 56% (annual average) relative to
1995.
8.     The involvement into Project of numerous donor-countries has significantly contributed to
the implementation effectiveness of the Project. This is particularly attributed by US Agency USAID
by its financing the rehabilitation of the Unit 5 and 6 (2xI 10 MW) in the TPP Kakanj and of
distribution network, with an excellent cooperation with the PIL EP BiH and significant effects at
site. In the contrary, there were problemls in the implementation of the EC funded projects hawing
significant delivery delays and being not hannonized with the rehabilitation needs , and the unit
prices of the equipment procured were significantly higher then the market prices. This resulted in the
realization far lower then expected and scheduled.
9.     The approved and available WBs start-up advance of US$ 3.8. mnil. from the District Heating
Project (TF 024027 BH) has really enabled for the Project to start prior than credit BOS 2903
effectiveness. This enabled significant effects in the rapid project implementation (Without this
advance the civil work season for the HPP Grahovica would for sure be lost and the works would
have been started in suTmmer 1997, with all negative consequences).
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
10.    Starting with the Emergency Reconstruction Project (ERP) and particularly with preparation
of the EEPRP, the perfonnance of the Bank is apprised as satisfaclory:
*  in the project identification
*  in the priority defining
*  in the Projects preparation assistance
*  in al phases of the project s appraisal
*  in the follow-up and supervision of each specific contract and the project as a whole
*  in realization of the leading (coordinating) position with all other donors (cofinanciers).
Somne difficulties in the implementation were due to the reconciliation of the start-up advance towards
district heating project and the problem was resolved with Bank's assistance.
ICR-Extract-March. 1999                                                                4



Appendix C
Elektroprivreda of Bosnia and Herzegovina                            Page 5 of 5
Project Implementation Unit
F. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER AND BENEFICIARY
I1.   The perfonnance of the Government of BiH and the Government of the Federation of BiH is
satisfactory. The Reconstruction and International Assistance Sector of the Council of Ministers and
of Ministry of Foreign Trade and International Relations of BiH has received all available
infonnation and received the Project Progress Reports. The full support was provided by Federal
Ministry of Energy, Mining and Industry and by Federal Prime Minister personally too.
The management of the EP BiH was giving continuos supports to the Project. Specifically significant
contribution of the EP BiHs management was in providing EP BiH own funds for the Project
(implementation including local funds for installation works, procurement of local goods and
materials with a total value of US$ 11.19 mill.). This all means that the perfonnance of the
Beneficiary and EP BiH, could be considered as satisfactory.
G. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
12.   One of the lessons learned from this Project- that many difficulties can arise if the financing
is not covered for the project. The delays in filling up the financial gaps and the delay in the
implementation of some bilateral grants could influence the dead-line for the projects completion
(December 31,1998).
Furthennore it was proven that an close cooperation between PIl EPBiH and implementation
agencies of the donors is essential in order to fully identify priority needs of EPBiH. This is
achievable by the engagement of local experts.
Also, the strong and well staffed PIlJ can effectively implement great number of the contract and to
perform high quality cooperation with the WB and other cofinansiers. The experience gained with
local consultants, suppliers and/or contractors were positive and should be used whenever it is
consistent with the economy and effectively requirements. This is, between others, the positive push
to the national economy.
Realization of the EEPRP, through numerous contacts with international institutions, with the WB at
the first place, with donor-countries and world reputable equipment suppliers, enabled to the
einployees in EPBiH to collect new infonnation, and their exchange, on the latest technological
development and to be prepared the marketing economy philosoplhy as sole condition for profit
making.
Finally, thanks to excellent cooperation with the WB, the PIl EPBiH has acquired additional
knowledge and experiences making it capable for the implementation of the new projects. The results
and experience gained contributed to establish today's and future business policy of the EPBiH: "all
the investments realized within EP BIH, out of the WBs project, hy its own and/or foreign funds, in
all stages, and particularly in the procurement, shall follow  applicable WBs procedures and
regulations", whenever applicable.
ICR-Extract-Marct, 1999



IBRD 27763
16                 ..           17'                             1B 
Medu,i6      -dS0%
,/   Mraclin    f       X       oBosanska                        S 3rad      DG/,
L.~~~~~~~~~B DuooiDva           S bica                                                      ltaa,          >
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7N. '-. VSria<< poo I uo                     O l  \d 
Bo- i     i                 Gao             )Xuon         l sxoNt                                    lH;_3  t    g4:
qt.k   c  yv Si _
;   J   >  -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Urin        siana          S r 3 
~4°  - ~~  itet 2-iP  j<z>\ / bii  if  ,5  nkVi 
--- t_                 p$Bsec 1,          TP UlEv,ik ,.
A, d r i a t; c  S e .~ia                                                      G '-- I, ca, i*>l,,   4#f:' Pl^Si ed¢/    'Is - zi<   
, '  ,'/f i6- MO          'cbt V'j I./
BOSNIA  A,bID  HERZEGrOVIS                     1 / §/     <                   9o or Vc O.
EMERGENCY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P,TZa1 ELETRI                     c,9t  ^     H o
Kulen   IN                              HPPOEN  BoAS^ac9  lesl  g' .;4XL   ;'
400kv   :    ' t . r /{',"j!§,,0,',.X;z  , GERMAP,Y\Du>rc-,e-[    
42-~~~~~~~~~~Oc.    Kli 



