Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF033829
Norwegian Grant Agreement
(Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the Kingdom of Norway
Dated July 12, 1996
TF033829
NORWEGIAN GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 12, 1996, between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the Recipient) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting as Administrator 
(the Administrator) of grant funds provided by the KINGDOM OF NORWAY (Norway).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to an agreement dated March 9, 1994, between Norway and 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Association, 
Norway has requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association 
have agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available by Norway for the 
financing of certain programs and projects supported by the Bank and the Association, 
as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of such agreement; and
WHEREAS (B) Norway has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of 
said grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical 
assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the 
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
Page  2
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (12), 
and (13), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.05;
(v)
Article V; 
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g) and (h), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and  9.08;
(ix)
Article X; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Association," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Section 6.02 (e) thereof, means the International 
Development Association acting as Administrator of the Grant 
pursuant to the letter agreement between Japan and the Bank and 
the Association referred to in Recital (A) of this Agreement, 
except that in Section 6.02, the term "Association" shall also 
include the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Development Credit Agreement," wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Credit," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Grant;
(v)
the term "Credit Account," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account, an account opened by the 
Administrator on its books in the name of the Recipient to which 
the amount of the Grant is credited;
(vi)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Technical Assistance described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; 
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in dollars; provided, 
however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant have been paid or are payable in another currency, the Administrator 
shall, at the request of the Recipient, purchase such currency with the 
proceeds of such withdrawal."; and
(viii)the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made:  (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Page  3
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the terms 
"Norwegian Kroner" and "NOK" mean the currency of the Kingdom of Norway.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an 
amount of eight million four hundred thousand Norwegian Kroner (NOK 8,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may 
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator, 
for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect 
of the reasonable cost of carrying out the Technical Assistance and to be financed out 
of the Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish.  The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall carry out the Technical Assistance through 
Elektroprivreda Bosne i Hercegovina (EPBiH) with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Technical Assistance. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
consultants’ services required for the Technical Assistance and to be financed out of 
the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Technical Assistance of the 
departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Technical 
Assistance or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;   
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
Page  4
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties hereto.
Section 4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
The Ministry of Finance
Mehmeda Spahe 5
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
           INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
           Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
       64145 (WUI) or
       82987 (FTCC)  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Mirsad Kikanovic
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  5
   as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant to the Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in such Category:
                   Amount of the
                  Grant Allocated            % of
                   (Expressed
            Expenditures
Category
in NOK)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultant Services
  8,400,000
100%
TOTAL
  8,400,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
3.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for contracts not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent for consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for individual 
consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Technical Assistance
The objective of the Technical Assistance is to assist the Recipient in 
preparing and implementing the electric power generation, transmission and substations 
component of the proposed Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project of the 
Recipient.
The Technical Assistance would include:
1.
assistance to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in carrying out procurement;
2.
assistance in reviewing specifications for all bidding documents;
3.
assistance in any clarifications requested by the prospective suppliers;
4.
assistance in bid evaluation, preparation of bid evaluation report, and contract 
negotiations;
5.
assistance in reviewing shop drawings and other detailed drawings, technical 
documents, and calculations submitted by the manufacturers of major equipment;
6.
assistance in monitoring equipment delivery and quality control;
7.
assistance in supervision of construction and implementation schedule 
monitoring;
8.
assistance in budget and cost control, and project accounting;
9.
identifying any problem areas during project implementation, indicating remedial 
action, and reporting any outstanding issues;
10.
assistance in preparation of quarterly project progress reports;
11.
assistance in organizing systematic maintenance procedures to the rehabilitated 
areas so that they will continue to be maintained at the required standard;
Page  6
12.
training of EPBiH personnel on project implementation management and maintenance 
methods and procedures; and
13.
provision of such other consulting assistance as may reasonably be required.
SCHEDULE 3
Consultants’ Services
Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Technical Assistance, the 
Recipient shall employ consultants, nationals of the Kingdom of Norway, whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Administrator. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance 
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Administrator on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). 
For complex time-based assignments, the Recipient shall employ such consultants under 
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the 
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Administrator. Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Recipient shall 
use other standard forms agreed with the Administrator. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Administrator review shall not apply to: (a) the 
terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting 
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Administrator; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above.
