                                  Document of
                               The World Bank



                                                                Report No. 26472




                         BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA


             PROJECT     PERFORMANCE      ASSESSMENT REPORT



     EMERGENCY       ELECTRIC     POWER RECONSTRUCTION   PROJECT
                               (CREDIT  2903-BOS)

        SECOND ELECTRIC        POWER RECONSTRUCTION    PROJECT
                               (CREDIT  3071-BOS)



                                  July 29,2003




Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency       Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Konvertible Marka (KM)

1997               US$l .oo             KM 1.73
1998               US$l .oo             KM 1.76
1999               US$l.OO              KM 1.84
2000               US$l .oo             KM 2.12
2001               US$l .oo             KM 2.19
2002               US$l .oo             KM 2.08



Abbreviations        and Acronyms

BiH               Bosnia and Herzegovina
EBRD              European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EMP               Environmental Management Plan
EPBiH             Electroprivreda BiH
EPHZHB            Electroprivreda Hrvatske Zajednice Herceg-Bosne
EPRS              Electroprivreda Republika Srpska
EU                European Union
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
IS0               Independent System Operator
MOP               Memorandum of the President
OED               Operations Evaluation Department
OHR               Office of the High Representative
PPAR              Project Performance Assessment Report
RS                Republika Srpska
UCPTE             Union pour la coordination de la production et transport d'electricite
ZEKC              Zajednicki Elektroenergetski Koordinacijski Centar
                  (Joint Power Coordination Center)


Fiscal Year

Government:                January l-December 31




Director-General, Operations Evaluation                :  Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
Director (Acting), Operations Evaluation Department    :  Mr. Nils Fostvedt
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation                :  Mr. Alain Barbu
Tack  Mannoer                                          .  Mr  Fernando   Manihrw

  OED Mission:          Enhancing       development       effectiveness      through     excellence     and independence            in evaluation.


About     this Report
      The Operations        Evaluation      Department     assesses the programs         and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes:     first, to ensure the integrity of the Banks          self-evaluation     process and to verify that the Banks            work is
producing     the expected      results, and second, to help develop           improved     directions,   policies, and procedures         through
the dissemination        of lessons drawn from experience.           As part of this work, OED annually           assesses about 25 percent of
the Banks       lending operations.      In selecting operations      for assessment,       preference    is given to those that are
innovative,     large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming                studies or country evaluations;          those for which
Executive     Directors or Bank management              have requested      assessments;       and those that are likely to generate
important    lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical            approaches       selected for assessment         support    larger evaluation
studies.
      A Project      Performance       Assessment       Report (PPAR)       is based on a review of the Implementation                Completion
Report (a self-evaluation         by the responsible        Bank department)        and fieldwork    conducted       by OED. To prepare
PPARs,      OED staff examine          project files and other documents,           interview   operational     staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing       country for onsite discussions          with project staff and beneficiaries.         The PPAR thereby           seeks to
validate    and augment       the information       provided   in the ICR, as well as examine           issues of special       interest to broader
OED studies.
       Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management                              approval.     Once cleared       internally,  the
PPAR is reviewed          by the responsible        Bank department       and amended        as necessary.      The completed         PPAR is then
sent to the borrower        for review; the borrowers'        comments       are attached     to the document        that is sent to the Banks
Board of Executive         Directors.    After an assessment        report has been sent to the Board,             it is disclosed    to the public.


About     the OED Rating         System
      The time-tested        evaluation      methods    used by OED are suited to the broad              range of the World Banks           work.
The methods         offer both rigor and a necessary          level of flexibility   to adapt to lending      instrument,      project design,    or
sectorai    approach.      OED evaluators        all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following                     is
the definition     and rating scale used for each evaluation              criterion   (more information      is available     on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
       Relevance       of Objectives;        The extent to which the projects          objectives    are consistent       with the country's
current development          priorities  and with current      Bank country and sectoral          assistance     strategies     and corporate
goals (expressed         in Poverty Reduction         Strategy   Papers,    Country Assistance        Strategies,     Sector Strategy       Papers
Operational       Policies).  Possible      ratings:  High, Substantial,     Modest,     Negligible.
       Efficacy:     The extent to which the projects           objectives    were achieved,       or expected      to be achieved,      taking into
account     their relative importance.         Possible   ratings:  High, Substantial,       Modest, Negligible.
       Efficiency:     The extent to which the project achieved,              or is expected     to achieve,     a return higher than the
opportunity      cost of capital and benefits         at least cost compared        to alternatives.    Possible     ratings:   High, Substantial,
Modest,      Negligible.   This rating is not generally        applied   to adjustment      operations.
       Sustainabilifyr       The resilience      to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible            ratings:    Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely,    Highly Unlikely,     Not Evaluable.
       lnsfitutional     Development          lmpactr    The extent to which a project         improves     the ability of a country       or region
to make more efficient,         equitable     and sustainable      use of its human,      financial,  and natural      resources     through:    (a)
better definition,     stability, transparency,       enforceability,    and predictability     of institutional   arrangements        and/or (b)
better alignment       of the mission       and capacity of an organization          with its mandate,      which derives from these
institutional    arrangements.        Institutional   Development      Impact includes       both intended     and unintended         effects of a
project.    Possible    ratings: High, Substantial,        Modest,    Negligible.
       Outcome:        The extent to which the projects           major relevant      objectives   were achieved,         or are expected     to be
achieved,      efficiently.  Possible    ratings:   Highly Satisfactory,      Satisfactory,    Moderately      Satisfactory,     Moderately
Unsatisfactory,       Unsatisfactory,       Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Bank     Performance:        The extent to which services          provided     by the Bank ensured        quality at entry and
supported       implementation       through    appropriate    supervision     (including   ensuring     adequate      transition   arrangements
for regular     operation    of the project).     Possible   ratings:   Highly Satisfactory,     Satisfactory,     Unsatisfactory,      Highly
Unsatisfactory.
       Borrower       Performance:        The extent to which the borrower            assumed      ownership     and responsibility       to ensure
quality of preparation        and implementation,         and complied      with covenants      and agreements,          toward the achievement
of development         objectives    and sustainability.     Possible    ratings:   Highly Satisfactory,      Satisfactory,     Unsatisfactory,
Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                 . ..
                                                                 111



Contents
Principal Ratings ......................................................................*.....*...................................V

Key Staff Responsible ..................................................................*............*........................V

Preface ................................................................*..................*........................*.................vii

Summary .*.........................................................................................................................           ix

1. Background ............................................................................................*.....................1

2. Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction                                    Project         ..................................................3

       Project Objectives ....................................................................................................3
       Project Design .........................................................................................................3
       Project Implementation ............................................................................................4
       Evaluation Ratings ...................................................................................................4
                   Overall Project Outcome.. ............................................................................4
                               Relevance of Objectives ..................................................................5
                               Efficacy.. ..........................................................................................5
                   Sustainability ................................................................................................5
                   Institutional Development Impact ................................................................6
                   Bank Performance.. ......................................................................................6
                   Borrower Performance.. ................................................................................
3. Second Electric Power Reconstruction Project                                      .........................................................7

       Project Objectives ....................................................................................................7
       Project Design .........................................................................................................7

       Project Implementation.. ..........................................................................................                      8

       Evaluation Ratings.. ...............................................................................................IO

                   Overall Project Outcome ............................................................................                       10
                               Relevance of Objectives ................................................................10
                               Efficacy.. ........................................................................................            10
                               Efficiency.. .....................................................................................10
                   Sustainability.. ............................................................................................              10
                   Institutional Development Impact.. ............................................................l 1
                   Bank and Borrower Performance.. .............................................................l                               1
4. Sectoral Issues ............................................................................................................11

       Power Sector Restructuring ...................................................................................I1
       Environmental Issues.............................................................................................12

                                                      iv


        Coal Sector Issues..................................................................................................I4
5. Findings and Lessons .................................................................................................15

Annex A: Basic Data Sheets............................................................................................17

Annex B: Borrower Comments ......................................................................................21




This report was prepared by Sunil Mathrani,      OEDST Consultant,            who assessed the projects in March
2003. The report was edited by William Hurlbut,        and Rose Gachina provided               administrative        support.

Principal           Ratings
EMERGENCYELECTRICPOWERRECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT(CR. 2903-BOS)
                                        /CR*                                ES*                                 PPAR
Outcome                              Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                     Highly Satisfactory

Sustainability                          Likely                             Likely                                Likely

Institutional                           Partial                         Substantial                           Substantial
Development       Impact

Bank     Performance              Highly Satisfactory                Highly Satisfactory                 Highly Satisfactory

Borrower                          Highly Satisfactory                Highly Satisfactory                 Highly Satisfactory
Performance


SECONDELECTRICPOWERRECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT(C~.3071-BOS)


Outcome                              Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                         Satisfactory

Sustainability                          Likely                             Likely                                Likely

Institutional                           Modest                             Modest                             Substantial
Development       Impact

Bank     Performance                 Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                         Satisfactory

Borrower                             Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                         Satisfactory


*The Implementation     Completion  Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation  by the responsible   operational  division of the Bank.
The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate       OED product that seeks to independently      verify the findings of the ICR


Key Staff Responsible
EMERGENCYELECTRICPOWERRECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT (C~.2903-BOS)

Project                                Task    Manager/Leader               Division     Chief/            Country     Director
                                                                            Sector    Director

 Appraisal                                       H. Busz                          H. Apitz                       C. Wallich

 Mid-term                                        W.Cao                           H. Razavi                      C. Poortman

 Completion                                      W.Cao                           H. Razavi                      C. Poortman


SECONDELECTRICPOWERRECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT(C~.3071-BOS)

Project                                Task Manager/Leader                  Division     Chief/            Country     Director
                                                                            Sector    Director

 Appraisal                                     R. Hamilton                       H. Razavi                      C. Poortman

 Mid-term                                        1.Khalil                        H. Razavi                      C. Poortman

 Completion                                      1.Khalil                        H. Razavi                      C. Poortman


                                              vii


Preface

        This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on the Emergency
Electric Power Reconstruction and Second Electric Power Reconstruction projects. The
former project was partly funded by an IDA Credit of SDR 24.9 million (Cr. 2903-BOS),
approved in July 1996 and closed on schedule in December 1998. A Credit of SDR 18.5
million (Cr. 3071-BOS), approved in May 1998, supportedthe Second Electric Power
Reconstruction Project, for which the original closing date of June 30, 2000, was extended
until December 2001.

        This report is based on the Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) prepared
by the Europe and Central Asia Region (Report no. 19479 dated June 28,1999, and
Report no. 24049, of June 19,2002), the appraisal documents (Report no. P-6804, July
10, 1996, and Report no. 17510, April 10,1998) loan documents, project files and
discussions with Bank staff. An Operations Evaluation Department (OED) mission
visited Bosnia and Herzegovina in March 2003 to discuss the effectiveness of the Bank's
assistancewith the government and the project implementing agencies. The collaboration
and assistanceof all their officials are gratefully acknowledged.

        These are the first projects in the Bank's substantial portfolio to be evaluated by
OED since lending operations in Bosnia and Herzegovina began in 1996. Sixteen of these
projects were processed as `emergency' operations, one of which is the subject of this
evaluation The only previous OED report on the country to date is a case study of post-
conflict reconstruction, published in 2000, but based on fieldwork carried out in 1997.

        Following standard OED procedures, the draft of this PPAR was sent to the
borrower and cofinanciers for comments before finalization. The borrower's responseis
attached as Annex B.


                                               ix


Summary

        Attached is the Performance Assessment Report prepared by the Operations
Evaluation Department on the above projects. The Emergency Electric Power
Reconstruction Project was partly funded by an IDA Credit of SDR 24.9 million,
approved in July 1996 and closed in December 1998. A Credit of SDR 18.5 million,
approved in May 1998, supported the Second Electric Power Reconstruction Project,
which closed in December 2001. Both projects were supported by a large group of
bilateral and multilateral cofinanciers.

        The objectives of the Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project were
to (i) restore electricity service to acceptable levels in the major cities and for vital
industries; (ii) increase coal production in the most efficient mines to supply the fuel
necessary for thermal power plants; (iii) reconfigure the electric power network; (iv)
enhancethe electricity enterprises' institutional capacity and improve their finances; and
(v) support power and coal sector restructuring.

        The project achievednotable successin meeting the three most important project
objectives: restoring power supply, increasing coal production, and improving utility
finances. It has had a highly satisfactory overall outcome. The benefits to the economy as
well as to the population of Bosnia and Herzegovina from this project were massive.
Within a two-year period electricity supply returned to acceptable levels in all major
towns, meeting one of the crucial preconditions for a resumption of economic growth.
The estimated EIRR of 48 percent, although very high, probably underestimates the
benefits to BiH, since the industrial and service sectors could never have resumed
operations without adequatepower supply. Project sustainability is assessedas ZikeJy,
while the institutional development impact was substantial. Bank and borrower
performance during the project arerated as highly satisfactory becauserapid and efficient
implementation by both the Bank and borrower staff meant that the project was
completed and fully disbursed only three years from identification.

         Theprimary objective of the Second Electric Power Reconstruction Project was
to restore electricity supply in BiH at least cost. The secondary objective of the project was
to improve cost recovery by the three electricity utilities. A third unstated objective was to
reduce the environmental impact of electricity generation in Bosnia and Herzegovina.

         The project successfully increasedthe capability of the utilities to expandtheir
production and salesof electricity. Collectively they raised the demand served in their
operating areasby about 20 percent in three years. It also permitted the restoration of
electricity supply to over 60,000 post-conflict returneesin rural areas.More modest
progresswas recorded in reducing energy losses,which remain unacceptably high (25-30
percent), in the areasservedby two of the country's three public utilities (EPRS and
EPHZHB). The reduction of atmospheric dust pollution and contamination of water bodies
at coal-fired power plants can be attributed to investments funded under the project.

         The project outcome is rated assatisfactory and the project's sustainability as likely.
The institutional development impact of the project is rated assubstantial, becauseof the

                                              X



progress recordedin bringing staff from the three utilities to work together on common is-
sues,especially power trading, and in raising awarenessof the importance of the environ-
mental aspectsof power generation. Bank and borrower performance was satisfactory.

       The key finding from these projects is that when electricity supply cannot be
organized in a manner that is technically and economically optimal, there are high costs
to a country in terms of lost efficiency and economies of scale.

       The project experience offers two lessons:


    l  Power sector restructuring in a heavily coal-based power system cannot be
       delinked from reform of the coal industry becauseof the predominance of coal in
       the cost of producing electricity from it. Reforms in both sectors should be
       addressedin parallel, or preferably coal sector reforms should precede electricity,
       but not lag behind.


    l  Experience with tariff increases and improved revenue collection in the
       immediate aftermath of the peace accord shows that consumers are willing to
       contribute to the cost of the rapid restoration of electricity supply.




                                                                       Gregory Ingram
                                                                       Director-General
                                                                       Operations Evaluation

1.      Background

1.1     Following the breakup of Yugoslavia in 1991, triggered by the secession of
Slovenia and Croatia, the independent state of Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) was
established in February 1992. Refusal by the Bosnian Serb leadership to accept
incorporation into the new state led to a three-year civil war. The hostilities and
accompanying ethnic cleansing led to the death of a quarter of a million Bosnians,
massive displacement of people within the country, and the exodus of a million refugees.
The war shatteredthe economy, particularly its infrastructure, housing stock, and
industrial base. Just the most urgent reconstruction needswere put at US$5 billion. BiH's
pre-war GDP of about US$9 billion shrank to about US$2 billion.

1.2     The Dayton peace accords of November 1995 laid out a new political structure for
BiH that brings together two "entities, " the Bosniac-Croat Federation of Bosnia and Her-
zegovina and the Serb Republic Srpska (RS), under a State that was deliberately (and un-
usually) weak. The latter does not have responsibility for national defense or the police
and has no sources of revenue other than transfers from the entities. As pointed out by
OED's study of post-conflict reconstruction,' the State "has virtually no capacity to bring
about agreement or compliance on the part of its citizens or constituent jurisdictions...the
statemachinery is extraordinarily lacking in resources and institutional capability." At the
same time, governmental functions in BiH take place at four levels: state, entity, cantons
(in the Federation.) and municipalities, giving the country one of the world's highest per
capita levels of public administration. While the Dayton accords were an astutepoiitical
compromise necessary to ensurepeace,the complex structures they gave birth to have
made the task of economic reconstruction and development even more challenging than
usual.

1.3     Before the civil war, BiH had a single, vertically integrated electric power system
with an installed capacity of 4,000 MW and 1.4 million consumers. It produced nearly
15,000 GWh in 1991, while electricity consumption was over 11,000 GWh and peak load
was nearly 2,000 MW.

1.4     The electricity supply installations in BiH were specifically targeted and heavily
damaged during the civil war. All of the 400 kV and most of the 220 kV lines were put
out of action. Overhead distribution networks and substations in many towns were
severely damaged and several cities were entirely without power for more than two years.
Many electricity facilities had to be de-mined before they could be inspected and
repaired. The utility buildings, equipment, and vehicle fleets were all decimated. Damage
to coal mines meant that power plants that were relatively unscathed could not generateat
full capacity due to difficulties in mining and transporting coal to them.

1.5     Following the quasi-partitioning of the country along communal lines during the
war, the electricity system was also divided into three new enterprises, Electroprivreda
BiH (EPBiH) for the Bosnian community, Electroprivreda Republika Srpska (EPRS) for

1. Bosnia and Herzegovina: Post-Conflict Reconstruction, Kreimer et al. 2000, OED Country case study
series.

                                                      2


the Serbian regions and Electroprivreda Hrvatske Zajednice Herceg-Bosne (EPHZHB)
for the Croatian community. Each of these new (integrated) utilities has continued to
operate separately since the 1995 peace accords, even though BiH has a population of
only 4 million.

1.6      As can be seen from the key indicators in Table 1, except for installed generation
capacity, the totals for the three enterprises do not yet equal the figures for the combined
enterprise a decade earlier.2High voltage electricity consumption by industry has only
recovered to about a third of its prewar level. Access to electricity among households is
almost universal, with the exception of some abandonedvillages where refugees are now
returning. Supply is restored as part of the donor-funded programs to encourage
returnees.


Table 1: BiH Electricity         Sector Key Indicators, 2001

               Generation             Gross         Sales      Electricity       Number      of     Number
                 capacity          generation      (G W         exports          consumers          of staff
                    fMw)             WW                          WW
EPBiH               1,855             5,115         4,655        1,600             611,000           6,300
EPRS                1,391             4,676         3,729        1,620             420,000           7,455a
EPHZHB               762              1,639         3,026           -              160,000           1,745
Total               4,008            11,430         N.A.b         N.A.b           1,I 91,000         15,500

Source: EPBiH,    EPRS,  EPHZHB
a. Including about 1,300 coal mining staff.
b. Cannot be added      up as they include transactions   between  the three companies.


1.7       Operational performance of the three utilities at the generation and transmission3
levels appearsto be reasonably satisfactory. However, this is not the case for distribution,
where the electricity losses of two of the three utilities remain unacceptably high.
Distribution losses in 2002 were 9 percent, 27 percent and 27 percent for EPBiH,
EPHZHB, and EPRS,4respectively. A significant portion of these losses is due to non-
technical factors such as illegal connections and unmetered consumption. Much more
needs to be done in the short term to addressthe weak commercial performance of the
sector.

1.8      Each utility has its own dispatch center and becausethe frequency of the three is
not synchronized,5their ability to optimize electricity exchangesbetween themselves and
their neighbors is constrained. The fragmented nature of the sector considerably reduces

2. For example, total electricity production in BiH was 11,430 GWh, or more than 20 percent below the
1991 level.

3. Transmission losses in 2001 were 2.8 percent, 1.3 percent and 2.5 percent of total electricity supply for
EPBiH, EPHZHB, and EPRS, respectively.

4. The data for EPRS are unreliable and the actual figures may be higher.

5. EPRS is synchronized with the Serbian power utility, while EPBiH and EPHZHB are synchronized with
the Croatian utility.

                                                     3


the potential benefits from economies of scale and closer operational coordination. The
inability to organize electricity supply on a technically and economically optimal basis
means that the country pays a significant cost penalty for its political and administrative
fragmentation. However, this is by no means unique to electricity and most other public
services are in a similar situation.

2.        Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction                                  Project

PROJECTOBJECTIVES

2.1       The objectives of the project as stated in the Memorandum of the President
(MOP)6 were (i) to restore electricity service to acceptable levels in the major cities and
for vital industries; (ii) to increase coal production in the most efficient mines to supply
the fuel necessary for thermal power plants; (iii) to reconfigure the electric power
network; (iv) to enhancethe electricity enterprises' institutional capacity and improve
their finances; and (v) to support power and coal sector restructuring.

2.2       Five objectives is too many for an emergency recovery project. The Bank's
guidelines7 for such operations (which pre-date this project) recommend that multiple
objectives be avoided. The first two objectives were clearly of highest priority.
Emergency recovery projects are not intended to addresspolicy issues relating to sector
restructuring. On the other hand, the project had no explicit environmental objective,
although important environmental improvements were funded by the project.


PROJECTDESIGN

2.3       The project beneficiaries were EPBiH' and RUT, the Tuzla coal company.
Inclusion of the latter was an indispensable precondition to increasing power generation.
The other two power utilities (EPRS and EPHZHB) had to be excluded from the project
becausetheir legal status and the ownership of their assetsin their operating areaswere
unclear at the time of appraisal.gTheir omission was partially covered by funding from
other donors and their inclusion in the subsequenttwo Bank-funded projects.

2.4       Even though the project was overwhelmingly for emergency reconstruction, Bank
staff envisaged that it was likely to be only the first phase in a series of power sector
interventions. Hence, studies to design medium and long-term restructuring strategies
were also included in the scope of the project. This was far-sighted but now appearsto
have been premature.




6. Report # P-6804-BIH dated July 10,1996. There was no PAD. A technical annex accompanied the MOP.

7. Para 2 of Good Practices, GP8.50, dated August 1995.

8. It had been aprevious borrower from the Bank, for the Mostar hydroelectric project in 1983 (Ln. 1561-w)

9. Reconstruction needs in the Croat and Serbian areas were funded in parallel by other donors.

                                                     4


2.5      As early asthe appraisal of the first project in 1996, the Bank had a clear vision
that "the transmission system could be unified under a single authority to ensurethe
optimization of power transmission and permit effective power trading as well as system
stabilization.""    A sector restructuring study was envisaged aspart of the project to
examine the possible options for the future institutional arrangements."


PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION

2.6      As befits an emergency reconstruction project, the operation was processedon an
acceleratedfooting -       only seven months elapsedbetween the initial Executive Project
Summary (EPS) and Board presentation in July 1996. Due recognition should be given to
this, taking into account the operational difficulties of making site visits at that time.
Physical implementation began even sooner under special financing arrangements.`*
Rapid and efficient implementation by both the Bank and borrower staff meant that the
project was completed and fully disbursed on schedule by end-1998, only three years
from identification. This is a noteworthy achievement, especially in the light of the large
financing gap13at the time of Board presentation and the participation of over a dozen
cofinanciers with different procurement and disbursement procedures.


EVALUATIONRATINGS


Overall Project Outcome

2.7      As described in the ensuing paragraphs, the excellent ratings for the main OED
evaluation criteria (relevance, efficacy, and efficiency), lead this PPAR to assessthe
overall outcome of the project as highly satisfactory.

2.8      Before the civil war BiH was a middle income developing country with a
diversified economy, a large industrial sector and universal accessto electricity. The loss
of unrestricted, regular, and reliable electricity supply was therefore felt particularly
acutely. Restoration of electricity supply was both urgent aswell asvital to the
resumption of normal life and economic activity. In quantitative terms, l4electricity
production from EPBiH's rehabilitated plants rose by two-thirds, to over 2,400 GWh, by
the time of project completion. RUT's coal production doubled between 1996 and 1998
to over 2 million tons, keeping pace with the needs of the power sector. Thus within a
two-year period electricity supply returned to acceptable levels in all major towns,



10. Para 27 (a) of the Technical Annex to the MOP.

11. It was undertaken separately in 1997 by consultants funded by USAID.

12. A project startup advance for anumber of emergency projects had been arranged from the Bank's Trust
Fund for BiH, before its formal membership in the WBG as a successor state to the former Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia.

13. US$63 million out of a total project cost of $196 million.

14. More details are contained in the ICR.

                                                      5


meeting one of the crucial preconditions for a resumption of economic growth15.
Excellent results were also achieved in the financial area as energy losses in the EPBiH
distribution system fell sharply and there were major improvements in meter reading,
billing, and revenue collection. Tariffs were also raised to nearly US 7 cents/kWh on
average,despite the post-war economic hardships faced by the majority of the
population. In 1998, EPBiH's revenue collections reached 110 percent of its cash
operating expenses,above the covenanted level of 100 percent.


Relevance of Objectives

2.9      The project's objectives were all highly relevant to the most pressing problems in
the electricity sector and were consistent with the overall CAS approach to post-conflict
reconstruction in BiH. While the first three objectives were short-term in nature and were
fully achieved, the latter two objectives are more long-term and are still relevant to the
current sector and country strategies.




2.10     The overall efficacy of the project is assessedas high becauseof the notable
successin achieving the three most relevant and important project objectives: restoring
power supply, increasing coal production, and improving utility finances. There was also
some progress in the achievement of the secondary objectives, but as stated earlier (para.
lo), these objectives probably should not have been part of an emergency recovery
operation.

Efficiency

2.11     The benefits to the economy as well as the population of BiH from this project
were massive. The ICR estimates the EIRR to have been 48 percent. This is probably an
underestimate, since it only includes incremental salesvalued at prevailing tariffs as a
measure of benefits. It is clear that the industrial and service sectors in BiH could never
have resumed operations without adequatepower supply. Similarly, the welfare gains to
domestic consumers from the restoration of their accessto electricity was enormous.
Finally, the EIRR does not capture the considerable environmental benefits from the
reduction in atmospheric and water pollution that was achieved as a result of investments
funded by the project. The project's efficiency is therefore assessedas high.


Sustainability

2.12     EPBiH's recovery from the damage inflicted by the civil war is largely complete.
It has developed into a relatively strong and well-run utility. Technical performance
standards are fairly good, although there is evident scope for efficiency gains, cost


15. As noted in the preface to OED's case study (op. cit.) of post-conflict reconstruction in BiH, "The
overall short-term objective of jump starting the economy was achieved, along with a rapid and visible
improvement in the restoration of basic infrastructure (for example, housing, transportation and power)."

                                              6


reductions, and improvements in operational and financial performance. Overall project
sustainability is therefore rated likely.


Institutional  Development Impact

2.13     The emphasis the project placed on cost recovery, tariff adjustments, and
improvements in revenue collection (para. 16) produced good results in EPBiH's
financial performance. This was an important institutional development aspect of the
project as it signaled to consumers that they had to be prepared to contribute to the
restoration of a satisfactory power supply.

2.14     The project also triggered key preparatory studies for power sector restructuring
and an improved legislative framework for electricity, which were to prove useful in the
subsequentphase of sector rehabilitation (paras. 33-34).

2.15     The most significant impact of the project in skill development was on the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) of EPBiH. Through implementing the project, it developed
considerable skills in international procurement using funding agency procedures. It also
demonstrated good performance in contract management and project monitoring.
Preparation of bidding documents can now be undertaken in-house. All these skills were
put to good use in the two follow-on projects.

2.16     The overall institutional development impact of the project is therefore assessed
as substantial.


Bank Performance

2.17     Overall Bank performance is assessedas highly satisfactory. The project
objectives were highly relevant to the Bank's strategy for the country and the project
design and quality at entry were good, despite the concerns flagged in the ICR about
overly complex cofinancing and procurement arrangements. The credit was processed
expeditiously within the Bank and adequateresourceswere devoted to supervision.
Missions were undertaken frequently and implementation was facilitated by the presence
of a full-time staff member for the sector in the Bank's Sarajevo office, The Bank played
a very active role in donor coordination and resource mobilization for the project.


Borrower Performance

2.18     The implementing agencieswere fully involved in project preparation and
displayed a high degreeof project ownership. An initial estimation of reconstruction
needs was prepared by EPBiH in 1994, well before the Dayton peace accords were
signed. This proved a valuable starting point for the design and preparation of the project.
The involvement of staff with previous experience on Bank-funded projects also helped.
Implementation was challenging, but was achieved in a timely manner, thanks to the
collective efforts and dedication to speedyresults by all involved. PIU staff in particular

                                                    7


performed outstandingly. Overall performance by the borrower is therefore rated as
highly satisfactory.

3.       Second Electric Power Reconstruction                              Project

PROJECT OBJECTIVES

3.1      As stated in the appraisal document, theprimary objective of the project was to
restore electricity supply in BiH at least cost. The project aimed to help restore
generation, transmission, and distribution systems to meet at least part of the expected
increase in demand within BiH, reconnect many consumers who were still without power
after the war, and reduce power outages,variations in voltage level, and other quality of
service defects.

3.2      The secondary objective of the project was to improve cost recovery by the
electricity companies, to ultimately make them financially autonomous of the
government.

3.3      A third and unstated objective16of the project was to reduce the environmental
impact of electricity generation in BiH. This is apparent from the inclusion of funding for
investments in pollution control technologies at coal-fired power stations.

3.4       Surprisingly, neither coal and power sector policy reforms nor restructuring were
mentioned in the statement of project development objectives, even though thesewere
clearly part of the Bank's strategy for the energy sector and important actions in these
areaswere to be initiated under the project, backed up by dated covenants.

3.5       The project's underlying philosophy was that it should contribute to nation
building, although this was not explicitly spelt out in the project objectives either. The
donor community was keen to build a new state of BiH from its constituent parts.
Promoting collaboration on technical matters and then encouraging economic
transactions was (and is) seenas a way of building confidence and links among the three
communities in BiH. However, the minutes of the credit negotiations17make it clear that
promoting greater exchangesof electricity among the three utilities is a major rationale
for the project. Covenants to this effect, as well as for the operation of a technically
integrated power system were incorporated in the Project Agreements with them.


PROJECT DESIGN

3.6       The second Bank operation in BiH's power sector was designed as a
"transitional" project spanning a period when the country moved out of the immediate
post-conflict emergency reconstruction into a more normal mode of economic


16. OED guidelines permit the evaluator to define a project's "revealed objectives," which then provide the
basis of the overall project evaluation.

17. Dated February 26, 1998 (Para 16).

                                                     8


development. For example, in this project (unlike in the first) the electricity utilities were
clearly expected to contribute to financing the local costs of their investment programs. `*



3.7       The project was more complex than its precursor because all three electricity
utilities were implementing agencies and because policy actions for sector reforms were
included. The latter were an integral part of the project, as evidenced by the inclusion of
dated covenants requiring the submission to the parliaments of draft electricity laws.

3.8       As a precursor to the legislation, electricity policy statements had to be
formulated in a coordinated manner between the Federation and the Republika Srpska.
This helped to bring technocrats from the two sides to work together on these policy and
legislative matters.

3.9       With hindsight, it now appearsthat the circumstances prevailing in BiH when the
project was being designed and prepared would have been more suitable for an
Adjustable Program Loan (APL)" rather than a traditional Specific Investment Loan
(SIL) with dated covenants. "There was broad agreement with the governments of the
two entities on the major sector reform principles, but considerable uncertainty about the
time necessaryto design and implement them.

3.10      In addition, it now appearsthat the emphasis given to the policy issues may have
been at the expenseof more traditional power utility commercialization and capacity-
building efforts. .A11three utilities had been seriously weakened by the loss of skilled
personnel during the civil war. Furthermore, becauseof isolation during the war, they had
been cut off from progress elsewhere in utility management practices, particularly in the
areasof consumer service, billing, and management information systems (MIS).
Considerable knowledge and investment backlog in office technology and good utility
management had built up during the 1990s and the project design did not adequately
addressedthese issues. The PPAR mission found that these shortcomings still prevail,
particularly in EPRS and EPHZHB.


PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION

3.11      Project preparation began in late 1996, almost as soon asthe Emergency Power
Reconstruction Project had been declared effective. Appraisal took place in early 1998


18. Although not initially envisaged, EPBiH did fund some local costs from its own resources even under
the first project.

19. The project was appraised about six months after the new lending instruments were endorsed by the
Executive Directors in August 1997.

2O.The Region pointed out that "at the time of project preparation, there was little or no experience in using
APLs. Bosnia was and is an IDA country, with the size of the IDA credits being relatively
small.. .Dividing the small amount of money available to the power sector into even smaller conditional
future releases would not have given the Bank much leverage unless cofmanciers could have been
persuaded to treat their lending in the same way."

                                                      9


and Board approval was obtained in May 1998. A six-month delay in effectiveness
followed, due to the time required to establish the joint power coordination center,
(known by its local acronym ZEKC) to facilitate national and international electricity
trading (para. 48). The IDA-funded components of the project2' suffered some slippage in
implementation, but the credit was fully disbursed and closed by end-2001, just over
three years after it was declared effective. Most of the other non-IDA components have
since been completed, except those financed by the JapanBank for International
Cooperation. These have suffered major delays and may not be finished even by end-
2003.

3.12     Setting up ZEKC had become a condition of credit effectiveness when a deadline
passedthat had earlier been agreed at negotiations (as a dated covenant).22Bank staff felt
that it was important for the successof the project to insist on the prior establishment of
ZEKC. This led to a six-month delay in effectiveness. At its creation in late 1998, it was
envisaged that by the end of two years, ZEKC would perform dispatch functions for the
three electricity enterprises, but this has yet to occur.

3.13     The project successfully increased the capability of the three utilities to expand
their production and salesof electricity. Collectively they raised the demand served in
their operating areasby about 20 percent in three years, to 9,400 GWh in 2001. It also
permitted the restoration of electricity supply to over 60,000 post-conflict returnees in
rural areas,which was an important achievement from a social and political perspective.

3.14     More modest progress was recorded in reducing energy losses, which remain
unacceptably high (25-30 percent), particularly in the areasserved by EPRS and
EPHZHB. The least satisfactory results obtained were in the financial area,where none
of the three utilities was able to comply with the revenue covenants i.nthe credit. After
the spectacular increases in collections recorded in the first project, some slowdown was
inevitable, but contrary to expectations in the appraisal document, EPBiH registered an
operating loss of KM 78 million (nearly US$40 million) in 2001. The lossesof EPRS
were even larger -       KM 134 million (US$68 million),23 although EPHZHB managed to
break even.




21. Which represented only 16 percent of the total project.

22. The covenant for setting up ZEKC agreed at negotiations set a date of July 1998, based on the
assumption that the credit would already have been effective at this time.

23. EPRS's accounts have been seriously qualified by its auditors for several years. A recent (February
2003) investigation into its commercial and financial operations by OHR casts doubts on the accuracy of
the data provided to the Bank on its revenue collections and electricity losses.

                                                 10


EVALUATIONRATINGS


Overall Project Outcome

3.15     The overall outcome of the project as assessedas satisfactory becauseof the
relevance of its objectives and the substantial achievement of the principal objectives.
Shortcomings in meeting the project's financial objectives prevent a higher overall rating.


Relevance of Objectives

3.16     This PPAR considers the project's "revealed objectives" (para. 29) to be at least
as important asthose stated in paras. 27-28. The project's relevance and its consistency
with the Bank's current country and sectoral assistance strategy is assessedas high,
primarily becauseof the revealed rather than stated objectives.




3.17     The overall efficacy of the project is assessedas substantial becauseof the good
results achieved in pursuit of the project's major objectives, regardless of whether they
were explicit or not, that is, restoring and extending accessto electricity, reducing the
adverse environmental impacts of coal-fired power generation, and initiation of power
sector reforms such as the enactment of new electricity laws and the creation of ZEKC.
However, there was much less progress in achieving the secondary objective of
improving cost recovery by the utilities.


EfJiciency

3.18     According to the ICR the re-estimated EIRR on a time slice of the utility
investment program is 16 percent as against the 26 percent calculated at appraisal due to
higher costs and lower tariffs.24Nevertheless, this is above the 12 percent opportunity
cost of capital. The project's efficiency is therefore assessedas substantial.


Sustainability

3.19     The rehabilitation and environmental investments carried out aspart of the project
are likely to be sustainable, becausethe three utilities are technically and managerially
able to ensure their longevity. Although there is some uncertainty about the pursuit of
power sector reforms, these are far from complete, making a considered judgment on the
them difficult. Given the preponderance of physical investments in this project, overall
sustainability is rated as likely, despite the decline in the sector's financial performance.




24. Both estimates exclude the consumer surplus.

                                                       11


Institutional    Development Impact

3.20     The institutional development impact of the project is assessedas substantial
becauseof the progress recorded in pursuit of power sector reforms (paras 4%49), its role
in bringing staff from the three utilities to work together on common issues2',especially
power trading, and in raising awarenessabout the importance of the environmental
aspectsof power generation.


Bank and Borrower Performance

3.21     The overall performance of both the Bank and the borrower is assessedto be
satisfactory. The efficiency of staff and the dedication to rapid project implementation
demonstrated under the first project (paras. 23 and 26) was sustainedunder the second
project.

4.       Sectoral Issues

POWERSECTORRESTRUCTURING

4.1      As mentioned in para. 38, ZEKC was expected to become the independent system
operator for entire BiH system within two years of its creation. It has received bilateral
assistance from the U.K. and Spain, including a state-of-the-art, real-time monitoring
system linked to the three utility dispatch centers, which enables it to track bulk
electricity flows. But progress toward making it the system operator, as agreedunder the
subsequentThird Electric Power Reconstruction Project (Power III), has stalled recently.
Four years after it was set up, ZEKC can do no more than monitor and record bulk flows
of electricity in BiH. Even its legal status has been problematic and it operatesas a
business association of the three utilities rather than as a state enterprise or private
company. The rehabilitation of the 400 kV network (which has yet to be carried out as
part of Power III), is crucial to enabling ZEKC to become the system operator and it is
now apparent that the original timetable for transforming it into the IS0 was over-
optimistic. Despite reservations, the two Entity governments are still officially
committed to establishing a single transmission company for BiH,26 and to setting up of a
single independent system operator once the 400 kV system is fully operational.

4.2      Electricity laws have been passed at the State and Entity levels that, among other
things, provide for the establishment of three regulatory agencies. While it would have
been simpler and less costly for BiH to have a single electricity law and single regulatory
agency, this was not feasible under the political set-up established under the Dayton
peace accords. Ensuring coordination and a consistency of approach is likely to prove a



25. In the post-war context of nation-building, the seemingly innocuous collaboration between the utilities
necessitated by the project, carried considerable political and symbolic significance.

26. A draft law has been prepared at the State level for establishment of the single transmission company
that would be jointly owned by the Entity governments in proportion to the value of the assetscontributed.

                                                    12


major challenge when these bodies begin f%mctioningz7.Given the scarcity of regulatory
expertise of any kind in BiH, it is far from clear how these regulatory agencieswill be
adequately staffed.

4.3      The creation of an inter-governmental steering committee for power sector
reforms with representation from all involved parties is clearly needed to improve
coordination and the harmonization of approaches". Ambitious plans for unbundling or
restructuring of the three power utilities on functional lines have been prepared by
consultants and are currently under discussion. The reform proposals have been devised
by a small circle comprising the utilities, their governments, the consultants, and the aid
donors. Until the time of the PPAR mission, no attempt had been made to open
participation to all stakeholders. Greater public debate of these reforms in civil society
and with stakeholders such as the labor unions and consumer representatives would be
desirable as a way of building broader support for reforms29.

4.4      Implementation is likely to be complex and will be phased in over several years30,
with the goal of creating multiple generation and distribution companies that could
eventually be privatized. These would be organized functionally and geographically,
rather than purely on Entity lines, so as to assist in the formation of BiH's single
economic space.

4.5      In the transitional phase,it would be desirable for the three public utilities to
benefit from accessto hands-on expertise provided by other electricity c,ompaniesthat
have undergone similar restructuring during the past decade.Such assistancewould
probably need to be funded by the donor community, at least for EPHZHB and EPRS.




4.6      At the time the first project was appraised, Bank staff were clearly aware that
while funding of rehabilitation of the highly polluting, coal-burning Tuzla and Kakanj
power stations was vital for the quick restoration of power supply, it would be necessary
for the Bank not to insist on applying its usual environmental standardsas a condition of
its participation. This pragmatic approach was appropriate given the emergency nature of
the project and the urgency of implementing it. The same approach was also applied to
the funding of sparesand equipment for the RUT coal mines, where the rigid insistence
on the application of environmental safeguardswould have led to major delays3'.




27. The process of nominating members to the regulatory commissions is proving to be much slower than
anticipated.

28. This has been agreed to in principle by the main parties.

29. This process began in April 2003 with a televised panel discussion, after the OED mission.

30. Although the present schedule appears to be overly-compressed.

31. Attachment 8 of the Technical Annex to the PR summarizes the EMP, but makes no mention of the
project's coal component.

                                                  13


4.7     The Bank's operational policy for emergency recovery assistance (OP 8.50) is
silent on the issue of environmental procedures to be followed for emergency recovery
loans. However, the accompanying BP 8.5032explicitly emphasizes the importance of
speed and recommends that the project identification-preparation-appraisal phase should
be completed in six weeks. Observing such a tight processing schedule implicitly      means
that environmental guidelines have to be set aside in emergency lending.

4.8     However, the appraisal of the secondproject was carried out in line with normal
Bank procedures and guidelines since it was not an emergency recovery loan. As an
environmental category B project, Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) were
prepared for the four thermal power plants, Tuzla, Kakanj, Gacko, and Ugljevik and these
were found satisfactory after appropriate review.

4.9     The modernization of the ash transportation systems at Tuzla and Gacko power
plants, the repair of electrostatic precipitators and the installation of an environmental
monitoring system at Tuzla, the reduction of dust pollution, and contamination of water
bodies at Kakanj power plant, can all be attributed to investments funded under thesetwo
projects.

4.10    The PPAR mission's brief visit to three of these listed plants found some evidence
of progress in reducing atmospheric emissions at all the plants, particularly of
particulates. Nevertheless, as shown in Table 2, there is still a considerable gap to be
closed to meet EU norms. However, doing so is likely to require major investments, such
as in desulfurizing equipment, which may only be justified if the plants continue to be
operated for a long period. Given the ageof some units, particularly at Kakanj,
environmental upgrading may not be justified.


Table 2: Atmospheric         Emissions from EPBiH Coal-Fired Power Plants (mg/nm3)

                         1990             2002              2002           2002         2002

                     Tuzla  Unit 3    Tuzla  Unit 3    Tuzla average      Kakanj     ElJ Norm
NOx                       630              600              560            1115         650
sax                       n.a             1800              1960           7629         400
Dust                      800              50               310            353           50

Source: EPBiH

4.11    Higher emissions standardsprobably have been adopted sooner in BiH power
plants as a result of the involvement of foreign funding agencies.Had these plants not
been selected for repair or rehabilitation as a result of the post-conflict inflow of
investment resources, it is unlikely they would have adopted such norms by now.

4.12    On the other hand, hydraulic ash disposal from Unit 333at the Tuzla plant remains
problematic and does not appearto comply with current environmental practices. The ash


32. Para 8, BP 8.50, August 1995.

33. Rehabilitated with IDA funds.

                                                      14


disposal "lake" is almost full and the waste water flows untreated into a nearby river.34
Switching to dry ash disposal (as is done for several of the other units at the same plant)
was to have been part of the Power III project, but has been shelved for lack of fUnds35.
This is unsatisfactory and the Bank should avoid exposing itself to an unnecessary
reputational risk by not making adequateprovision for an environmentally acceptable
system of ash disposaP6.Ideally, a satisfactory solution to the problem should have been
included in the scope of Power II. Testing of the chemical composition of the water
outflow from the ash `lake' and carrying out the environmental rehabilitation of the wet
ash `lake' deservepriority attention under Power III. Finding funds for a dry ash disposal
system for Unit 3 would be advisable if this unit is to be kept in service.


COALSECTORISSUES

4.13      BiH has a large and varied coal mining industry that mainly produces brown coal
and lignite for power generation. The bulk of BiH's electricity generation37is based on
these fuels and coal can account for as much as two-thirds of the cost of generating
electricity, given the age and type of plants in service in BiH. Coa13*accounted for 48
percent of EPBiH's total operating expensesin 2001.

4.14      In the 1980s was asmuch as 18 million tons of coal was produced per year with
about 26,000 employees. Mining is undertaken by two main coal enterprises in the
Federation, while in the Republika Srpska most coal mines belong to the power utility,
E,PRS.The industry suffers from serious overcapacity, as annual production is now only
about 6 million tons. Substantial levels of overstaffing3gand an acute shortage of funds
for restructuring add to its difficulties.

4.15      Nevertheless, a restructured coal industry appearsto have a secure long-term
future as the predominant primary energy source for electricity. It is highly unlikely that
imported gas or coal for baseload generation could be delivered to BiH's thermal power
plants at a financially competitive price. But much needsto be done to consolidate
production in the most economical mines and to shutdown those that cannot be made
viable. Provided this occurs, BiH's coal for power generation could be produced for
under US$2 per gigajoule, which is considered to be an economically competitive level.

4.16      The secondpower project included investments for the rehabilitation of several
coal mines aswell as studies to prepare for coal sector restructuring. These components

34. As OED did not have accessto the EMP for the Tuzla plant, it is unclear if the problem was identified
and remedial measures proposed in the EMP.

35. The Region pointed out that EBRD is providing cofinancing of E20 mn for environmental upgrades at
all four thermal power plants in BiH.

36. The Region agreed to look in to the issue and follow up with EPBiH.

37. In 2001 coal accounted for 70 percent of EPBiH's generation. The share varies from year to year,
depending upon hydrological conditions, which were relatively good in 2001.

38. Including the transportation cost to the power plants.

39. Over 10,000 miners are estimated to be surplus to requirements in the Federation alone.

                                                    15


were to be carried out with bilateral funding from Japan and the United States. The
studies are now available, but the investments have yet to be carried out. Following the
completion of the first (emergency) project in which about US$5 million of IDA funds
were used for the needs of the coal industry, the Bank did not directly finance any further
investments or studies in the coal sector, but remained involved in matters relating to coal
in a review or advisory capacity. The Bank's Regional management was apparently
unwilling to addressthe politically and socially difficult problems associatedwith
reducing coal industry employment. This is unsurprising, given the already high very
unemployment in BiH and the fragility of the political system4'.

4.17     The PPAR mission's discussions in BiH would seem to indicate that there is fairly
widespread realization within the Federation's energy industry that reforms are now
necessary and that an adequatetechnical and economic basis for coal sector restructuring
exists in the form of the various consultant studies that have been carried out recently.41
However, there is little knowledge of how the coal industry was restructured elsewhere,
particularly in other transition countries, and of the possibilities for financial support
from donors for such programs. Given the Bank's wide experience of coal restructuring,
there appearsto be a case for re-engaging in the coal sector in BiH, especially given the
close links between coal and power. Least-cost electricity production needs efficient and
viable, low-cost coal suppliers.

5.       Findings and Lessons

5.1      The following findings emerge from the performance assessmentof these two
projects:


     l   When electricity supply cannot be organized in a manner that is technically and
         economically optimal there are high costs to a country in terms of lost efficiency
         and economies of scale.


     l   In the face of political obstacles, it may be slightly easier in electricity than in
         other sectorsto bring about greater trade across frontiers becauseelectricity is not
         a highly visible commodity and the presenceof power lines is no indicator of
         whether power is flowing or in which direction. However, BiH is probably unique
         in electricity being used to spearheadinternal political unification and nation
         building. The jury is still out on whether this tactic can succeed.


     l   The Bank can deliver successful emergency reconstruction projects on a fast track
         basis, despite internal constraints that work against rapidity.


40. The Region pointed out that ". .significant funds are required for the social costs [of restructuring] and
for the concurrent investments for the mines. The Bank is under tremendous pressure to be selective [in its
lending] as the availability of IDA funds shrank from US$lOO million/year under IDA12 to US$30 &yr
under IDA14."

41. The OED mission was not able to ascertain the views of the government of the Republika Srpska on
this issue.

                                           16


   l The Bank's current guidelines for emergency recovery projects do not explicitly
     indicate whether it is acceptable to not apply the Bank's usual environmental
     safeguardsto such projects for reasonsof urgency and speedof processing.

5.2  The experience offers two lessons of note:


   l Power sector restructuring in a heavily coal-based power system cannot be
     delinked from reform of the coal industry becauseof the predominance of coal in
     the cost of producing electricity from it. Reforms in both sectors should be
     addressedin parallel, or preferably coal sector reforms should precede electricity,
     but not lag behind;


   l EPBiH's experience with tariff increases and improved revenue collection in the
     immediate aftermath of the peace accord, shows that consumers arewilling to
     contribute to the cost of the rapid restoration of electricity supply.

                                                           17                                      Annex A


  Annex A: Basic Data Sheets

  BOSNIAANDHERZEGOVINA:EMERGENCYELECTRICPOWERRECONSTRUCTION
  PROJECT


  Key Project Data (US$ millions)
                                     Appraisal                    Actual or          Actual as % of
                                      estimate                current estimate      appraisal estimate
IDA Credit                             35.0                         34.24                  97.8
Cofinancing                           146.35                       134.12                  91.6
Government                             15.00                         14.07                 99.3
Total Proiect Costs                   196.35                       168.36                  93.8



                      Cumulative       Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                                                fin US$ millions)
                                                    FY96     FY97     FY98    FY99
                               Appraisal estimate    0.5      19.3    35.0     -
                               Actual                0.0      12.7    33.4    35.4
                               Actual as % of         0      65.8     95.4    99.4
                               estimate
                              --Dateof final disbursement:       April 28, 1999



  Project Timetable
                                                        Original                         Actual
    Identification/Preparation                        January 1996                   January 1996
    Appraisal                                         March 1996                      March 1996
    Approval                                          August 1996                     August 1996
    Effectiveness                                    September 1996                  September 1996
    Project Completion                                 June 1998                     December 1998
    Credit closing                                   December 1998                   December 1998



   Staff InDuts fstaff weeks)
                                                      Actual weeks                   Actual US$OOO
    Preparation to Appraisal                               1.7                             10.9
    Appraisal                                             35.6                             93.6
    Negotiations through Approval                         12.0                             40.4
    Supervision                                           67.3                            240.1
    Completion                                            15.1                             52.3
    Total                                               131.7                             437.3

                                                      18                                          Annex     A


Mission Data
                                                                                        Pe$ormance rating
                           Date        No. of
                       (month/year)   persons       Specializations  represented   Implementation Development
                                                                                       status      objectives
Identification/        January 1996       2                     FA, PE
Preparation
Appraisal/               June 1996        6          FA, PE,ME, EE, ES,LC
Board Approval
Supervision1             June 1996        4              FA, PE,ME, LC                   S              S
Supervision2          September1996       4              FA, PE,ME, EE                   S              S
Supervision 3          March 1997         2                     FA, PE                   S              S
Supervision4             June 1997        3                  PE,ME, ES                   S              S
Supervision5           October 1997       3                 PE, ME, FA                   S              S
Supervision6             June 1998        2                     PE, FA                   S              S
Supervision7          November 1998       3                  PE,ME, FA                   S              S
ICR

Specializations represented: FA: Financial Analyst; PE: Power Engineer; ME: Mining Engineer; EE:
Energy Economist; ES: Environmental    Specialist; LC: Legal Council.

Performance ratings: S: Satisfactory.

                                                         19                                      Annex A



  BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA:              SECOND ELECTRIC        POWER RECONSTRUCTION         PROJECT


  Key Project Data (`US$millions)
                                     Appraisal                 Actual or            Actual as % of
                                     estimate               current estimate       appraisal estimate
IDA Credit                            25.0                        23.97                   95.9
Cofinancing                          111.86                      102.38                   91.5
Government                            32.88                       32.65                   99.3
Total Proiect Costs                  169.74                      159.00                   93.7


                      Cumulative      Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                                               (in US$ millions)
                                           FY98    FY99    FYOO     FYOl    FY02
                       Appraisal estimate   1.2    20.0     25.0    25.0    25.0

                              Actual          0    0.53     5.74    19.39   23.97
                         Actual as % of       0     2.7      23      78      96
                             estimate



  Proiect Timetable
                                                      Original                          Actual
    Identification/Preparation                                                      October 1996
    Appraisal                                                                      February 10, 1998
    Approval                                                                        May 19,1998
    Effectiveness                                 September 1, 1998                 March 1, 1999
    Mid-term review                                October 1, 1999                  October 1,200O
    Credit closing                                  June 30,200O                   December 1,200l



   Staff Iilputs (stafiweeh)
                                                    Actual weeks                    Actual lJS$OOO
    Identification/Preparation                        110                                200
    Appraisal/Negotiation                              90                                199
    Supervision                                       210                                511
    Completion                                          8                                 25
    Total                                             418                                935

                                                    20                                           Annex A


Mission Data
                                                                                      Performance rating
                           Date        No. of
                       (month/year)   persons      Specializations represented   Implementation Development
                                                                                     status      objectives
Identification/          June 1997       3               SPE,EE, CME
Preparation           September1997      6        TM, SPE,FA, ME, EE, SM
Appraisal/            February 1998      9    TM, SC, SPE,SFA(2),EnE, PE,EE,
Negotiation                                                     ME
 Supervision1            June 1998       4              TM, SPE,EE, C
 Supervision2         November 1998       7      TM, FA, SPE,ME, C, ES,EnE
 Supervision 3        February 1999       1                      TM
 Supervision4            May 1999         6        TM, FA, ES, C, EnE,ME               S               S
 Supervision5         November 1999       9    TM, EE, FA, PA, SEE,EnE,FMS,            S               S
                                                                C(2)
 Supervision6          March 2000         6        TM, SEE,EnE, FMS, C(2)              S               S
 Supervision7          October 2000       5          TM, EnE, FMS, C(2)                S               S
 Supervision8            May 2001         2                    W,E                     S               S
 ICR

Specializations represented: SPE: Senior Power Engineer; EE: Environmental Expert; CME: Coal Mining
Engineer; TM: Task Manager; FA: Financial Analyst; ME: Mining Engineer; SM: Sector Manager; SC:
Senior Counsel, SFA: Senior Financial Analyst; EnE: Energy Economist; PE: Power Engineer; C:
Consultant; ES: Energy Specialist; PA: Procurement Analyst; SEE: Senior Energy Economist; FMS:
Financial Management Specialist.

Performance ratings: S: Satisfactory.

                                                                21                                                             Annex B


Annex B: Borrower Comments


                           JPELEKTROPRIVWDA BiH sap.o. SAJMJEVO




    THE WORLD BANK
                                                                                                             Sarajevo,   3OrO7.2003.g.

    Ann:     Alain Barbu, Manager
             Sector and Thematic          Evaluation         Group
             Operations      Evaluation    Department
             Fax: (202) 522-2123



   Subject: Bosnia and Herzegovina
              Draft  Project       Performance          Assessment Report
              Emergency        Electric   Power Reconstruction                   Project ( credit 2903-BOS              )
              Second Electric        Power Reconstruction                Project ( credit 3071-BOS                 )




   Dear Mr. Barbu,

   Regarding    Draft   Project Performance               Assessment        Report dated on July 2, 2003 I would like to
   inform   you that it is acceptable to us integraIly.                Also we think that applied evaluation                   method and
   evaluation   rating     for assessed Emergency                Electric       Power        Project Reconstruction           and Second
   Electric Power Reconstruction            are made objectively               and correct. In order to achieve more precise
   formulations    in the Report we suggest to :

        -   Change last sentence in Item 57 as follows                     :
            " Given    the age of some units particuIarly                      at    32MW          Units    in Kakanj     environmental
            upgrading    on these Units may not justified."

        -   Item 59, in first line word "Unit 3" needs to be replaced with word "Unit                                 5"




   With respect,




                Bosna i Herccgovinq  71000 Sarajevo,   Vilsonovo 5etdiSrc IS, Telefon:  +387    33 751 001, Fw ~387 33 751 003.
                                        www.elel;noprivreda.ba,   E-mailI : e.kresoOele~~oprivrcda.ba
                                                                     II  I\


