Page  1
December 17, 1997
Mr. Mirsad Kurtovic
Minister of Foreign Trade and
 Economic Relations
Musala 9
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
Re:
Dutch Grant for Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project
Grant Number TF024772
Dear Mr. Kurtovic:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (the 
Association) to indicate the Association's  agreement, as administrator of grant funds 
provided by the Netherlands, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding four million 
four hundred ten thousand United States dollars ($4,410,000) (the Grant) to Bosnia and 
Herzegovina (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purpose and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, 
that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purpose and on 
the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by the Association of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, 
this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ R. O’Sullivan                                
Director
Bosnia and Herzegovina Resident Mission
AGREED:
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ M. Kurtovic
Authorized Representative(s)
Date:
December 24, 1997
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to support the Emergency Electric Power 
Reconstruction Project, part of the Priority Reconstruction Program, which has been 
developed by the Association in close consultation with the Recipient.  
1.2.
The activity (the Activity) for which the Grant is given is the procurement of  
maintenance vehicles for Elektroprivreda Bosne i Herzegovina (EPBiH) in order to allow 
EPBiH to operate and carry out necessary maintenance.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall, cause EPBiH to: (a) carry out the Activity with due 
Page  2
diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the 
Activity and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Association shall reasonably 
request.
2.2. 
The Recipient shall: (a) from time to time exchange views with the Association's 
representatives on the progress and results of the Activity; and (b) take all 
necessary measures required to enable the Association to visit the territory of 
Recipient for purposes related to the Grant. Without limitation on the foregoing, the 
Recipient shall, if the Association shall so request, prepare and furnish to the 
Association promptly upon completion of the Activity a report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, on the results and impact of the Activity.
2.3.
The Recipient shall make available to EPBiH the proceeds of the Grant for 
purposes of carrying out the Activity. 
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods required 
for the carrying out of the Activity and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and that any 
indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or 
repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the 
Activity are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as 
needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the 
Association on its books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be 
withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 
4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required for the 
Activity and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activity:
Amount of the
   % of
Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Item
(in United States dollar) to be Financed
Goods
4,410,000
100% of foreign expen- 
ditures, 100% of 
local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 
85% of 
local 
expenditures for 
other items
procured locally
TOTAL
4,410,000
For purposes of this paragraph, the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Recipient for goods 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Recipient, and the 
term "local expenditures" means any expenditures that are not foreign expenditures, 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods are supplied, expenditures in such currency 
for such goods shall be deemed to be foreign expenditures.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by the Association; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied 
by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Association or for goods 
Page  3
produced in such territories; (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the Association’s 
knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or (v) after August 31, 1998 
or such later date as the Association shall establish by written notice to the 
Recipient (the Closing Date), except that withdrawals may be made for expenditures 
incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding application is received by the 
Association within four (4) months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount 
of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the Association a written application for withdrawal of such 
amount in the form specified by the Association.  Withdrawal applications shall be: 
(a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic 
Relations or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) 
be accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as the Association shall 
reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to 
sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first application bearing his 
or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and its 
supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the 
Association that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant 
Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activity.  The 
Association shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account 
only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods estimated to cost less 
than $1,000,000, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  The Association, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the 
Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant 
Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of 
this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, 
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Association.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activity, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in United States dollar a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Activity of the departments 
or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Activity or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the 
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six (6)  months after 
the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said records and accounts 
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
the Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such 
records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) 
Page  4
above and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can 
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Association may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right 
of the Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the 
following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to 
comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the 
Recipient, or any other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement 
with the Association shall have been suspended.
6.2.
The Association may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of 
the Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time 
after the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have 
been suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the 
Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Association, within 
six (6) months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activity.
Attachment I 
Procurement
Procurement of Goods and Works
Except as provided in Parts A, B, and C hereof, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those 
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 
1996 (the Guidelines).
Part A:
Limited International Bidding
Goods: (i) estimated to cost less than $2,500,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent; or (ii) which the Association 
agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the 
cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.  In addition, the list of suppliers 
shall be derived from, inter alia, the expressions of interest received in response to 
the General Procurement Notice.
Part B:
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost up to $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature or must be procured from a particular 
supplier as a condition of a performance guarantee, may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  5
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract procured under Part A and Part C of this Schedule, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 Section I, to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible item" means the item set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods required for the Activity and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for 
a deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account under the 
eligible item, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
Page  6
the period of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the 
Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
