Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER
2903
BOS
Project Agreement
(Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project)
 
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
RUDNICI UGLJA TUZLA
Dated July
31, 1996
 
CREDIT NUMBER
2903
BOS
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July
31, 1996, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION
(the Association) and RUDNICI UGLJA TUZLA (RUT).
 
WHEREAS
(A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Bosnia and Herzegovina
(the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
four million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 24,900,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that RUT agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and RUT, a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development
Credit Agreement will be relent to RUT on the terms and conditions set forth in the
RUT Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS RUT, in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I
Definition
Section
1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
Page  2
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section
2.01. RUT declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule
2
to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall
carry out Part E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, and mining practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for Part E of the Project.
Section
2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part E of the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule
3
to the Credit Agreement.
 
Section
2.03. (a) RUT shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and Part E of the Project. 
 
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, RUT shall:
 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than six
(6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the
future operation of Part E of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
 
Section
2.04. RUT shall duly perform all its obligations under the RUT 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, RUT shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the RUT Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
 
Section
2.05. (a) RUT shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part E of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the RUT Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
 
(b)
RUT shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part E of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by RUT of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the RUT Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
 
Section
2.06. RUT shall, by October 31, 1996, appoint, until completion of the 
Project, a project manager with qualifications and experience, satisfactory to the
Association, to supervise implementation of Part E of the Project. The said project 
manager shall only be replaced by RUT either at the request of or with the prior
written consent of the Association.
 
Section
2.07. RUT shall use the proceeds of the RUT Subsidiary Loan exclusively 
for the rehabilitation of the Sikulje and Dubrave lignite mines and such other mines,
as may be required, in the judgment of the Association, to obtain the necessary
quality of coal for the Tuzla Power Station under Part A.2(a)(i) of the Project; and 
(b) by October 31, 1996, enter into a contract with EPBiH for the supply of coal to 
the said Tuzla Power Station, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
 
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of RUT
Section
3.01. RUT shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and mining practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
Page  3
Section
3.02. RUT shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and mining practices.
 
Section
3.03. RUT shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section
4.01. (a) RUT shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
 
(b)
RUT shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four
(4) months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as 
so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section
5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
 
Section
5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
RUT thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
 
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify RUT of this event.
 
Section
5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General
Conditions.
 
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section
6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
Page  4
request
.
The addresses so specified are
:
For the Association:
 
International Development Association
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423
(RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688
(TRT)
 
For RUT:
 
Rudnici Uglja-Tuzla
7500
Tuzla
A. Herljevica s18
 
Section
6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of RUT, or by RUT
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or
executed by the General Manager or such other person or persons as the General Manager
shall designate in writing, and RUT shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
 
Section
6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/ Christine Wallich
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
RUDNICI UGLJA TUZLA
By
/s/ Sven Alkalaj
Authorized Representative
