Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2903 BOS
Project Agreement
(Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ELEKTROPRIVREDA BOSNE I HERCEGOVINE
Dated July 31, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2903 BOS
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1996, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and ELEKTROPRIVREDA BOSNE I HERCEGOVINE (EPBiH).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty 
four million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 24,900,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that EPBiH agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
By a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and EPBiH, a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be relent to EPBiH on the terms and conditions set forth in 
EPBiH Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS EPBiH, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definition
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Page  2
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. EPBiH declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Parts A, B, C, D, F, and G.1 of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
and power utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Parts A, B, 
C, D, F, and G.1 of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for Parts A, B, C, D, F, and G.1 
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed 
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) EPBiH shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and Parts A, B, C, D, F, and G.1 of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, EPBiH shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the 
future operation of Parts A, B, C, D, F, and G.1 of the Project; 
and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 2.04. EPBiH shall duly perform all its obligations under the EPBiH 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, EPBiH 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the EPBiH Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) EPBiH shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts A, B, C, D, F, and G.1 of 
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
EPBiH Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Credit.
(b)
EPBiH shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A, B, C, D, F, and G.1 
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance 
by EPBiH of its obligations under this Agreement and under the EPBiH Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement.
Section 2.06. EPBiH shall establish, and until completion of the Project, 
maintain a Project Implementation Unit, within EPBiH, with adequate staff, funds, 
facilities and other resources  reasonably required to carry out Parts A, B, C, D, F 
and G.1 of the Project in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.07. EPBiH shall carry out the environmental action plan, agreed with 
the Association, in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.08. EPBiH shall, by October 31, 1996, enter into a contract with RUT 
for the supply of coal to the Tuzla Power Station, under Part A.2 (a) (i) of the 
Project, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EPBiH
Section 3.01. EPBiH shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and power utility 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
Page  3
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. EPBiH shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and power utility practices.
Section 3.03. EPBiH shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) EPBiH shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
EPBiH shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four (4) months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as 
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) EPBiH shall put into effect a billing and collection system 
resulting in the collection from its customers of at least sixty percent (60%), ninety 
percent (90%), and one-hundred percent (100%) of the total current cash operating 
expenses of EPBiH in calendar year 1996, 1997 and 1998, respectively. For the purposes 
of this paragraph, the term "total current cash operating expenses" means all expenses 
related to operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes but excluding depreciation and interest and other charges on 
debt.
(b)
Before June 30 in each of its fiscal year commencing in 1997, EPBiH 
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by EPBiH and satisfactory to the 
Association, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) 
in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the 
Association the results of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that EPBiH would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for EPBiH's fiscal years covered by such review, EPBiH shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
EPBiH thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
Page  4
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify EPBiH of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For EPBiH:
7100m Sarajevo
Zmaj od Bosnia 20
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of EPBiH, or by 
EPBiH on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken 
or executed by the General Manager or such other person or persons as the General 
Manager shall designate in writing, and EPBiH shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Christine Wallich
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
ELEKTROPRIVREDA BOSNE I HERCEGOVINE
Page  5
By /s/ Sven Alkalaj
Authorized Representative
