Document of                     _
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 120 7-c-PH
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT IN THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
February 10, 1977
Education Projects Division
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1.00        =     Pesos 7.499
Pesos 1,000    =     US$133.35
MEASURES
1 m 2                 1.09 yd
1 m22          =      10.76 sq ft
1 km2          =      0.38 sq mi
1 ha           =      2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



PHILIPPINES                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS    ................... .   ...................  i - xii
I.   AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY AND IMPLICATIONS
FOR EDUCATION AND TRAINING ...........................              1
Development Pattern and Strategy ....           ..............   1
Implications for Education and Training:
Manpower Resources ..............................             2
II.   AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING ....................               6
Overview ..........................................             6
Agricultural Education System ...................             7
Forestry Education ..............................             9
Animal Science Education .....           ...................    10
Veterinary Education ............. .. .......    11
Regional Agricultnral Education in Visayas    ......    12
Non-Formal Agricultural Training ........ ........    14
Education Financing ......................                   15
Assessment of  Government Policies and Programs ...            15
Bank Lending Strategy in Education .            ...............    17
III.   THE PROJECT             ............................................    18
Objectives and Scope ..           ............................    18
Project Components ...        .............................    19
UPLB /1  College of Forestry ....          .............    19
UPLB Department of Animal Science ....         ........    20
UP College of Veterinary Medicine .          ...........    21
Staff Development at the UPLB    . ...............    21
Visayas State College of Agriculture .... .....    23
Philippine Training Centers for Rural
Development ................................    24
Project Management Support .....          ..............    27
Feasibility and Industrial Policy Studies ....            28
Monitoring and Evaluation ...................             28
/1   UPLB:  University of the Philippines (UP) at Los Banos.
Thi document has a rtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oflkicl dutier. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
2-
Page No.
IV.   PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS   29
Cost of the Project ............... .                      29
Project Financing .       . ..................... . .    33
Implementation .       .........................34
Disbursements .........................o.o.                36
V.   BENEFITS AND RISKS .....................................        37
Benefits ......................... .................    37
Risks .. ............... .........                         38
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........ - .......    39
VII.   RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECiT FILE    40
ANNEXES:
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   General Agricultural and Forestry
Manpower Demand/Supply - 1976-1985
3.   Livestock Sector Manpower Demand/Supply
1976-1985
4.   Agricultural Manpower Demand/Supply in the
Visayas - 1976-1985
5.   Total Expenditure on Education by Source,
1973-75
6.   Technical Panel for Agricultural Education -
Terms of Reference Dated January 10, 1977
7.   Project Institutions - Present and Projected
Enrollment/Output
8.   Technical Assistance Programs
9.   Summary of Project Costs by Project Items
10.   Implementation Schedule
11.   Disbursements Schedule
CHARTS
1.   Education Pyramid, 1975 - World Bank 16904
2.   Structure of the Formal System of Education
- World Bank 16905
3.   Organization Chart of EDPITAF - World Bank 16872
MAP
Location of Project Institutions
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited the Philip-
pines during January/February 1976, composed of Messrs. M.H. You (economist
and mission leader), O.P. Gautam (agricultural educator), S. Sigurdsson
(architect), Miss R. Johnson (Y.P. economist), Messrs. K. Hansson (agricul-
tural extension - consultant), J. Marr (fisheries - consultant), G. McClymont
(veterinary medicine/animal science - consultant), and H. Hilmi (FAO -
consultant) who joined the mission during the final ten days.



APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT IN
THE PHILIPPINES
BASIC DATA (1974)
Population
Estimated total                               41.4 million
Annual growth rate                             3.0%
Average density                              140 per km2
Rural Population
Estimated total                                30.0 million
Percentage of total population                 71%
Number of farming households                    2.3 million
Engaged in farming                             19.5 million
Engaged in fishing and forestry                 1.9 million
Other rural activities                          8.6 million
Rural Elementary School Enrollment
Aged 7-12                                        100%
Agricultural Secondary Enrollment
as Percentage of Total Secondary
Enrollment                                         2%
Agricultural College Enrollment
as Percentage of Total College
Enrollment                                         4%
Expenclitures on Education by Source
US$ Million         %
National government                            268             67
Local government                                38             10
Student fees                                    93             23
399            100
Total National Government Expenditure
for Education as a Percentage of
Total Government Expenditure                       11.6%
Total Public and Private Education
Expenditure as a Percentage of GNP                  2.8%






GLOSSARY
BAEx             -   Bureau of Agricultural Extension
BAI              -   Bureau of Animal Industry
BFD              -   Bureau of Forest Development
BPI              -   Bureau of Plant Industry
CLSU             -   Central Luzon State University
CMU              -   Central Mindanao University
DAR               -   Department of Agrarian Reform
DEC              -   Department of Education and Culture
DLGCD             -   Department of Local Government and Community
Development
EDPITA'F         -   Educational Development Projects Implementing
Task Force
FORI             -   Forest Research Institute
NEDA              -   National Economic Development Authority
NFAC              -   National Food and Agriculture Council
NGB               -   National Governing Board
NMIC              -   National Meat Inspection Commission
PCARR            -   Philippine Council for Agriculture and Resources
Research
PTC-RD           -   Philippine Training Centers for Rural Development
NTC            -       National Rural Training Center
RTC            -       Regional Rural Training Center
FTC            -       Farmer Training Center
RAC               -   Regional Advisory Council
UPCVM            -   University of the Philippines College of Veterinary
Medicine
UPLB             -   University of the Philippines at Los Banos
UPLB-CA          -   University of the Philippines at Los Banos,
College of Agriculture
UPLB-CF          -   University of the Philippines at Los Banos,
College of Forestry
UPLB-DAS         -   University of the Philippines at Los Banos,
Department of Animal Science
VISCA            -   Visayas State College of Agriculture






REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
The Role of Agricultural Education in the Philippines
1.        Agriculture is the predominant sector in the Philippines economy
accounting for approximately one-fourth of the gross national product, over
one-half of total employment and about three-quarters of export earnings.
Current Government investment programs in the agriculture sector emphasize:
(a) increased production of staple and commercial crops through expansion of
irrigation, increased use of fertilizer and other inputs, and improvement in
extension and other services to farmers; (b) development of forest resources
and wood products for export; and (c) increased production of livestock and
fisheries to reduce imports and raise local nutrition levels. A key con-
straint to the accomplishment of these goals is the serious lack of well
trained agricultural manpower. The agricultural education system has in
the past failed to respond adequately to requirements of employers for com-
petent specialists and has produced graduates who tend to be poorly trained
and ill-prepared for future employment. Although progress has been made in
improving some areas of higher agricultural education, better qualified
high-level specialists in veterinary medicine and both high and middle-level
specialists in forestry and animal science are required by Government agen-
cies and private industry. In-service training of existing field staff is
needed in support of the Government food production programs to increase
the effectiveness of the extension services. Existing inservice training
programs have proved inadequate in making up for the deficiencies of past
training of practicing extension workers. There are also not enough farmer
training programs to disseminate technology effectively. Such programs need
to be expanded and improved to complement the work of extension services and
to benefit many farmers not yet reached by the extension services.
Agricultural Education System
2.        Agricultural education constitutes a small portion of the total
education system in the Philippines. Enrollments, however, have increased
substantially over the past decade, and there has been a proliferation of
agricultural institutions. This rapid growth, accompanied by financial con-
straints and an inadequate number of well-trained teaching staff, has led
to instruction which is generally of low quality. As a result, graduates
at all levels tend to be poorly trained and have difficulty in qualifying
for employment in their respective fields. To respond more adequately to
development needs, the agricultural education system requires: (a) conso-
lidation to allow better allocation of resources to improve the quality of
selected institutions with high potential; (b) improvement of the quality
and relevance of technician training; and (c) creation of institutionalized
systems of rnonformal education.



- ii -
S.        At the higher level, enrollments have increased by almost eight
times from 4,000 in 1964 to about 31,000 in 1974; the number of graduates
has only increased by less than three times to about 3,000. There are cur-
rently 46 colleges giving degree courses in general agriculture, 18 in for-
estry, 21 in animal science, and 4 in veterinary medicine. Most of these
_Ts3tiutions share the common problems of curricula that are often outdated,
lack of well-qualified staff and insufficient facilities and equipment.
These problems, coupled with poor student preparation at the secondary level,
nonselective admissions policies, and high teacher-student ratios, have
generally resulted in low internal efficiency. Many graduates fail to meet
minimum requirements for employment as professionals in their fields. With-
in the agricultural education system, the University of the Philippines (UP)
offers the best quality instruction, and its graduates are preferred by the
public and private sectors. In particular, the Colleges of Agriculture and
Forestry and the Department of Animal Science at Los Banos, and the College
of Veterinary Medicine at Diliman are recognized as the chief sources of
qualified graduate-level manpower and technical advice in these areas. How-
ever, the UP College of Agriculture needs further staff development to
strengthen its graduate programs. The College of Forestry and Department of
Animal Science both require additional physical facilities and equipment and
improvements in staff quality. The UP College of Veterinary Medicine at
Diliman needs to be relocated at Los Banos where better physical facilities
and the needed closer physical and academic relationship with the Department
of Animal Science can be provided. Although strong regional agricultural
colleges are being established in Luzon and Mindanao, a similar regional
college needs to be developed in the Visayas, one of the most important and
poorest regions of the country. Higher education in the Visayas is offered
by eight institutions, most of which are substandard. Of the eight, the
Visayas State College of Agriculture (VISCA) has the highest potential for
development into a service-oriented regional college of agriculture. To
perform this role, however, VISCA needs staff development, physical facil-
ities, and equipment.
4.        At the post secondary level, 63 schools enroll about 4,000 and
graduate about 600 technicians each year in poultry or pig husbandry, farm
mechanics, and forestry. At present, no middle-level training is given
in animal disease and protection, but the Government plans to start such a
program in the near future. In general, most of the schools lack qualified
teachers, facilities and equipment, and both internal efficiency and output
are low. Originally conceived as terminal courses with emphasis on prac-
tical training, two-year diploma courses have largely become a means of
college entry for those who do not qualify for direct admissions.
5.        Systematic and coordinated programs for effective training of
extension workers and farmers have not yet been developed in the Philippines.
In-service training is currently conducted separately by about 15 employing
agencies. These courses (three days to nine months duration) are generally
on an ad hoc basis and have weak curricula and little follow-up to evaluate
effectiveness. There is little coordination between agencies; this tends to
result in duplication of efforts. Four residential farmer training centers,



- iii -
each experimenting with a different methodology, are in operation and seem
to be effective although results are still under study. Various agencies
are conducting nonresidential farmer training using demonstration farms and
radio programs. These training programs are designed to identify and develop
farmer leaders who, through the demonstration of better standards of crop
and animal husbandry on their own farms, would complement the efforts of
the extension services. On completion of the training program, they would
serve as village-level contacts for the extension service.
Government Strategy for Development of Agricultural Education
6.        The GoveLnment has developed a strategy for the rationalization
and improvement of agricultural education. Central to the strategy is the
Technical Panel for Agricultural Education in the Department of Education
and Culture which the Government set up in January 1977 to assist the
Secretary of Education in formulating overall policies and in coordinating
development plans in the subsector. One of the primary functions of the
Technical Panel is to assess agricultural institutions and to establish an
effective accreditation system as a basis for central budgetary allocations.
The goal is to phase out substandard schools and colleges and thereby allo-
cate scarce resources for the upgrading of selected agricultural institutions
with high potential. The Government has agreed to maintain the Technical
Panel with terms of reference and composition acceptable to the Bank; the
Panel would be assisted by a full time Secretariat which would be fully
staffed by March 31, 1978 (para 3.03). The organization of the agricul-
tural education system would be comprised of: (a) apex institutions at the
national level to serve as centers of excellence in the fields of agriculture,
forestry, fisheries, and animal sciences/veterinary medicine; (b) one agri-
cultural college with high standards in each of the three major regions
(Luzon, Mindanao, and Visayas), around which selected colleges and agricul-
tural high schools would be clustered to serve as vocational/technical
training or nonformal education centers; (c) experimental agricultural
high schools to improve the relevance of secondary education to rural needs;
(d) post secondary two-year technician training programs to provide practical
skills in various disciplines of agriculture to those not pursuing four-year
degrees; and (e) effective systems of training extension workers and farmer
leaders in support of food production programs.
Bank Lending Strategy for Development of Agricultural Education
7.        The Bank first began to support agricultural education in 1964,
when a loan of $6.0 million (Loan 393-PH) was made to assist in financing
the development program of the University of the Philippines at Los Banos-
College of Agriculture (UPLB-CA). Although the project was completed three
years behind schedule in May 1973 because of delays in the provision of
budgetary funds, substantial progress was made under the project in helping
UPLB-CA become a national center with excellence in agricultural education.
Further assistance is, however, needed for the UPLB staff development pro-
gram so that it can develop its forestry and animal sciences programs.



- iv -
These subjects did not receive assistance under the First Education Project
and have remained comparatively less developed. Under the Second Education
Project (Credit 349-PH, signed in 1973), development of the regional agricul-
tural colleges in Luzon and Mindanao began, and 13 experimental agricultural
high schools and 6 barrio development high schools were established as a step
toward increasing the relevance of secondary education through emphasis on
practical training. This project is being implemented successfully. The
Third Education Project (Loan 1224T-PH, dated April 8, 1976) for textbook
development for primary and secondary schools is progressing satisfactorily.
The proposed project is designed to help the Government implement its longer
term programs for the development of agricultural education.
8.        The lessons learned from implementation of the First Education
Project have been taken into account in the design of the proposed project:
(a) the Project Performance Audit Report (Sec. 75-516, July 30, 1975) had
reported that most of the buildings constructed under the project were too
scattered due to the desire of the University authorities to have the new
buildings near the then existing ones, and due to lack of adequate coordi-
nation between the various consultant architects. The report concluded that
a more integrated layout would have been less costly and would have allowed
greater efficiency in the future growth of the University. The proposed
project takes these points into account and the new construction at Los Banos
is planned in accordance with a recently adopted campus plan. Furthermore,
the proposed regional college for the Visayas has engaged a master planner
and consulting architects to prepare an integrated master campus plan and
physical plans; (b) the audit report also referred to the proliferation of
agricultural education, inadequate utilization of resources and low quality
of agricultural education. The Government has now established a Technical
Panel, referred to in paragraph 6 above, to help maintain educational stand-
ards of the existing institutions and to regulate the development of agri-
cultural education and training; and (c) in order for UPLB to improve its
staff retention, the above report advocates better incentives, mainly in
the form of further educational opportunities. The University has prepared
staff development programs, including post doctoral programs, to upgrade
staff quality and also to provide incentives for its staff to remain at
UPLB.
The Project
Objectives
9.        The main objective of the project is to increase the supply of
well-qualified agricultural manpower needed to implement important agricul-
tural development programs in crops, forestry, and livestock. The project
would assist in the implementation of the Government's education development
strategy in the following key areas: (a) strengthening staff development at
the University of the Philippines at Los Banos, particularly in the College
of Forestry and the Department of Animal Science; (b) establishing strong
centers of national excellence at Los Banos in forestry, animal science, and



veterinary medicine; (c) establishing a strong regional college of agricul-
ture in the Visayas, a region not covered by the second project; and
(d) creating a national system of in-service training for practicing agri-
cultural extension workers and other rural development staff and pilot pro-
grams designed to test various methods of training farmer leaders. The
project would help the Government achieve a better balance among disciplines
(agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry, and veterinary medicine), among
regions (Visayas, Luzon, and Mindanao), and between formal and nonformal
agricultural education.
Background
10.       The project proposal was prepared by the Government with the
assistance of UNESCO and appraised by a Bank mission during January/February
1976. A follow-up appraisal mission visited the Philippines in November 1976.
Negotiations were held in Washington in January 1977. The Philippine dele-
gation was led by His Excellency Eduardo Z. Romualdez, Ambassador to the
United States and the Honorable Juan L. Manuel, Secretary of the Department
of Education and Culture.
Project Description
11.       The proposed project would consist of:
(a) Civil works, procurement of furniture and equipment,
and the provision of technical assistance for the
College of Forestry and the Department of Animal
Science of the UPLB; the College of Veterinary Medicine
at Diliman, which will be moved to UPLB; the Visayas
State College of Agriculture; the Philippine Training
Centers for Rural Development (PTC-RD) (one national
and five regional training centers and six farmer
training centers); and
(b) Technical assistance: fellowships to strengthen the
technical and management capability of the staff of
(i) the Education Development Projects Implementing Task
Force (EDPITAF), (ii) the Secretariat of the National
Governing Board for PTC-RD, which will be responsible
for implementing an important part of the project, and
(iii) the Technical Panel in the Department of Education
and Culture; and specialist services to assist (i)
EDPITAF in carrying out feasiblity studies for future
education projects, and (ii) the Philippine Center
for Economic Development (PCED) in conducting industrial
policy studies.



- vi -
Pe '   g':~  Features of the Project
12.       University of the Philippines at Los Banos, College of Forestry
(UPL3-CF) (US3.2 million). 1/  The primary objective of the proposed project
component is to develop the UPLB-CF as a center of national excellence
fo- forestry education and training so as to ensure a continuous supply of
better trained foresters, wood scientists, and technologists needed by
Government agencies and private industry and to strengthen forestry research
programs. Assistance would be provided for improvement of physical facil-
ities and equipment, as well as for upgrading the staff through overseas
fellowship programs. The enrollment would increase from 415 to 890 by 1981.
Particular attention would be given to strengthening the newly established
Department of Wood Science and Technology because of its potential contri-
butions to the wood-processing industry. Some 30 additional staff required
for the planned enrollment increase would be recruited primarily from among
the College's own post-graduates.
13.       University of the Philippines at Los Banos, Department of Animal
Science (UPLB-DAS) (US$4.4 million). The proposed project would enable
the UPLB-DAS to increase the quantity and improve the quality of graduates
who are in high demand for government, private industry, teaching, and
research positions. As part of the Government's higher education develop-
ment strategy, the DAS would be upgraded as a national center. The pro-
posed project would provide physical facilities and equipment. The staff
and curricula would be strengthened through overseas training in fields
closely related to livestock development, such as reproductive physiology,
meat science, and animal by-products utilization. The UPLB-DAS will be
closely linked physically and functionally with the relocated College of
Veterinary Medicine (UPCVM). The proposed component will enable DAS to
increase the enrollment from 200 to 390 by 1981 and to expand its function
of teaching students from other faculties of UPLB from about 1,000 to 2,000
students.
14.       University of the Philippines, College of Veterinary Medicine
(UPCVM) (US$3.9 million). The project would provide for a planned reloca-
tion of the UPCVM from Diliman campus near Manila to Los Banos and provide
for expansion of enrollment and improvement in the quality of teaching,
research, and extension programs of the UPCVM. The Government strategy
to upgrade the UPCVM as a national center would be supported through the
proposed provision of physical facilities which would be closely related
to the facilities and equipment being provided for UPLB-DAS, Overseas
fellowships and specialists' services would be provided to assist in staff
development. The enrollment would be increased from 260 to 400 by 1981.
The 15 additional staff members required for the expansion would be recruited
mostly from the College's own post-graduate program. A two-year animal
science technician training program for 220 students would be established
jointly by the relocated UPCVM and the UPLB-DAS.
I/ Figures in parentheses are the estimated total cost of the individual
components, net of contingencies.



- vii -
15.       Staff Development at the UPLB (US$2.5 million).  As indicated in
the preceding paragraphs, the proposed project would make substantial pro-
vision for strengthening staff capability in teaching, research, and exten-
sion. Staff development is a major aspect of the UPLB's long-term develop-
ment plan emphasizing expansion and quality improvement of graduate training
programs in development-oriented fields. This would reduce dependency on
foreign training in the future, particularly at the doctorate level, and
would further reinforce the role of the UPLB as the major source of trained
agricultural manpower and technical advice to other colleges and government
agencies.  The proposed project would finance a total of about 200 man-years
cf overseas fellowships for UPLB staff in fields of specialization for which
training is not presently offered in the Philippines. In order to help en-
sure that the foreign fellowship training is relevant to Philippine cir-
cumstances, wherever possible, the fellows would be encouraged to return
to UPLB to do thesis research after completion of the necessary classwork
abroad. Government regulations stipulate that, after completing their doc-
toral degrees, each fellowship recipient must teach at the U-niver-siLy for
a period equivalent to two and one half times the man-years the recipient
spent abroad.  The Government had agreed to provide local fellowships for
about 220 UP:LB teachers for doctoral and master degree studies in the
Philippines (para 3.13). The proposed staff development program, including
local fellowships, would raise the proportion of doctoral degree holders
from 26% at present to about 40% by 1981. In particular, it would enable
the University to commence teaching in new fields important to agricultural
development in the Philippines, e.g., wood engineering and forest products
utilization, hydrogeology, post-harvest physiology, biophysics, ecology,
and aerial photogrammetry.
16.       Visayas State College of Agriculture (VISCA) (US$12.7 million).
The main objectives of the proposed assistance to VISCA located in Baybay,
Leyte, are to: (a) develop VISCA into a regional center of excellence in
agricultural education, research, and extension; (b) train competent agri-
cultural specialists, teachers, technicians and extension workers to meet
regional requirements; (c) promote research activity and the development of
extension methodology appropriate for the region; and (d) enable VISCA to
disseminate research results and new technology through extension training,
radio programs, and publications. The proposed project would help finance
necessary physical facilities, equipment, and overseas fellowships (85 man-
years) and specialists' services (4 man-years) for curriculum developmenlt.
Under the project, enrollment would increase from 950 to 1,500 students.
To support the planned increases in enrollment, research and extension
activities, the number of staff would need to be increased from 135 to 200.
To help ensure that VISCA develops an adequately trained teaching staff, the
Government would train about 25 teachers of VISCA in domestic PhD programs
and 70 in domestic masters programs. The majority of this staff would be
trained at UPLB. During the project implementation period, VISCA would
submit its annual development program to the Bank for comments and would
obtain the approval of the Technical Panel for Agricultural Education before
new fields of study are added or its enrollment is expanded beyond 1,500
students (para 3.17). This would help ensure the orderly and rational
development of VISCA's program.



- viii -
17.       Philippine Training Centers for Rural Development (PTC-RD) (US$6.3
million). The proposed investment in PTC-RD would enable the Government to
develop a national system for in-service training of field extension workers
and farmer leaders in support of the national food production and rural de-
velopment programs. Under the project, a National Training Center (NTC)
(US$1.0 million), five Regional Training Centers (RTCs) (US$2.5 million),
and six Farmer Training Centers (FTCs) (US$2.0 million), would be constructed
and equipped. The NTC would develop training programs and materials for the
RTCs, train staff and evaluate programs. The functions of the RTCs, to be
established at five agricultural colleges in key areas, would be to (a) de-
velop training courses to meet local needs, (b) provide in-service training
to field staff involved in rural development work, and (c) to supply feed-
back for research on agriculture and other problems encountered in the rural
development process. The in-service training would be for about 450 rural
development workers per course or about 3,600 a year. By 1981, about 70%
of the estimated total number of workers would have been trained by the five
RTCs. Courses, which would last about one month, would be designed to meet
the specific needs of each region and participating Government agencies.
Programs would cover crop production, animal breeding and husbandry, plant
protection and rural communications. About 60% of the trainees would be
extension workers from the Department of Agriculture. The balance of
trainees would come from the Departments of Natural Resources, Agrarian Re-
form and Local Government and Community Development. The 40 trainers re-
quired would be selected from senior line agency staff with field experience.
18.       The main objective of the FTCs is to assist the Government in
developing a pilot scheme for training farmer leaders through short courses
on agricultural technology and management, aimed at achieving increased food
production and rural incomes. Courses, which will be of about a week's dura-
tion, will be commodity-oriented, would teach up-to-date farm production
technology, and would concentrate on communication skills and managerial as-
pects of agricultural and rural development programs. A total of 45,000
farmer leaders would be trained at the FTCs during the five-year implement-
ation. On their return to the villages, these farmer leaders, with assistance
from local extension agents and FTC staff, would establish demonstration farm
plots and train farmers from the surrounding areas, thus multiplying benefits
of the training. Bank financing would be provided for simple physical facil-
ities and equipment, mainly at existing demonstration stations operated by
the Department of Agriculture. The trainers needed would be recruited mainly
from the Department of Agriculture and would be given necessary training at
the proposed NTC. If the proposed pilot scheme is successful, the Govern-
ment plans eventually to establish an FTC in each of the 73 provinces in the
Philippines. The project would also provide equipment and materials (US$0.8
million) to the Bureau of Agricultural Extension units in the service areas
of the six FTCs to facilitate back-up support by extension personnel to FTC-
trained farmer leaders and to establish a mode of extension service operations
that takes fullest advantage of the village-level contacts established through
the farmer leader training. The National Governing Board (NGB), which includes
representatives of the agencies concerned with agriculture and rural develop-
ment, would be responsible for policy and program formulation for the National,



- ix -
Regional and Farmer Training Centers. The NGB would send to the Bank for
comments its annual operational plans for the different training centers
(para 3.27).
19.       Project Management Support (US$0.1 million).  Seven man-years of
fellowships and study tours would be financed under the project to strengthen
staff capability of the Rural Development Section of the Education Implement-
ing Task Force (EDPITAF), the project implementation unit. The objective is
to develop a core of staff capable of formulating and executing plans in
agricultural and rural education and training. Two man-years of fellowships
would also be provided to strengthen the staff capability of the Technical
Panel for Agricultural Education.
20.       Feasibility and Industrial Policy Studies ($USO.4 million).  Four
and one half years of advisory services would be financed to assist EDPITAF in
carrying out feasibility studies for a number of future development projects.
At the recquest of the Government and as a part of its efforts to improve its
research capabilities in economic policy areas, two years of advisory services
would be f'inanced to assist the Philippine Center of Economic Development in
conducting a workshop and studies on industrial policy.
Project Cost and Financing
21.       The total project cost is estimated at US$45.3 million equivalent.
This includes a physical contingency of 7% of base cost estimates and an
overall price contingency amounting to about 27% of project costs (including
physical contingency) to take into account the expected rates of international
and domestic inflation. Base costs per man-year of specialists' services and
overseas f'ellowships are based on the following: US$55,000 for specialists;
US$15,000 for study tour; US$12,000 for doctoral fellowships; and US$10,000
for masters' degree fellowships. The proposed loan would finance the foreign
exchange component of the project, estimated at US$25.0 million, or 55% of the
total project cost. The balance would be financed from Government budgetary
resources. Expenditures for professional services and fellowships incurred
after May 1, 1976 are recommended for retroactive financing up to a maximum of
US$450,000; these expenditures were necessary to ensure the timely preparation
of the project and to initiate the staff development program.
Project Implementation
22.       The project implementing unit, EDPITAF, in the Department of Educa-
tion and Culture, currently in charge of implementing the Second and Third
Education Projects, would be responsible for project administration, procure-
ment, financial control and liaison with the Bank. The teaching programs of
the National and Regional Training Centers and the Farmer Training Centers
would be the responsibility of a Secretariat of the National Governing Board
in the Department of Agriculture. Key staff of the Secretariat have been
appointed and prospective trainers for regional rural training and farmer
training centers have been selected and given a two-week orientation training.



x
Spe^f-iz cra±ning programs for extension workers and farmer leaders and bud-
ge--^y arrangements have also been worked out. A master plan for VISCA and
sketch plans for all other project institutions have been prepared. Design
a---d suDervis`on of civil works for VISCA and the University of the Philippines
are being carried out by local consultants, assisted in the case of VISCA by
a fc-r-e-n campus planner.  The architectural division of EDPITAF has prepared
sketch designs for the Philippine Training Centers for Rural Development.
Satisfactory sites have already been acquired for all project institutions.
A Fellowships Committee has been established and selection criteria and proce-
dures for awarding fellowships have been formulated.
Monitoring and Evaluation
23.       The Government would establish a monitoring and evaluation system
for all the project components. This will ensure that data essential to
the project execution are provided to the project managers. The University
of the Philippines and Visayas State College of Agriculture components will
be monitored by the project implementation unit, and the Philippine Training
Centers for Rural Development will be monitored by the Secretariat of NGB
in the Department of Agriculture (para. 3.31). The Government would also
prepare a report providing its assessment of the project and the lessons
learned during the project implementation, within three months after the
Closing Date (para. 3.31).
Procurement and Disbursements
24.       Major contracts for civil works, furniture, and equipment with an
estimated total cost of US$30.0 million would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
In the evaluation of bids for equipment and furniture, qualified local manu-
facturers would be given a preference of 15% or the level of customs duties,
whichever is less. Contracts for civil works, estimated to cost less than
US$700,000 each, with an estimated total cost of about US$5.5 million, and
contracts for furniture and equipment, estimated to cost less than US$50,000
each, and with an estimated total cost of about US$2.0 million, would not be
suitable for international competitive bidding. These civil works contracts
would be distributed widely throughout the country and phased over time, and
the furniture contracts are small and could not be easily aggregated into
larger bid packages. These contracts would therefore be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with Government pro-
cedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Foreign bidders would be allowed
to participate. Furniture for VISCA, estimated to cost US$200,000, would be
produced by the College's own maintenance and production workshop, which is
currently producing inexpensive furniture of acceptable quality. In addition,
miscellaneous items, in contracts not exceeding US$10,000 equivalent, subject
to a 11mit of US$250,000 equivalent in the aggregate, could be purchased on
the basis of acceptable local procedures that would involve solicitation of a
minimum of three price quotations. Books (estimated value US$300,000) would
be procured directly from authorized distributors after negotiations for bulk
purchases.



xi -
27        Tn`he proposed loan would be disbursed on the basis of:  (a) 33% of
total expenditures on civil works and furniture; (b) 50% of total expenditures
on consult.ing services for master planning and architectural designs; (c) 100%
of.woreign expenditures for directly imported goods and on the ex-factory
price of locally manufactured goods, or 65% of expenditures on goods which
az~ m-o-~ted but procured locally; and (d) 100% of expenditures on technical
assistance.
Pi-cject Benefits
26.       The project is designed to provide for the strengthening of agricul-
tural education institutions and to bring about a significant improvement in
the quality of agricultural education and training. It would thereby help
the Government to meet the manpower requirements of the agricultural sector
and to reaLize its objective of increasing agricultural production. Assist-
ance for facilities, equipment, and staff development in agriculture, forestry,
animal science, and veterinary medicine is expected to result in greater num-
bers of graduates who qualify for professional occupations in their respective
fields. The proposed assistance to the Visayas State College of Agriculture
would provide a third major region of the Philippines with a strong agricul-
tural college to supply manpower and technical assistance for regional develop-
ment. With the assistance to be provided under the project the institutions
involved will provide the following percentages of the projected annual
national manpower needs between 1976 and 1985: the College of Forestry, 25%;
the College of Veterinary Medicine, 60%; the Department of Animal Science,
40%; and V:[SCA, 20% of the regional agricultural manpower needs. Even with
the project, there would still be sizable manpower deficits. These are the
inevitable result of the time lag involved in increasing the output of well-
trained graduates. The project, however, has been geared to the maximum
feasible rate of expansion, taking into account the urgent need for quality
improvement.
27.       The proposed project would also help establish institutions for
nonformal agricultural education. By 1981, the proposed Rural Training
Centers would provide in-service training to about 3,600 rural field workers
annually. This is expected to afford practically all 2.3 million farm
families access to well-trained extension workers by 1985. The proposed
Farmer Training Centers, are expected to help the Government develop effective
farmer traLning programs which would help expand the effective use of the
high-yield:ing crop varieties, fertilizers, pesticides, credit, and marketing.
Every farmer leader trained directly would be expected to impart knowledge
and skills learned to 10 farmers in his village and, in all, about 450,000
farmers would benefit from the farmer leader training programs in a five-year
period.
Conclusion and Recommendations
28.       The project is designed to support the Government's program of
developing education and training to increase agricultural production. Rea-
lization of- the full benefits of the proposed project will depend on effec-
tive Goverinment actions in a number of areas: (a) It is important that the



- xii -
Technical Panel for Agricultural Education and its Secretariat (para. 3.03)
develop into an effective institution by rapidly improving its staff capa-
bility and successfully fulfilling its responsibilities for implementing an
effective system of accrediting agricultural education institutions. (b) In
order to make effective use of better trained agricultural graduates, it will
be necessary for the Government to improve the salaries and organization of
Government agencies concerned with increasing agricultural production. The
Government is studying the issue of civil service salaries and has initiated
a review of the agriculture extension system. In this connection the Govern-
ment has requested the Bank to send a mission to the Philippines to review
their agricultural extension system and to make recommendations for its im-
provement; the mission is scheduled for April. (c) The success of the non-
formal training components will depend on active participation by the user
agencies in program development and evaluation of results. The organizational
arrangements for these components have been designed to help ensure appropriate
coordination and participation of the agencies concerned. Bank staff will
closely monitor developments on these matters. Although some risks relating
to (a), (b) and (c) in this paragraph are involved, the benefits of the proj-
ect are substantial and, with the conditions proposed, the project can be
expected to make a significant contribution to the development of the
Philippines.



I. AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY AND
IMPLICATIONS FOR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Development Pattern and Strategy
1L01      Overview.  The current Four-Year Development Plan (FY74-77) of
the Republic of the Philippines is aimed at raising the GNP growth rate
to about 7% per year in real terms and increasing the rate of employment
creation to over 4% per year. The strategy to accomplish this includes:
(a) greater emphasis on rural-agricultural development; (b) increased
industrial export production based on more labor-intensive products; (c)
rapid expansion of public investment; and (d) reliance on the private
sector as the main instrument of economic growth. Ten-year (1976-85) and
25-year (1976-2000) plans are currently being formulated.
1.02      Agricultural Sector.  The agricultural sector accounted for 30%
of Net Domestic Product and 69% of total exports in 1974, and employed 7.5
million people, 54% of total national employment. The main objectives for
development of this sector are: (a) self-sufficiency in food and food pro-
ducts; (b) development of forest resources; (c) expansion of exports and
import substitutes; (d) acceleration of land transfer and distribution;
(e) improvement of rural infrastructure; and (f) coordination of research
under the Philippine Council for Agriculture Resources and Research (PCARR).
Increased agricultural productivity is intended to alleviate inequalities in
income distribution by raising rural incomes. In 1971, the lower 40% of the
population (90% of which lived in rural areas) received 13% of total national
income wrhile the top 20% of families received 51%. Average annual income of a
rural family was p 4,400 in 1971, about 75% of the national average. Although
open unemployment in rural areas is about 4%, underemployment is as high as
30%. Owm,ership of land has traditionally been concentrated in the hands of a
small minority. Since 1972, however, the Government has given agrarian re-
form high priority in development efforts.
1.03      Crops.  Food and export crops contribute annually about 60% of value
added in agriculture and 50% of total export earnings. The principal goals
for these commodities under the FY74-77 Plan are: (a) self-sufficiency in
staple food crops and feedgrains; and (b) expansion of export crops. Country-
wide production programs, under the direction of the National Food and Agri-
culture Council (NFAC), concentrate on land-use intensification and provide:
(a) improvement of irrigation systems; (b) transfer of technology through
extension services; (c) seasonal credit for physical inputs and land pre-
paratioti; (d) supply of high-yield variety (HYV) seeds; (e) fertilizer
subsidies; and (f) applied research. The major food crop production programs
are Masagana 99 (rice) and Masaganang Maison (corn and feedgrains). Begun in
1973 and 1974, respectively, these two programs have made some progress
(particularly Masagana 99), but have been impeded by lack of qualified exten-
sion staff, inclement weather, shortage of seed, and inadequate market outlets.
Effectiveness of the programs has also been reduced by the present approach
to extension which tends to lack effective management and coordination be-
tween participating agencies.  Investment and research programs are being



-2-
formulated to increase the productivity of export crops, particularly the
largest earner, coconut and its products. In support of increased agricultural
output, infrastructure programs have received the bulk of capital investment
in the rural sector, especially for irrigation and drainage.
1.04      Forestry.  Natural forests cover about 60% of total Philippine land
area, and timber and wood products have accounted for an average of 20% of
total annual export earnings since 1968. In 1975, the Revised Forestry
Reform Code was introduced with emphasis on: (a) acceleration of land survey
and classification; (b) protection, development and rehabilitation of forest
lands; (c) rationalization and expansion of the wood processing industry; and
(d) strengthening of forest research. The Code includes a ban on the exporta-
tion of logs which is intended to foster the development of local wood process-
ing industries. Targeted originally to go into full effect on January 1, 1976,
it is expected that partial exportation will continue indefinitely until pro-
cessing capacity and qualified manpower are increased sufficiently to utilize
total log output of the forests. Conservation of forest resources will be
pursued under the National Integrated Reforestation and Tree Planting Program.
Contributions to this program are expected to come from both private industry
and the Bureau of Forest Development through establishment of industrial
plantations and increased classification and supervision of forest areas,
respectively. Forestry research activities have been intensified with the
establishment of the Forest Research Institute in 1974.
1.05      Livestock.  Under the FY74-77 Plan, emphasis in the livestock sub-
sector is on increased production to meet domestic consumption and nutrition
requirements and to reduce reliance on imports. The country is nearing self-
sufficiency in poultry, pork, and eggs, but production is far below needs in
beef, milk, and carabeef from water buffalos or carabaos, the chief source
of farm power. Improved support services are to be provided to producers
through the upgrading of: (a) the Bureau of Animal Industry (BAI) extension
and technical services; (b) marketing facilities and channels; and (c) slaughter-
houses and meat inspection services. The provision of liberal credit to produ-
cers is an important component of development strategy. The World Bank first
(1972) and second (1976) livestock development projects are the main source of
loan funds which are administered by the Development Bank of the Philippines.
A nationwide Livestock and Poultry Intensified Production Program was adopted
in mid-1974 and a Ten Year National Beef Carabeef Development Program is being
formulated.
Implications for Education and Training: Manpower Resources
1.06      One of the impediments to the success of the Government development
programs outlined above is the shortage of quality high and middle-level agri-
cultural manpower in government, private industry, education, and research.
This shortage is exemplified by the existence of vacancies in both the public
and private sectors despite the fact that many agricultural graduates do not
find employment in their field of training. The agricultural education system
has failed to respond adequately to the requirements of employers for quality
specialists and has, instead, produced graduates who are largely poorly trained



- 3 -
c.ad 1c3 no0 meet minimum requirements for employment as professionals in agri-
culiure. Summarized below are the estimated ten-year (1976-85) demand for
graduates and the projected output of the agricultural education system.
Demand estimates were based on manpower surveys conducted by educational
institutions, government agencies, and representatives of the private sector.
Data u&_;^e adjusted to reflect effective employment opportunities for gra-
duates, taking into consideration possible growth rates of each subsector in
accordance with past performance and future investment priorities.
Annual Agricultural Manpower Demand/Supply 1976-85 /a
/a            lb
Additional Require-       Projected/
ments-Expansion &         Level of   Surplus/
Degree/Diploma                        Replacements         Output 1985  (Deficit)
B.S. Forestry                               170                 75         (95)
B.S. Forest Products Engineering             50                 20         (30)
Forest Ranger                               280                 60        (220)
Forest Products Technician                  100                 60         (40)
B.S. Animal Science                         560                n.a.         n.a.
Animal Science Technician                   230                100        (130)
Doctor of Veterinary Medicine                90                 85          (5)
/a   Annual average, 1976-85: See Annexes 2 and 3 for details and the Project
File for sensitivity analysis.
/b   Total projected number of graduates in 1985, including those from sub-
standard institutions.
1.07      Crops.  The lack of quality trained extension manpower is a major
constraint to the progress of the government food production programs. To-
gether, the Bureau of Agricultural Extension (BAEx), Bureau of Plant Industry
(BPI) and Bureau of Soils employ about 8,700 professionals in crop-related
extension work, the majority of whom are assigned to the priority programs
Masagana 99 (5,700) and Masaganang Maison (1,500). Though Department of
Agriculture policy limits hiring to four-year degree holders and 95% of those
employed have a B.S.A., only about 6% of these have been trained in agricul-
tural extension and another 4% in agricultural education. Many are also gra-
duates of substandard agricultural colleges (para. 2.04) because better qua-
lity graduates from schools such as the University of the Philippines at Los
Banos (UPLB) are attracted to private industry by higher salaries and incen-
tives. In-service training is needed, therefore, to upgrade the skills, and
thereby increase the effectiveness of the existing extension force.
1.08      Forestry.  The Bureau of Forest Development (BFD) has been consis-
tently undermanned, seriously limiting its ability to manage effectively the
country's 17 million ha public forest. At present, of 2,230 approved middle
and high-level positions, only about 1,100 are filled due to lack of available



- 4 -
trained manpower, coupled with lower salary scales than offered by private
industry. As the Revised Forestry Reform Code becomes more fully imple-
mented, the BFD would require an estimated additional 1,200 rangers and
1,200 B.S. Forestry (B.S.F.) graduates between 1976-85. The private sector
in forestry, composed of logging and processing, is also seriously undermanned.
The 422 timber licensees who hold utilization contracts covering 60% of total
forest lands, employ only about 150 rangers and 100 foresters. The required
level of staffing for licensed areas, particularly in view of new emphasis on
reforestation and conservation, is estimatd to be 1,600 rangers and 540 for-
esters (see Annex 1). Growth of the wood processing industry (750 firms), has
been slow in the past, largely due to the predominant exportation rather than
processing of log output, coupled with the lack of technical and managerial
personnel. No program of specialization in forest products utilization has
been available in the nation's forestry schools until recently, and positions
have been filled by non-forestry engineering graduates. The demand for spe-
cialized middle and high-level manpower is projected to be great (Annex 1),
particularly in view of: (a) the envisaged expansion of processing capacity;
and (b) the need for new technology to allow more effective competition with
sophisticated industries of other countries such as Japan. The Forest Research
Institute (FORI) and the Forest Products Research and Industries Development
Commission (FORPRIDECOM) require graduate degree level researchers in the areas
of production and harvesting, and forest products utilization, respectively.
PCAR has estimated that an additional 100 M.S. and 40 Ph.D. holders would be
needed to sufficiently staff research stations by 1985. Additional demand for
graduate degree holders would be generated by universities, government agencies,
and the private sector. Projected total output of existing forestry institu-
tions is 150 M.S. and 25 Ph.D. graduates by 1985.
1.09      Livestock.  The planned expansion of the livestock sector is ex-
pected to increase the demand for quality high-level animal science majors
in production enterprises and service industries, extension and research. No
reliable country-wide data exist on the demand for these graduates but exist-
ing vacancies in both the public and private sectors indicate that the current
supply is inadequate. Government agencies, in particular, seem less able to
attract quality manpower due to less competitive pay scales and incentives.
Data for the Visayas region indicate a 1976-85 demand for 1400 animal science
graduates (para. 1.11) in that area alone, which has approximately 25% of the
country's livestock population. A shortage of middle-level manpower exists
for animal science technicians, particularly in the Bureau of Animal Industry
(BAI) and National Meat Inspection Commission (NMIC) to perform extension and
meat inspection services. The 600 BAI livestock inspector positions are pre-
sently filled with 50% B.S. agriculture graduates, 8% B.S. economics or commerce
graduates, and 42% have high-school education or less. Few, if any, have re-
ceived practical animal science training.  The BAI projects a demand for 260
animal science technicians per year through 1980. The NMIC has indicated a
need for 20,000 technicians to serve as meat inspectors, but this probably
bears little relation to effective demand. More realistically, most of the
country's 560 slaughterhouses would require only one well-trained animal
science technician to provide adequate inspection services. In private indus-
try, initial demand for technicians could be weak, due to traditional hiring



-5-
practice that requires a four-year degree. This should not remain the case,
however, if the shortage of four-year animal science graduates persists and
two-year technicians are hired in their place. Quality manpower is also
needed at the M.S. and Ph.D. levels in the animal science field. In research,
PCAR has forecasted a demand for about 220 M.S. or Ph.D holders by 1985. Con-
siderable additional demand could be expected to come from government agencies,
private industry and the universities. To upgrade technical services, the BAI,
for example, would require three higher degree holders in each of the country's
73 provinces for a total of 219. Indications are that the projected output of
the agricultural education system (520 M.S. or Ph.D.s by 1985) would be ab-
sorbed by the labor market.
1.10      Although the majority of existing Doctors of Veterinary Medicine
(DVMs) are concerned with disease prevention work, animal disease continues
to be a constraint to development of the livestock sector due to the shortage
of quality veterinary manpower. This shortage, coupled with the classical
orientation towards disease work, has caused little attention to be devoted
to animal production oriented activities. Increased output of DVMs, in addi-
tion to more emphasis on training in animal production aspects, would be
required to produce the veterinary manpower needed to implement Government
food production programs effectively. The current stock of DVMs is estimated
to be 850, 40% of whom are employed by the Government, 59% by private in-
dustry, and 1% are in private practice. The BAI currently has 214 DVMs and
40 vacancies. Most of those employed by the BAI are from two substandard
veterinary colleges (para. 2.13) and tend to need retraining or replacement.
Because of relatively low salaries and benefits and ample opportunities in
the private sector, the Government agencies have been less able in the past
to attract the higher caliber UP College of Veterinary Medicine (UPCVM) gra-
duates, but higher salaries and special allowances in the BAI are now revers-
ing this situation.
1.11      The Visayas Region.  In 1975, a comprehensive manpower survey was
conducted in one of the three major regions in the Philippines, the Visayas.
The Visayas State College of Agriculture (VISCA) surveyed approximately 70%
of the region's government and private industry employers and 90% of its
agricultural schools at all levels. The Visayas provide about 30% of the
country's food and export crop output and has about 25% of total livestock
units. Government agencies are the largest employers in the region. The
results of the survey show that average annual deficit in agricultural pro-
fessionals would be about 900 during 1976-85 (Annex 4).



- 6 -
II. AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Overview
2.01      The agricultural education system generally lacks quality
and relevance due to rapid proliferation in the number of institutions and
expansion of enrollments. Due to this growth, coupled with financial con-
straints and a shortage of qualified teachers, the institutions tend to be
substandard, overcrowded and underequipped. Graduates at the college, post-
secondary and secondary levels tend to be poorly trained and have difficulty
qualifying for employment in their respective fields. Rationalization and
improvement of this system are warranted so that agricultural education may
respond more effectively to the country's manpower, research, and extension
needs for development. This could be achieved by phasing out the majority of
substandard institutions and redirecting available resources to the develop-
ment of selected high-potential institutions. There has been no attempt made
in the Philippines to develop systematic non-formal training systems
for extension workers and farmers. Most existing in-service training programs
are on an ad hoc and sporadic basis and tend to lack coordination among user
agencies. Farmer training programs are few and have been established only
within the past few years. The effectiveness of both types of programs has
been hampered by the current rather fragmented approach to management of the
extension services which is in need of study with a view to reorganization.
2.02      Agricultural education--institutions, enrollments and output--forms
a small proportion of the total education system in the Philippines as seen
in the table below:
General and Agricultural Education
Institutions, Enrollment and Output
(1973-74)
Teacher/
No. of     Enrollment         Ouput     Student
Institutions (in thousand) (in thousand) Ratio
University (Grs 11-16)
Total                               591           648             91          1:23
- Of which Agriculture /a            63            31              3      1:7 to 1:30
- % of Total                         11             5              3           -
Technician (Grs 11-12)
Total                               180            18              3          1:15
- Of which Agriculture /a            63             4            0.6          1:15
- % of Total                         35            22             20           -
Secondary Schools (Grs 7-10) /b
Total                             4,590         1,793            143          1:33
- Of which Agriculture /a           177            57              9          1:30
- % of Total                          4           0.3              6
/a   Includes fisheries, forestry, livestock and other related fields.
/b   95% of the secondary school staff meet basic qualifications for teaching
at this level.



- 7 -
2.03      Administratively, agricultural institutions fall into three cate-
gories: (a) chartered state colleges and universities; (b) agricultural
colleges and secondary schools administered by the Bureau of Higher and
Secondary Education, respectively; and (c) private colleges and universities.
All agricultural institutions are under the aegis of the Department of Educa-
tion and Culture which exercises control ranging from complete supervision
over Bureau schools to almost none over autonomous chartered state institu-
tions. There has been a lack of coordination and control in education
administration due to overcentralization of authority in the Department of
Education in Manila and lack of opportunity for regional administration to
exercise individual initiative.
Agricultural Education System 1/
Staff with
No. of                Output Staff/Student Grad. Degrees/
Institutions Enrollment  p.a.        Ratio       Total Staff
(a) Agricultural
Colleges
(Grs 11-16)         46      28,000       2,600       1:25      597/1,374
Of which (UPLB        1       3,900        370       1:6        314/600
/a     (CLSU        1      1,250         210       1:23      25/54
(CMU        1       1,360         140      1:27       20/50
(VISCA      1         950         100      1:7        49/135
(b) Agricultural
Technician
Training
(Grs 11-12) /b      36       5,800         710       1:14        436
(c) Agricultural
High Schools
(Grs 7-10)          114     37,600       5,730       1:18      n.a. 2,074
/a   UPLB - University of the Philippines at Los Banos; CLSU - Central Luzon
State University; CMU - Central Miindanao University and VISCA - Visayas
State College of Agriculture.
/b   Includes technical, technological and teacher education courses, Bureau
of Vocational Education (1973-74).
2.04      Agricultural Higher Education.  At the higher level, enrollments
have increased from 4,000 in 1964 to an estimated 28,000 in 1974, but output
has increased only from about 1,000 to 2,600. As a result of rapid expansion,
most colleges are substandard and there is a shortage of well-trained teachers.
1/   Excludes forestry, veterinary/animal science which follow and fisheries
education which is not dealt with in this report.



-8-
Even the Regional State Colleges of Agriculture (CLSU, CMU and VISCA), which
are better staffed relative to most institutions, have only 48% of staff with
M.S. degrees and only 2%-10% with Ph.D. degrees. Curricula and instruction
-er'd to be irrelevant due to lack of employer input and teacher inexperience.
UPLB has developed a model curriculum for use by other agricultural colleges
but this has not been adapted to local environments by the recipients.  In-
,ernal efficiency of agricultural colleges is generally low: total dropout
rates range between 20% to 50% and the repeater rates between 15% to 25%.
This is contributed to by poor preparation at the secondary school level,
non-selective admissions policies, and high teacher to student ratios.
2.05      All 46 agricultural colleges give four-year Bachelor of Science in
Agriculture (B.S.A.) programs while graduate programs in agriculture are avail-
able at four institutions--UPLB, CLSU, CMU and Araneta University. Of these,
UPLB is the largest graduate school, contributing 160 out of 190 total grad-
uates in 1970.  UPLB enrolled 700 M.S. and 125 Ph.D.s and produced about 167
M.S. and 33 Ph.D.s. in 1975/76. By 1980, graduate enrollments at UPLB are
projected to increase by about 100%, the number of research projects by about
50%, and the faculty by 25%. Staff development has become extremely important
for UPLB and, in order to reduce dependence on foreign training, strengthening
of doctoral level training programs of the graduate school has high priority.
2.06      Post Secondary Level.  In 1973-74, 36 schools gave two-year courses
and 14 offered one-year or shorter opportunity courses dealing with poultry
husbandry, pig raising and farm mechanics designed to train middle-level tech-
nicians, Most of these schools share staff and facilities with agricultural
colleges/high schools where they are located and are deficient in laborato-
ries, equipment and qualified teachers. As a result, both internal efficiency
and external output tend to be low. Originally conceived as terminal courses
to Drepare technicians with emphasis on practical training, a two-year diploma
has largely become an alternate means for college entry for those who do not
qualify for direct admissions.  Government policy for the employment of dip-
loma holders is unclear. Some agencies, such as the Bureaus of Animal Industry
and Forest Development, are willing to hire technicians. However, the Bureau
of Agricultural Extension still requires field extension workers to have col-
lege degrees, although the diploma level programs were conceived, in part, to
produce needed extension staff.
2.07      Secondary Level.  High school programs in agriculture are of two
types: (a) some general secondary schools give an elective two-year voca-
tional course in agriculture; and (b) vocational agricultural high schools
give agricultu-ral courses over all the four years. Most of t1he secondary
schools lack fac41it4es for science teaching, laboratories, and equipment
and do not provide practical field training.  General high schools tend to
be more deficient than the vocational agricultural high schools, as they
receive less government support. The curricula tend to be heavily academic.
So far, only the six Barrio Development Schools and 13 Experimental Agricul-
tural High Schools being assisted under the second education project (Credit



-9-
349-PH) have adopted curricula with adequate emphasis (50%) on practical
training. As is the case with diploma holders, few graduates of the agri-
cultural high school programs become farmers but, rather, pursue further
education.
2.08      Forestry Education
Staff/ Staff with
No. of                Ouput  Student Grad. Degrees/
Institutions Enrollment  p.a.   Ratio   Total Staff
Degree Level                8          650       110    1:6        58/128
Of which UPLB-CF          1          240        45    1:5        35/57
Technician Level           18        1,400       280    1:25       18/58
Of which UPLB-CF          1          115        25    1:9         5/13
Eight of the 18 forestry schools give Bachelor's degree courses (B.S.F., four
years) and two offer Master's degree programs in forestry (M.S.F., two years).
All 18 give two to three-year forest ranger technician courses. The ranger
course is terminal at UPLB-CF, but at all other colleges, it can substitute
for the first two years of the degree program which tends to make its orient-
ation less practical. All forestry schools except UPLB-CF were established
during the last ten years, most of them have inexperienced teachers.
Curricula tend to be lacking in relevance and poorly taught; physical facil-
ities--laboratories, equipment and forest areas--are generally inadequate.
As a result, internal efficiency tends to be low with about a 60% dropout rate.
A large number of the graduates from these colleges are unemployable in their
fields--only about 10% are able to pass the professional examination given by
the Board of Forestry Examiners.
2.09      UPLB-CF is regarded as the national center of excellence in forestry
education and has a faculty (15 Ph.D.s, 20 M.F.s and 22 B.S.F.s) which is
better qualified and as large as the combined staff of all other forestry
institutions. In addition to teaching, UPLB-CF staff do research and conduct
continuing forestry education programs. In order to improve the quality
of its intake, UPLB-CF has adopted the UPLB entrance test for admission to
degree classes and has improved scholarship programs. It has been revising
its curricula and courses in consultation with employers and, in response to
the needs of development, has started a new Bachelor's degree program in Forest
Products Engineering and intends to start a two-year Forest Products Techni-
cian Training course. Because of their relatively high quality (about 90% of
B.S.F.s pass the professional licensing examination), graduates and rangers
from UPLB-CF are in demand both in the public and private sectors.



10 -
2,10     Afiial Science Education
Staff/   Staff with
No. of                        Outout Student Grad. Degrees/
Institutions    Enrollments       p.a.   Ratio    Total Staff
A.H.
Total    Major
Total                      21      14,000 /a   700    140       n.a.         n.a.
Of which UPLB
Dept. of
Animal Science            1       1,000 /b   200       40     1:16        29/73
/a   Total estimated enrollment of the institutions in four years of which
about five percent take Animal Science as a major subject.
/b Undergraduate students taking animal husbandry courses.
Animal Science is offered as a major course at the undergraduate level at
about 21 agricultural colleges, most of which tend to be substandard. The UPLB
Department of Animal Science (DAS) is relatively the best institution in this
field ir. terms oL staff, physical facilities and research and, as a result, has
been serving as the national center of education and research in animal science.
The staff consists of 35 teachers (14 Ph.D.s, 15 M.S. and 6 DVM/B.S.) and 38
research assistants, and instruction is offered in eight major areas of animal
science. Training of livestock and poultry extension workers is an important
function of the Department. Currently, about 120 undergraduate and 80 graduate
students are enrolled in the Department; projections for 1980 are 200 and 160,
respectively. The number of students from other Departments who take animal
husbandry courses is expected to double from the present 1,000 to about 2,000
by 1980. To meet planned enrollment increases, the Department is in need of
expansion of staff, facilities, and equipment. The Department graduates annual-
ly about 40 B.S. majors and 30 M.S., about 50% of whom have completed the pro-
gram in four years and the rest in five to six years.  UPLB animal husbandry
graduates are in great demand by both government agencies and private industry
and, because of their relatively high quality, are preferred to graduates of
other agricultural institutions,
2.11      Animal Science Technician Training.  No technician courses are
offered at present in the field of veterinary science or animal husbandry.
There is a need for more practically oriented middle-level manpower with
a basic understanding of both animal production and disease. The Government
has, therefore, proposed to start a technician training course at UPLB. Both
the UPCVM and the UPLB-DAS would collaborate in the implementation of this
program which would produce up to 100 diploma holders each year. The curri-
cula would be flexible to permit adaptation to specific needs of the user
agencies and industry. In conjunction with the program, an Animal Disease
Diagnostic Center is proposed to be established as part of the Department of



- 11 -
Veterinary Clinical Science of the UPCVM when it is relocated at Los Banos.
This would supply the country with much needed diagnostic laboratory services,
as well as being a valuable instructional tool.
2.12      Veterinary Education
Staff/   Staff with
No. of                  Output Student  Grad. Degrees/
Institutions Enrollments   p.a.   Ratio    Total Staff
Total                      4          1,000        50      1:8        12/56
Of which UPCVM              1           250        40      1:7        10/35
There are four Colleges of Veterinary Medicine, three chartered and one pri-
vate. The UP College of Veterinary Medicine (UPCVM) located at Diliman, is
relatively the best of the four colleges with regard to the quality of grad-
uates, efficiency of the education process, and physical facilities. It
gives a four-year Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) program after two years
of post-secondary education at the UP or elsewhere and annually has been gra-
duating about 30 compared to 20 from Araneta University (700 enrollment) and
four from the University of Eastern Philippines (140 enrollment). This com-
paratively low efficiency of the latter two colleges is primarily due to poor
staff and Lack of laboratories, equipment, books and farm facilities. Central
Mindanao University started a DVM program in 1975, with 30 students and UP
Tacloban has plans to start a new College of Veterinary Medicine in 1977.
Graduate training in the field is only available at UPCVM which gives a two-
year Masters degree program in three subjects: parasitology, pathology and
public hea:Lth.
2.13      IJPCVM has 35 full-time staff compared to 14 at Araneta University
and seven at University of Eastern Philippines. About 95% of UPCVM graduates
pass the national professional examination for veterinarians and they are
fully employed immediately on graduation. (Comparable data are not available
from other veterinary colleges, but their performance is believed to be sub-
stantially weaker). UPCVM is an important contributor to veterinary research
and maintains an extension unit manned by four veterinarians and two clinicians.
2.14      There is considerable scope for both expansion and quality improve-
ment to enable the UPCVM to perform its role as a strong center of national
excellence. Unlike the UPLB College of Agriculture, UPCVM has not received
external assistance for staff development and the average academic level of
its faculty has remained low (1 Ph.D., 9 M.S. and 25 DVM). The levels of
research and instruction have also remained low due to lack of adequate labo-
ratory space, clinical facilities, and equipment. Facilities for working with
cattle and large animals are minimal because they are situated in the middle
of the University campus in the Diliman District of Greater Manila. Following
a recommendation by the Bank that relocation of the UPCVM at Los Banos should
be considered, the Board of Regents of the UP decided in September 1976 to
relocate aLl the undergraduate and part of graduate training at Los Banos,
where it would be physically and academically linked with the UPLB-DAS.



- 12 -
Reasons for this include benefits of better interdisciplinary interaction
between the UPCVM and the UPLB-DAS, better role of veterinary graduates by
training in rural and agricultural environment, complementarity of resources
of the two units economies of operation, increasing urban pressure on live-
stock enterprises in the Manila area, which have been used by UPCVM for teach-
ing and research, future intra-university pressure on the UPCVM to move out
of Diliman, and government policy aimed at decongestion of growing Manila.
2.15      Regional Agricultural Education in the Visayas 1/
Staff/   Staff with
No. of                  Output Student  Grad. Degrees/
Grade  Institutions Enrollments   p.a.   Ratio    Total Staff
College Level      11-14
Total                          8          4,500      450      1:23       75/200
Of which VISCA                 1            950      180      1:6        49/135
Technician Level  11-12
Total                         11          2,530      310      1:17        n.a./147
Of which VISCA                 -              -          -       -
Secondary Level    7-10
Total                         38         12,350     1,980.    1:16       n.a./722
Of which VISCA                 1            500       100      1:16        1/30
In the Visayas region, there are 54 separate institutions giving agricultural
courses--secondary, technician and college level--some of which offer more
than one level. Of the eight agricultural colleges in the region, two are
chartered --the Visayas State College of Agriculture (VISCA) and the University
of Eastern Philippines College of Agriculture. The six others which are ad-
ministered by the Bureau of Secondary Education are reported to be substandard.
VISCA, formerly known as Visayas Agricultural College, was also under the Bureau
of Secondary Education until 1974 when it was given an autonomous status as a
chartered state agricultural institution. The former Dean of the UPLB College
of Agriculture was appointed as the first President of VISCA and a Board of
Trustees was established which includes the Secretary of Education as Chairman,
the Dean of UPLB College of Agriculture and four prominent Visayans as members.
The President's competent and dynamic leadership has been providing necessary
impetus for expansion and quality improvement. In the past year, six additional
Ph.D.s joined the College (bringing the total ten doctorates or 7% of the
1/   The second education project (Credit 349-PH) includes two Regional
Agricultural Universities, Central Luzon State University and Central
Mindanao University.



13 -
staff) and a Five-Year Development Plan (1976-80) was completed. The Govern-
ment has approved the construction of central buildings (library, administra-
tive building, auditorium, and general classrooms, etc.) to be financed with
its own funds US$3.2 million. The College's annual budget has increased five-
fold since 1974 to reach P 5.3 million in 1976. Faculty salaries and other
benefits are higher than the two other regional agricultural universities
and are comparable to the UPLB. The newly recruited key staff (department
chairmen and other administrators) appear to be enthusiastic and challenged
by the opportunity to help develop VISCA. VISCA now is the largest college
level institution in the Visayas, accounting for about 25% of the regional
enrollment at this level. It has more staff with graduate degrees than all
the other colleges combined. In terms of leadership, staff and resources VISCA
has the strongest potential for development in the region and has, therefore,
been designated by the Government to become the primary producer of high
quality teachers, research and extension workers needed in the region.
2.16      VISCA has a faculty of 135 (10 Ph.D.s, 39 M.A./M.S., and 86 B.A/B.S)
and intends to increase to about 200 by 1981 with about 40% of the staff to
hold doctoral degrees. The College has formulated a staff development pro-
gram which would train about 126 faculty members--56 for Ph.D. and 70 for M.S.
degrees at UPLB and foreign universities. In 1975/76, VISCA enrolled 950 stu-
dents in four B.S. programs--agriculture, agricultural development education,
agricultural engineering, and home economics - and graduated about 180 in
1974/75. Enrollment is planned to increase to about 1,500 by 1980 due partly
to the addition of two new degree programs in animal protection and agri-
business. Also, the College is anticipating the need to absorb students from
substandard institutions which are expected to phase out their degree programs
when an accreditation system is introduced. In order to enlarge its service
area (80% come from the Eastern Visayas, primarily Leyte) and to attract bet-
ter quality students, VISCA has established 12 applicant testing centers in
other parts of the region. The dropout rate is about 10%-15% at present and
the male to female student ratio is favorable, 1:1 among the freshmen. VISCA
has recently revised curricula to make them more relevant to the region's
needs and has also increased the major areas for specialization from three to
nine in the B.S.A. program.
2.17      VISCA's experiment station consists of about 260 ha:  110 ha of
cropping area, 12 ha for animal projects, and 135 ha of pasture which is part-
ly planted to coconuts and abaca. Rather than for experimentation the station
in the past has been used largely for production purposes, except for some
minor research and cooperative yield trials in rice and corn.   Previously,
conditions were not conducive to the development of an experiment station or
applied research due to heavy teaching loads, and lack of research funds,
equipment and facilities. In the future, the College intends to reduce teach-
ing workloads and to allocate more funds from its own budget for research
until outside funds are attracted. As a regional state college of agriculture
with an excellent chance of obtaining research support from PCAR and other
agencies, the College has developed a comprehensive plan for research activ-
ities for 1976-80 period. Necessary steps to expand the experiment station to



- 14 -
2bo-i: -   000 h.e have been undertaken0  Research on important -Visayan crops is
_xsec--d ,o receive attention rrom PCARR which has identified VISCA as the site
For the National Research Centers for rootcrops, abaca, and coconut. Also,
tha Yhlippine Coconut Authority is contemplating using VISCA for its extension
training programs.
2018      Non-formal Agricultural Training.  Non-formal agricultural training
has two main comporents:  the in-service training of extension workers, and
fa-=r  training. Absence of an effective delivery system of new knowledge
and technology from research stations to small farmers through field level
extension workers has been one of the most serious constraints to increasing
agricultural production. However, no systematic attempt has been made to
organize extension and farmer training programs in order to insure optimal
use of existing extension manpower and resources.
2.19      In addition to on-the-job training, extension workers (Farm Manage-
ment Technicians) are trained through programs at educational institutions,
research stations or demonstration farms. The largest role in this type of
training is played by the Continuing Education Center at UPLB-International
Rice Research Institute (IRRI) which has accommodation facilities for 60 per-
sons. The Center offered high quality training to about 1,000 persons per
year during 1974 and 1975 in courses of three days to nine months duration.
In 1974-75, about 15 employing agencies and Bureaus conducted their own train-
ing courses for about 5,800 extension workers (about 30% of total existing
extension staff) at UPLB and other regional institutions for a total of about
48,000 man-days. This volume of training, though significant, is not suffi-
cient to make up for deficiencies in past training of extension workers.
Programs are generally on an ad hoc and sporadic basis and their effective-
ness is limited due to scattered locations and inadequately Frepared teachers,
curricula and training materials.  Selection of trainees is not systematic;
some agents attend several sessions while others attend none. Lack of coor-
dination between agencies tends to result in duplication of effort and
inter-agency rivalry.
2.20      Both residential and non-residential farmer trainirg programs are
conducted by various government agencies and private agricultural suppliers.
At Present, orly four residential farmer training centers are operating--at
Bulacan, Cavite, Ilocos Norte, and Nueva Ecija. Although these programs
differ in approach and methodology, they all have as their primary objective
the upgrading of skills of selected farmers who are expected to become farmer
leaders in their barrios or become "Deputy Production Technicians" to assist
the regular extension workers. These centers were established within the past
few years and appear to be effective, though results are still being studied
by the UPLB-CA Extensiorn Center.  Some farmer training is conducted by the
Bureau of Agricultural Extension (BAEx) at its network of demonstration farms.
These are supported by provincial governments and the extent of the training
-s highly variable and facilities and funds are generally insufficient.  The
BAEx and the National Food and Agricultural Council jointly support a "school-
on-the-air" radio program which covers 600,000 farmers and is reportedly use-
Ful in creating farmer interest in educational activities. In general,
existing farmer training programs are effective, but are available only to a
Iim ited number of farmers0



- 15 -
2.21      Education Financing.  The total amount of funds (public and
private) allocated to education in 1975 is estimated at P 3.0 -lLion (about
3% of GNP), three-fourths from the national government. Although national
government expenditures on education have increased in absolute terms from
P 941 million in FY68 to P 2.3 billion in FY75, they have actually remained
at about the FY72 level (P 1.36 billion, expressed in constant prices applying
the GNP deflator). On a per capita basis in FY75 expenditures for public
education were about US$8 (at constant prices) a decrease of 15% in real terms
since FY72. Also, despite the absolute increase in national government educa-
tion expenditures, the share of total expenditures allocated to education has
declined from about 30% in the 1960s to about 15% in 1975, largely due to:
(a) a sharp increase in the total government budget; and (b) a restriction
on increases in teacher salaries.
2.22      Total national government expenditure (Annex 5) devoted to agricul-
tural education (including forestry, livestock and fisheries) is estimated at
P 300 million in 1975, over four times the P 71.5 million spent in 1971. En-
rollment, however, doubled from approximately 13,200 to 28,000 in the same
period. UPLB and UPCVM recurrent expenditures have increased an average of 27%
and 4% per year while the VISCA budget has increased more dramatically from
P 0.5 million in FY71 to P 1.7 million in FY75 due to its conversion to a
chartered state college. This trend of increasing national government expend-
itures on agricultural education reflects the greater emphasis placed on the
agriculture sector in development plans. Foreign assisted institutions, in
particular, would receive priority in the budgeting process per a recent
Presidential Letter of Instruction.
Assessment of Government Policies and Programs
2.23      The Government has developed a strategy for rationalization and
improvement of agricultural education through the creation of a National
System of Agricultural Education. Central to the strategy, the Government
established in January 1977 a Technical Panel for Agricultural Education in
the Department of Education and Culture with a Secretariat and statutory
powers to formulate overall policies and coordinate development plans in this
subsector (Annex 6). One of the primary functions of the Technical Panel
would be to carry out accreditation of agricultural institutions, to assess
their academic standards and to use them as a basis for central budgetary
allocations. The goal would be to phase out substandard schools and colleges
and thereby allocate scarce resources to the upgrading of selected agricultural
institutions with high potential. The organization of the system would be
comprised of: (a) apex institutions at the national level to serve as centers
of excellence in the fields of agriculture, forestry, animal sciences/veterinary
medicine,and fisheries; (b) one agricultural college with high standards in each
of the three major regions (Luzon, Mindanao, and the Visayas) around which would
be clustered selected colleges and agricultural high schools to serve as voca-
tional/technician training or non-formal education centers; (c) experimental
agricultura:L high schools to improve the relevance of secondary education
to rural needs; (d) post-secondary two-year technician training programs to



- 16 -
provide practical skills in various disciplines of agriculture to those not
pursuing four-year degrees; and (e) effective systems of training extension
workers and farmers in support of food production programs.
2.24      The Government is aware of the weaknesses of the agricultural edu-
cation system and has developed a relevant strategy for improvement. Solution
to the problems of agricultural education will depend not so much on the con-
tent of the strategy for improvement but, rather, on the Government's ability
to implement it effectively. Maintenance of the Technical Parel is crucial to
solving the major problem of the system--the crisis of quality following the
uncontrolled proliferation of schools and colleges.
2.25      Substantial progress has already been achieved towards the center
of excellence goal through assistance to the UPLB College of Agriculture
(UPLB-CA) under the first education project in the Philippines (Loan 393-PH,
completed May 1973). 1/ The institution has attained recognition as the fore-
most agricultural college in the nation. The UPLB-CA now supplies competent
teaching and research manpower and technical assistance to other institutions,
and also provides important advisory services to government agencies and the
private sector. Due to lack of foreign exchange, the College's staff develop-
ment needs, however, have remained largely unmet since 1972 when sources of
bilateral technical assistance ceased to be available. This lack of foreign
exchange has also hampered the development of centers of excellence in the
important agricultural subsectors of forestry, livestock and fisheries.
Neither the UPLB College of Forestry and the Department of Animal Science
nor the UPCVM or College of Fisheries at Diliman received assistance under
the first education project. As a result, they have remained comparatively
less developed and there is an imbalance in the interdisciplinary growth of
agricultural education which needs to be corrected.
2.26      Under the second education project (Credit 349-PH), development
was begun of regional agricultural colleges in Luzon and Mindanao. However,
due to insufficient project preparation on the part of the Government, no
assistance was provided for the third major region, the Visayas. The policy
of regionalization of agricultural education opportunities remains incomplete
due to the Government's inability to finance the third component. Also under
the second project, 13 experimental agricultural high schools and 6 barrio
development high schools were established which are important steps in in-
creasing the relevance of secondary education. However, before further such
schools are established, or curricula with emphasis on practical training
are adopted by existing schools, an evaluation of employment opportunities
of graduates should be made.
2.27      The two-year technician training programs could play an important
role in providing practical skills to high school graduates not continuing to
college. However, government policy regarding the employment of these grad-
uates is ill-defined vis-a-vis agricultural college graduates. Only two
1/   Project Performance Audit Report:  The Development Program of University
of the Philippines College of Agriculture (Loan 393-PH), Sec M75-560,
July 30, 1975.



- 17 -
agencies, the Bureaus of Animal Industry and Forest Development, have expressed
willingness to hire diploma holders, whereas important employers such as the
Bureau of Agricultural Extension continue to require extension agents to have
four-year degrees. Until hiring policy is clarified, such programs should be
expanded with caution or participants would continue to either use two-year
training as a means to higher education or have difficulty finding employment
in their fields.
2.28      Government success in developing effective non-formal training
systems for extension workers and farmers will depend on: (a) the avail-
ability of funds to implement proposed schemes; (b) increased quality and
relevance of training programs through improvement in curricula, teachers,
facilities, and equipment; and (c) reorganization of the extension system to
enhance efficiency and effectiveness. Lack of an organized system of non-
formal education in the Philippines has been largely due to the present ap-
proach to extension which is fragmented, lacking in coordination, and prone
to inter-agency rivalry. A management audit of the extension service has
been authorized by the Department of Agriculture to review the existing
structure and programs and to effect the much needed reorganization. In
this context, the Government has requested the Bank to send a mission to the
Philippines to review their agricultural extension system and to make recom-
mendations for its improvement. This mission is scheduled for April 1977.
Bank Lending Strategy in Education
2.29      In further support of government plans, the proposed fourth educa-
tion project would concentrate on completing the missing elements of the
developmenit strategy: (a) to improve at least one College/Department in the
area of Forestry, Animal Science, and Veterinary Medicine to train high
quality manpower and remove the interdisciplinary imbalance in the growth of
agricultural education; 1/ (b) to enable UPLB to play a continuing role of
leadership among institutions of agricultural education, research and exten-
sion through staff development; (c) to complete the first phase of regionali-
zation of agricultural education by developing the Visayas State College of
Agriculture; and (d) to introduce organized extension training and non-formal
training for farmers strengthened through technical support to the Bureau of
Agricultural Extension (BAEx) field staff. Government counterpart funds
would be available to implement this strategy (para. 2.22).
1/     The Government is undertaking a comprehensive study of the
fisheries education system and in particular, the feasibility of
transferring the UP College of Fisheries from Diliman to an alter-
nate location. As a result of this study, Bank financing may be
sought in the future for strengthening fisheries education.



- 18 -
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Scope
3.01      The main objective of the project is to increase the supply of
well-qualified agricultural manpower needed to implement important agricul-
tural development programs in crops, forestry, and livestock (Chapter I).
The project would assist in completing the Government's education develop-
ment strategy (para. 2.23) in the following key areas: (a) strengthening
staff development at the University of the Philippines at Los Banos, which
includes particularly the College of Forestry and the Department of Animal
Science; (b) establishment of strong centers of national excellence in for-
estry, animal science, and veterinary medicine; (c) establishment of a strong
regional college of agriculture in the Visayas; and (d) creation of a national
system of in-service training for practicing agricultural extension workers
and other rural development staff, and experimentation with various farmer
training delivery systems. This would help the Government achieve a better
balance in agricultural education in three ways: among disciplines (agricul-
ture, forestry, animal husbandry, and veterinary medicine); among regions
(Visayas, Luzon and Mindanao); and between formal and non-formal education.
3.02      The proposed project would include the provision of:
(a) construction, furniture, equipment and technical assistance for
the following institutions:
No. of             Enrollment
Type of Institution                        Inst.       Present   Planned (1981)
University of the Philippines at Los Banos
(i) College of Forestry                    1           415           890
(ii) Department of Animal Science
Degree Program                         1           200           390
Technician Program                     1             0           220
University of the Philippines at Diliman
College of Veterinary Medicine a/          1           260           400
Visayas State College of Agriculture          1          950         1,500
Philippine Training Centers for
Rural Development
(i) National Center                        1             0           200 b/
(ii) Regional Centers                       5             0         3,600 b/
(iii) Farmer Training Centers                6             0         9,000 b/
a/   The Board of Regents of the University decided in September 1976 to
relocate the College at Los Banos beginning with 1979 intake.
b/   Multiple short courses.
(b) technical assistance to upgrade staff of the University of
the Philippines at Los Banos and Visayas State College of Agri-
culture and to strengthen project management capability.



- 19 -
3.03      The Government established in January 1977 a Technical Panel
for Agricultural Education in the Department of Education and Cilture with
terms of reference and representation agreeable to the Bank. Durirg negoti-
ations, the Government gave assurance that the Panel and its secretariat
would be maintained in accordance with these terms of reference, or with
changes which would be mutually agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank,
during project implementation and at least five years thereafter and that
appointments of staff to this Panel would be completed within one year after
signing of the proposed loan.
Project Components 1/
University of the Philippines at Los Banos, College of Forestry (UPLB-CF)
(US$3.2 million) 2/
3.04      The primary objective of the proposed project component is to:
(a) develop the UPLB-CF as a center of national excellence for forestry
education and training (para. 2.09); (b) ensure a continuous supply of better
trained foresters, wood scientists, and technologists needed by the Government
forest agencies, universities, research establishments, and private logging
and processing industries (para. 1.08); and (c) strengthen forestry research
programs (para. 1.08). Assistance provided would be in the form of improve-
ment of physical facilities, equipment, and overseas fellowship programs
(34 man-years).
3.05      The proposed project would enable the UPLB-CF to increase the pre-
sent enrollment of 415 to 890 by 1981, including 120 post-graduate students,
100 and 150 undergraduates in the fields of forest products engineering, and
forest products technology, respectively, in the newly established Department
of Wood Science and Technology. To ensure adequate quantity and quality of
student intake required for the planned expansion, the college would embark on
a series of workshops for prospective applicants in selected high schools
which emphasize science in their curricula. Recruitment would be aided by the
fact that graduates of the college encounter no difficulty in securing employ-
ment upon graduation and about 90% successfully pass the professional examin-
ation set by the Board of Examiners for Foresters (para. 2.09). Curricula
would be oriented to make the College's ongoing programs more relevant to the
development needs of the forestry industry, particularly through the Depart-
ment of Wood Science and Technology in developing new programs in the areas
of wood processing and utilization. In order to meet the expansion of teach-
ing and research programs in the next five years, the number of staff would
be increased from 57 to 90. The additional staff required would be recruited
mainly from among the College's own post-graduates.
1/   Present and projected enrollment/output at the proposed project
institutions are summarized in Annex 7.
2/   Figures in parentheses are the proposed outlay, excluding contingencies.



- 20 -
University of the Philippines at Los Banos, Department of Animal Science
(UPLB-DAS) (US$4.4 million)
3.06      The proposed project would enable the UPLB-DAS to increase the
quantity and to improve quality of graduates who are in high demand for
technical, teaching, and research positions (para. 1.09). As part of the
Government's higher education development strategy, the Department of Animal
Science would be upgraded as a national center of excellence (para. 2.23).
The Department was not included in the first education project and its present
physical facilities are inadequate. The proposed project would provide
physical facilities, equipment, and overseas fellowships (24 man-years) for
teaching and research staff. Curricula would be strengthened in fields
closely related to livestock development, such as reproductive physiology,
meat science and animal by-products utilization.
3.07      The proposed component would enable the Department to increase
the present enrollment of 120 to 230 animal science undergraduates and from
80 to 160 graduate students by 1981. The rate of planned expansion is attain-
able. Annual output of about 70 graduates and 75 post-graduates would be
below the projected national needs (para. 1.09). Space provided under the
proposed component would also enable the Department to expand its function of
teaching students from other faculties of UPLB from about 1,000 to 2,000 stu-
dents. The base teaching staff would only need to be expanded from 34 to 36,
but an increase of research staff is planned from 38 to 84 to meet the increas-
ing demand for research. Some research staff members would also be involved
in teaching. PCARR is expected to be the major source of funds for these
additional research positions.
3.08      Under the proposed project, a two-year animal technician training
program, leading to a certificate in Animal Health and Production, would be
offered by the Department of Animal Science (DAS) in collaboration with the
UP College of Veterinary Medicine (UPCVM). The main objective of the proposed
program is to meet the need for well-trained middle-level animal science man-
power (Annex 2). A basic understanding of animal biology, production and
disease, and practical skills would be emphasized. Curricula would be struc-
tured in consultation with prospective employers, particularly the Bureau
of Animal Industry and the National Meat Inspection Commission (para. 1.09).
The new buildings of the UPCVM at Los Banos and the expanded teaching space
and equipment provided to the DAS would allow technician training enrollment
of up to 220 students. This would only be increased in the future in response
to demand. The large number of students unable to meet full college entry
requirements or unable to afford the longer B.S.A. training would provide
adequate intake. Staff from the DAS would conduct courses in animal science
and staff from the UPCVM in veterinary subjects. The trainees would be ex-
posed to practical problems and would learn relevant procedures and techniques
through one semester assignment to government or private livestock enterprises.



- 21 -
University of the Philippines at Los Banos College of Veterinary Medicine
(UPCVM) (US$3.9 million)
3.09      In order to strengthen the UPCVM as the national center of excel-
lence in t]he field of veterinary science (para. 2.14), the proposed component
would provide for relocation of the undergraduate and part of graduate teach-
ing activities of the UPCVM at Los Banos, physical facilities including hostels
and staff laousing, additional equipment and overseas fellowships (40 man-years).
A Fellowship Committee has been established and selection criteria and proce-
dures for awarding fellowships have been formulated, which are acceptable to
the Bank. Specialists' services (about 4-1/2 man-years) would be provided to
assist curriculum development and staff training in fields of virology, phar-
macology, laboratory animal medicine, and entomology. Student enrollment would
increase from 260 at present to about 400 by 1981 to produce up to 90 DVMs plus
15 masters per year, as against a previous maximum of 30 graduates per year.
The current rate of enrollment increases indicates that the planned expansion
would be possible. The estimated annual output of the UPCVM would be below the
projected national needs (Annex 2) and the graduates are not expected to expe-
rience difficulty in finding employment. The expansion would require the
College to increase the number of staff from 35 to 50 by 1981. The College's
own masters' degree program should be able to provide for this staff expansion.
During negotiations, the Government agreed that terms of reference and appoint-
ments of foreign experts financed under the project would be acceptable to the
Bank.
3.10     Trhe proposed component includes provision of an Animal Disease
Diagnostic Laboratory (para. 2.11) at UPLB as part of the Department of
Veterinary Clinical Science of UPCVM. The laboratory would submit specimens
from veterinarians to diagnostic procedures so that effective control, pre-
vention and treatment of animal diseases may be undertaken. Southern Luzon
is deficient in such essential diagnostic services. The laboratory would
also play an important role in veterinary clinical training and animal science
training programs.
Staff Development at the University of the Philippines at Los Banos (UPLB)
(US$2.5 million)
3.11      Bank financing would be provided under the proposed project to
strengthen staff capability in teaching, research, and extension. Staff
development is a major aspect of the UPLB's long-term development plan empha-
sizing expansion and quality improvement of graduate training programs in
development-oriented fields. This would reduce dependency on foreign train-
ing in the the future, particularly at the doctorate level, and would further
reinforce the role of the UPLB as a national center of excellence, the major
source of quality-trained agricultural manpower and technical advice to other
colleges and government agencies. The proposed project would finance a total
of about 200 man-years of overseas fellowships. This fellowship program would
consist of doctoral (180 man-years) and post-doctoral (20 man years) (Annex 8).
3.12      The proposed magnitude of overseas fellowships is essential to
support the planned expansion and quality improvement of the UPLB's graduate



- 22 -
graduate training programs. This is justifiable in terms of the important
role of the UPLB as the major source of graduate level manpower and technical
assistance to government agencies and other agricultural institutions. The
proposed staff development program, including local fellowships, would raise
the proportion of doctoral degree holders from the present 26% to about 40% 1/
in 1981. Alone, the proposed overseas fellowships would raise the proportion
to 30% by 1981. Despite the envisaged increase in faculty holding doctoral
degrees, the ratio of the faculty with doctoral degrees to graduate students
would remain constant at 1:4.8 due to the faster increase in graduate enroll-
ment (11.4% and 19.2% p.a. for M.S. and doctoral programs, respectively, during
1977-81). Without overseas fellowship programs, this ratio would be increased
to 1:6, which would adversely affect the quality of graduate training programs.
The overseas fellowships would be awarded in fields of specialization presently
not given in the Philippines. In order to orient these fellowships more appro-
priately towards the solving of local development problems, wherever possible,
the fellows would conduct thesis research in the Philippines. The fellows
would be required to consult the UPLB Graduate Council at an appropriate time
through their home departments/institutes regarding doctoral research topic
to determine its relevance to the development needs of the Philippines. A
fellowship committee has been organized to ensure that selections of fellows
are made in accordance with the objectives of the staff development programs
and other specific procedures and selection criteria which have been estab-
lished by the Government and are acceptable to the Bank. The recipients of
the overseas fellowships would be bonded to UPLB for two and one half times
the length of the fellowship to ensure that they assume jobs connected with
the project after graduation. 2/ This arrangement would help ensure that a
basic core of highly trained staff remain at UPLB. The proposed program would
be phased so that adequate teaching, research, and extension staff would be
available at the UPLB for ongoing activities during the absence of staff on
fellowships.
3B13      As it was deemed crucial that the staff development program under
the proposed project begin in September 1976, it is recommended that the Bank
approve retroactive financing for expenditures incurred after September 1, 1976
1/   In 1964, a target of 40% of Ph.D.s on the UPLB faculty was recommended
at appraisal of the first education project (Loan 393-PH). In spite of
the bilateral technical assistance received (127 staff members), the
target was not achieved largely due to: (a) the slow progress (30 grad-
uates in 1975-76) of UPLB's local doctoral program; (b) increasing demands
on UPLB staff from other Philippine agricultural colleges, research
institutions, and government development agencies; and (c) drastically
decreased resources for overseas fellowships since 1972.
2,/ From 1952-72, 127 staff members were trained abroad under bilateral
technical assistance. Of these, 46 staff have left the UPLB but only
14 (11% of those foreign trained) took jobs outside the Philippines,
mostly with international organizations.



- 23 -
up to a maximum of about US$300,000. During negotiations, the Government
agreed that about 70 and 150 staff members of UPLB would be tL ilned with
locally provided funds for Ph.D. and M.S. degrees, respectively, at uni-
versities located in the Philippines.
Visayas State College of Agriculture (VISCA)/ (US$12.7 million).
3.14      The main objectives of the proposed assistance to VISCA, located in
Baybay, Leyte, are to: (a) develop VISCA into a regional center of excellence
in agricultural education, research, and extension; (b) train the compe-
tent agricultural specialists, teachers, technicians and extension workers
required to meet the manpower needs of the Visayas region (para. 1.11);
(c) promote research activity (para. 2.17) and the development of extension
methodology appropriate for the region; and (d) enable VISCA to disseminate
research results and new technology through extension training, radio pro-
grams, and publications. The proposed project would help finance necessary
physical facilities, overseas fellowships (85 man-years) and specialists'
services (four man-years) for curriculum development. VISCA has established
a Fellowship Committee and formulated detailed selection criteria and pro-
cedures acceptable to the Bank for awarding fellowships.
3.15      Under the proposed project, enrollment would be expanded from 950
to 1,500 by 1981, with an output target of 320 students per year in four
existing fields - agriculture, agricultural education, agricultural engineer-
ing, home economics - and two new fields - animal protection and agri-business
(para. 2.16). Past admission records show that adequate numbers of qualified
entrants would be available for the planned expansion of enrollment. The
graduates are expected to experience no difficulty in finding employment
(para. 1.11). In order to support the planned expansion, staff size would
need to be increased from 135 to 200. The UPLB would be the major source of
this additional staff. The College has been successful in recent recruiting
of staff, particularly at the Ph.D. level, by offering improved salaries and
other allowances. Recruitment under the proposed project would be eased by
the increased opportunities available to the staff for advanced degree pro-
grams at the UPLB (about 215 man-years) and abroad (85 man-years).
3.16      The proposed project would also establish a Social Laboratory at
VISCA to conduct research on Visayan rural problems and develop improved
extension methodologies based on experiences gained under the second educ-
ation project (Credit 349-PH). This objective would be achieved through:
(a) conducling field surveys and identification of key problems; (b) find-
ing solutions to field problems through adaptive research; (c) prompt dis-
semination of usable technologies and methodologies among rural people
through effective demonstrations and use of mass media; and (d) by guiding
1/   Two other regional agricultural higher institutions are included in
the second education project (Credit 349-PH). The proposed assistance
to VISCA would complete the first phase of the Government's plan for
regionalization of agricultural education (para. 2.23).



- 24 -
rural people to develop appropriate rural institutions and support services.
The project area would serve as a field laboratory to VISCA students,
teachers and researchers. When fully established, the Social Laboratory
would cover 16 barrios in Leyte, including about 560 farm households. In
order to disseminate research results quickly and to carry out a program of
continuing education of farmers, the proposed component would assist VISCA to
set up a radio station and publications office. The radio station equipped
with a 5 KW transmitter would play an important role in this region with
limited accessibility and considerable transportation problems. It would
operate ten hours a day and serve about 600,000 Visayan farmers with printed
farming information published by the VISCA.
3.17      During negotiations, the Government agreed that terms of reference
and appointments of foreign experts would be acceptable to the Bank. The
Government also agreed that VISCA would: (a) await approval from the Tech-
nical Panel for Agricultural Education before adding new fields other than
those six included in the project (para. 3.15) and before expanding enroll-
ment beyond 1,500 before 1981; (b) arrange to train about 25 and 70 staff for
Ph.D. and M.S. degrees, respectively, at higher institutes in the Philippines
with locally provided funds (para. 2.16); and (c) send to the Bank for comment
its annual development plan including budgetary information during the project
implementation period.
Philippine Training Centers for Rural Development (PTC-RD) (US$6.3 million)
3.18      The proposed investment in the PTC-RD composed of a National Train-
ing Center (NTC), five Regional Training Centers (RTCs), and six Farmer Train-
ing Centers (FTCs) would enable the Government to develop a national system
for in-service training of field extension workers and farmer leaders in sup-
port of the national food production and rural development programs. Present
in-service training for extension workers and farmer training are given on an
ad hoc basis by various agencies without coordination (para. 2.19). The proj-
ect item would aim at minimizing the need for recruitment of additional exten-
sion staff by improving the effectiveness of existing extension workers and
training farmer leaders. Physical facilities, equipment, and overseas train-
ing (three manyears) would be provided under the proposed project.
3.19      The National Training Center (NTC) (US$1.0 million) would have the
following functions: (a) provide training to trainers for the proposed RTCs;
(b) develop training curricula and extension methods adapted to the needs of
the clientele agencies; (c) develop and produce training materials; and (d)
provide technical assistance and evaluation services to the RTCs. The NTC
would be supervised directly by an Executive Director and have a full-time
core staff (about six) complemented by university faculty and other special-
ists on a part-time basis. The NTC would be located at UPLB and administra-
tively linked to the UPLB but would have an autonomous budget. This is
necessary to give the NTC independence in programming of activities and daily
operations. This arrangement would prevent undue influence of the UPLB on the
NTC's activities but would allow accessibility to the UPLB staff and facilities.



- 25 -
3.20      Five Regional Training Centers (RTCs) (US$2.5 million) would be
established at the following agricultural colleges and institutes of
technology: 1/ (a) UPLB, coordinated with the NTC; (b) Mountain State Agri-
cultural College (Northern Luzon) (c) Cagayan Valley Institute of Technology
(Northern Luzon); (d) Visayas State College of Agriculture (Eastern Visayas);
and (e) Mindanao Institute of Technology (Southern Mindanao). The specific
functions of these centers would be: (a) to analyze local needs and develop
training courses to meet these needs; (b) to give in-service training to field
staff involved in rural development work in respective service areas; and (c)
to supply feed-back for research on agricultural and other problems encountered
in the rural development process. Adequate demonstration and research farms
(at least five hectares) are available near the selected host institutions.
The RTC at UPLB would be physically integrated with the NTC and have the spe-
cific objective of serving as a research center to test and evaluate training
methodologies and materials, in addition to performing the same functions as
the other RTCs. Each RTC would have a full-time Director and technical core
staff (about seven) who would be complemented on a part-time basis by faculty
resources of the host institutions and local agriculturalists as needed. The
trainers would be selected from senior line agency staff with at least 3-5
years of field experience. About 150 prospective trainers have already been
nominated by the Department of Agriculture and other Departments involved with
rural development. Thus, the recruitment of NTC core staff and RTC trainers
is not envisaged to be a major problem. As in the case of the NTC, the RTCs
would have autonomous budgets but be administratively linked to the respective
host institutions.
3.21      Approximately 60% of the trainees at the RTCs would be extension
workers from the four Bureaus of the Department of Agriculture (Agricultural;
Extension, Plant Industry, Animal Industry, and Soils). The balance of trc>--ias
would come from the Departments of Natural Resources, Agrarian Reform, and 1-cacl
Government and Community Development.  The initial target group for in-service
training would be those extension workers directly involved with the Goverr:ment
food production programs and others who joined the extension services with the
least educational qualifications (high school graduates) and have at least one
year of field experience. The target group would be eventually broadened to
include those with college degrees without specific training in agricultural
subjects, including extension courses. The training courses would cover crops,
animal husbandry, plant protection and rural sociology, etc., and be designed
to the specific needs of each region and participating Government agencies.
The average length of the courses would be about four weeks, allowing eight
groups of 75-100 trainees each or a total of 3,600 trainees per year to receive
in-service training. By 1981, about 18,000 extension personnel would be trained
by the five RTCs, which corresponds to about 70% of the estimated total workers.
Recurrent costs for the RTCs, would be shared by the participating government
agencies during the first year of operation but would be directly appropriated
to the National Governing Board (NGB) (para 3.25) by the Budget Bureau for
subsequent operations. There would be continuing evaluation of the trainees
during the course of training followed by a final examination. Performance in
the test and post-training performance determined by the proposed monitoring
1/   The institutes of technology are essentially agricultural colleges.



- 26 -
and evaluation system (para 3.27) would form, inter alia, the basis of rewards
and promotion in service. The Government recognizes the need for incentive
measures to retain trained extension workers.
3.22      Farmer Training Centers (FTCs) (US$2.0 million) would assist the
Government in developing a pilot scheme for training farmer leaders through
short courses on agricultural technology and management support. The proposed
FTCs would aim at achieving increased food production and rural incomes by:
(a) increasing and upgrading training of farmer leaders who have had limited
access to formal training; (b) dissemination of up-to-date agricultural
knowledge and techniques geared towards solution of locally relevant rural
development problems; and (c) creation of maximum impact through cooperation
and integration of programs between the FTCs and line agencies involved in
rural development activities, particularly the Bureau of Agricultural Exten-
sion (BAEx).
3.23      The proposed six FTCs would be located at existing demonstration
stations; five operated by the Department of Agriculture (Sta. Barbara,
Pangasinan; San Mateo, Isabela; Naujan, Mindoro Oriental; Alang Alang, Leyte,
and Midsayap, Cotabato), and one by a provincial government (Bulacan). To be
selected, participants would be: (a) actively engaged in farming; (b) spon-
sored by the respective district office or local organizations; and (c) have
leadership capability. Courses for farmer leaders would be commodity-oriented
(rice, corn, poultry, swine, etc., depending on local needs), teach up-to-
date farm production technology (use of high-yield varieties, fertilizer,
pesticides, credit and marketing), and would concentrate on communication
skills and managerial aspects of agricultural and rural development programs.
The duration of courses would be about one week. These training programs are
designed to identify and develop farmer leaders who through the demonstration
of better standards of crop and animal husbandry on their own farms would
complement the efforts of the extension services and upon completion of the
training program would serve as village level contacts for the extention
service. Follow-up contacts with farmers trained would be made by extension
agents from the Department of Agriculture assisted with mobile audio-visual
aids under the proposed project (para 3.24) in close cooperation with the FTC
staff. Each center would need a core staff of five technical people who would
be recruited mainly from the Department of Agriculture staff who have exper-
ience in extension services (at least 3-5 years) and have been given special
training at the proposed NTC. Under the proposed scheme 1,500 farmer leaders
would be trained annually at each of the six FTCs. In five years time, a
total of 45,000 farmer leaders would be trained. Every trained farmer leader
would be expected to, in turn, train an average of ten farmers from his barrio,
and in all, 450,000 farmers could be reached indirectly by the program in a
five-year period. If operation of the proposed pilot scheme is successful, the
Government plans to establish a center in each of the country's 73 provinces.
3.24      The Bureau of Agricultural Extension (BAEx) (US$0.8 million) would
also be provided equipment and materials to units in the service areas of the
six FTCs to facilitate back-up support by extension personnel to FTC trained
farmer leaders and to establish a mode of extension service operations which
takes fullest advantage of the village level contacts which have been estab-
lished through the farmer leader training.



- 27 -
3.25      At present, no organization exists that is responsible for policy
and program formulation for extension and farmer training. A National Govern-
ing Board (NGB) has been established in the Department of Agriculture with
the following functions to: (a) establish general policies and guidelines
for the Rural and Farm Training Centers; (b) ensure adequate funding support
and review budgets; and (c) evaluate and monitor the performance of these
RTCs and FTCs. The Governing Board would be composed of the Secretaries of
the Government agencies concerned with agricultural extension and rural de-
velopment (Departments of Agriculture, Natural Resources, Agrarian Reform,
and Local Government and Community Development), a representative of the
National Economic Development Authority and the Executive Director of
EDPITAF. 'Che Secretary of Agriculture would be the Chairman. The Board
would be operated by an Executive Director, who would also act as Director
of the National Training Center. Separate functions of the Rural and Farm
Training Centers will be supervised by Deputy Executive Directors.
3.26      The Regional Advisory Councils would assist both the RTC and FTC
Directors :in formulating relevant training programs. The Councils would be
representecl by Regional Directors of the Government agencies concerned with
agricultural extension and rural development, by the head of host institution,
and by somebody from the private sector. Locations of proposed FTCs (para
3.22) have been chosen so that they lie within a region covered by an RTC.
3.27      The participating Secretaries have agreed on the representatives
to and the terms of reference for the National Governing Board and Regional
Advisory Councils and on the first-year funding arrangement for the proposed
Philippine Training Centers for Rural Development. The NGB Secretariat (an
Executive Director and two Deputy Directors) has been appointed. Prospective
Directors and trainers for the PTC-RDs have been trained and training pro-
grams to be given at these centers have been prepared. During negotiations,
the Government provided assurances that the NGB Secretariat would send to the
Bank for comment annual operational plan including budgetary information on
the PTC-RDs during the project implementation period.
Project Management Support (US$0.1 Million)
3.28      I'he Educational Development Projects Implementing Task Force
(EDPITAF) in the Department of Education and Culture is involved in the plan-
ning of educational development strategies, identification of priority pro-
jects, project preparation, and monitoring and evaluation of ongoing projects.
The EDPITAF, the implementing agency for the Bank Group-funded education pro-
jects, would also be responsible for preparation of the Government's comple-
tion report on the proposed fourth education project assessing its results
and the lessons learned during implementation. The proposed project would
finance fellowships for EDPITAF for two kinds of training: (a) a graduate
degree program (four man-years); and (b) a non-degree training program (three
man-years) to be composed of observation and study tours. The objectives of



- 28 -
-his proposed technical assistance are to develop a core of staff capable
of formulating and executing plans in agricultural and rural education and
training; and to oro-..ide this staff rvith new insights in the management or
operations of agricultural and rural development programs and projects.  The
proposed project would also provide two man-years of study tour for key staff
of the secretariat of the proposed Technical Panel for Agricultural Education
(para. 3.03).
Feasibility and Industrial Policy Studies ($0.4 million)
3029      Four and one-h-alf years of advisory services would be financed to
assist EDPITAF in carrying out feasibility studies for a number of future
development projects in the education sector.  At the request of the Govern-
ment and as a part of its efforts to improve its research capabilities in
economic policy areas, two years of advisory services would be financed to
assist the Philippine Center of Economic Development in conducting a workshop
and studies on industrial policy.
Monitoring and Evaluation
-0        T're Cve -nment  .ould establ ish monitoring and evaluation systems
c_c-ering the UPLB College of Forestry, UPLB Department of Animal Science, UP
College of Veterinary Medicine, and Visayas State College of Agriculture to
collect and analyze information on.  (a) the number of applicants, number
accepted, and enrollment at the beginning of each school year; (b) the number
of graduates who have completed the course within the prescribed duration of
the course5 compared with the original intake; (c) the number of graduates
employed within six months, one year, and three years after graduation; and
(d) staffing numbers. ou Lic4patlons9 and turnover.  For the proposed RTCs
and FTCs components, the iIGB monitoring unit would collect and evaluate data
on: (a) compliance with memoranda of agreement between host institutions and
rural training cen.ters; (l) select-ion and profile of trainers and trainees;
(c) utilization -o: facilities; (d) crientation of training (subiect matter
content, train4n- metThodology applied, and duration of courses); (e) efficiency
of training (before-af er m_asurements of the level of knowledge and skills,
and output); an X (f,) .-he *e-rcentage of staff retained after training who are
dischargl-r duties e2,-a-v  -,o -  eceivedi training.
3.31      Duripg negotiat-.ons the Government provided assurances that it
would establ-°sh th£ e-r-°ing and evaluation system and would provide the
Banrk ar=..la-   O'     tt 4mplemrentation period and for five years
t1-ereafte .. ah aa  e        summaries of the above informatio.- with recom-
oe'indzd m.-as.res  i. l-.crpemer--  In addotion, the Government> gave assurances
that, witk-n three months oSf the Closi-ng Date of the Loan Agreement, the
EDPITAF would prepare and send to the Bank a report providing the Govern-
m.ent's assessment of the Drojeot and the lessons learned during implementa-
tion (paraO 3.28).



- 29 -
IV. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
Cost of the Project
4.01      Summary of Project Cost.  The total cost of the project is estimated
at P 339.5 million or US$45.3 million equivalent (Annex 9).  The estimated
cost by main project items is summarized below:
Pesos (millions)          US$ (millions)
Project Items            Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total
1. University of the
Philippines Los Banos
College of Forestry          9.6   14.5    24.1    1.3    1.9    3.2
Dept. of Animal Sc. /a    17.4   15.5    32.9    2.3    2.1    4.4
College of Vet. Medicine  14.2   15.2    29.4    1.9    2.0    3.9
UPLB Tech. Assistance        1.0   17.5    18.5    0.1    2.4    2.5
Sub-Total           42.2   62.7   104.9    5.6    8.4   14.0
2. Visayas State College
of Agriculture (VISCA)    43.3   52.3    95.6    5.7    7.0   12.7
3. Philippine Training Centers
for Rural Development
National Center /b           4.4    3.3       7.7    0.6    0.4    1.0
Five Regional Centers       11.0    7.6    18.6    1.5    1.0    2.5
Six Farmer Training
Centers                    8.1   12.7    20.8    1.1    1.7    2.8
Sub Total          23.5   23.6    47.1    3.2    3.1    6.3
4. Prolect Management
Support and Studies         0.2    3.3      3.5    0.1    0.4    0.5
Base Costs                    109.2  141.9   251.1   14.6   18.9   33.5
Contingencies                  42.8   45.6    88.4    5.7    6.1   11.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS           152.0  187.5   339.5   20.3   25.0   45.3
/a   Includes facilities required for animal technician training and an
Animal Disease Diagnostic Center.
/b   Includes the regional centre at Los Banos.



- 30 -
A b-eakdown of estimated project costs into local aad foreign
a:&c elamenLts by categories of expenditure is summarized as follows:
Pesos (millions)         US$ (millions)
Category of Expenditure    Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total
Civil Works:
Site Development           16.7    8.3    25.0   2.2    1.1        3.3
-^;ademic & Communal       47.0   23.2    70.2   6.3    3. 1       9.4
Student Boarding           11.7    5.7    17.4   1.6    0.7        2.3
Staff Housing              11.7    5.7    17.4   1.6    0.7        2.3
S-db-total                 87.1   42.9   130.0  11.7    5.6    17.3
Furniture                      5.8    2.8      8.6   0.7    0.4      1.1
Equipment                      6.6   59.8    66.4   0.9    8.O       8.9
Professional Services          7.9    1.4      9.3   1.0    0,2      1.2
Technical Assistance;
Fellowships                  1.5   29.2    30.7   0.2    3.9       4.1
Specialists services        0.3    5.8      6.1   0.1    0.8       0.9
Sub-total                   1.8   35.0    36.8   0.3    4.7        5.0
Base Costs                   109.2  141.9   251.1  14.6   18.9    33.5
Contingencies
Physical                    7.4    9.1    16.5  10    1.2         2.2
Price Increases            35.4   36.5    71.9   4.7    4.9        9.6
Sub-total Contingencies      42.8   45.6    88.4   5.7    6.1    11.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          152.0  187.5   339.5  20.3   25.0    45.3
4.03      Bases of Cost Estimates.  Costs of the project buildings have been
deter-mined by:  (a) estimating the required academic and communal facilities
for the planned numbers of students and staff, assuming that a rotating class-
room system would be used; (b) assessing the boarding requirements as a func-
tion of planned enrollment, student catchment areas, minimum area require-
ments/student and the availability of nearby lodging; (c) assessing the mini-
mum staff housing requirements to attract qualified staff, in relation to
total number of staff and availability of housing within coamuting distance;
(d) subtracting usable existing facilities from (a-c) above; and (e) estab-
'ishing the estimated area unit costs.  The resultant colts are appropriate to
th'e planned student enrollments,  Area unit costs (per m ) have been determined
by using construction costs (February 1976) in the Second Education Project
(Credit 349-PH) updated for inflation and costs of other comparable, recently



- 31 -
constructed, buildings in the Philippines. Costs per square meter of gross
floor area range from US$70 for animal houses to US$185 for un27ersity build-
ings. These unit prices are reasonable for the Philippines and the intended
purpose of the structures. Cost adjustments for locations have been incorpor-
ated in the building costs of the individual project items. Estimated site
development costs are partly based on analyses of costs at comparable sites
and partly on detailed engineering studies (VISCA). These costs range from
10% to 40% of estimated building costs, depending on the conditions of the
various sites.
4.04      The cost of professional services has been determined by using the
applicable fee-scale of the Philippine Institute of Architects which amounts
to about 8% of construction costs and by estimating requirements for engineer-
ing services. Furniture cost estimates are based on recent information ob-
tained from bid results in the Second Education Project (Cr 349-PH). The cost
of equipment has been determined from approximate lists of quantities related
to the teaching programs. Fellowships costs have been estimated at about
US$12,000 per man-year, expert costs at US$55,000 per man-year.
4.05      Areas and Costs per Training Place. The facilities to be con-
structed at VISCA and the University of the Philippines are extensions to
existing facilities. Area comparisons with other institutions are conse-
quently difficult. At VISCA, the Government intends to complete the con-
struction of the facilities indicated in the following table by December 1977.
Construction of these facilities is estimated to cost about US$3.2 million,
and will be financed solely by the Government (para 2.15). Existing facil-
ities (January 1976) of VISCA would be used as a high school, primary school,
boarding and staff housing. Taking existing and proposed facilities into
account, area provision per student place in the academic and communal facil-
ities is as follows [a comparison is made with a similar, Bank-funded project
(Loan 822-TH), Kasetsart University in Thailand]:
Areas per Student Place (m )
UPCVM/DAS                Kasetsart
Academic and Communal Facilities       COMPLEX       VISCA   (Loan 802-TH)
Central Teaching Premises
(Government funded)                n.a.            2.3         1.7
Departmental Premises
(Bank funded)                       12.2          13.1        17.9
Other Academic and Communal Pre-
mises (70% Government funded)       n.a.           7.0          4.3
Areas and costs required for each trainee can be determined more appropriately
for the RTCs and the FTCs--the only new institutions in the project. Areas
per training place are within the range of other Bank projects. Comparison of



- 32 -
areas with other institutions should be made with caution because of differ-
ences in levels, length, complexity and specialization of the offered courses.
The following average costs are net of contingency allowances and professional
fees. The number of training places indicates the capacity at any given moment;
yearly enrollment figures would be seven times higher for the RTCs and twelve
times higher for the FTCs.
Gross Areas (m )           Costs in US$ per training/
boarding/housing units
Bank
Median
Rural     in FY74-75
Training  for post-
Centers   secondary   Site    Build-  Furni-  Equip-
(RTCs)    agri. inst. Dev.'t  ings    ture    ment   Total
(a) Academic and
Communal      7.9        11.4        147      1,473    116      945   2,681
(b) Boarding        9.9         10.4       177      1,769    177       -    2,123
(c) Housing       103.0         99.0     1,500    15,000      -        -   16,500
Bank
Median
Farmer    in FY74-75
Training  for non-
Centers    formal      Site    Build-  Furni-  Equip-
(FTCs)    adult educ. Dev.'t  ings    ture    ment   Total
(a) Academic and
Communal     5.0         8.6         107      1,070     83   1,571   2,724
(excl. farm
building)
(b) Boarding        9.3         7.5 /a     160      1,596    160      -     1,916
(c) Housing       104.0       99.0       1,422    14,220      -       -    15,642
/a   Secondary level institutions.
4.06      Customs Duties and Taxes.  All items specifically imported for the
proposed project would be exempted from direct customs duties and taxes in
accordance with Presidential Decree No. 6A of 1972. Materials acquired locally,
however, would be subject to taxation. Major levies include the following:
(a) 20% customs duties on c.i.f. prices for imported items; (b) 3% on the gross
value of construction as contractors' tax; (c) 4% on payable wages as employers'
contribution to social security; and (d) 3% sales tax on imported and locally



- 33 -
produced iltems. Of the estimated civil works costs, about 15%, or US$2.6
million equivalent, would represent customs duties and taxes. The total cus-
toms duty/tax component of the project is estimated at US$3.3 million.
4.07      (ontingency Allowances.  For unforeseen events, an average of 6.5%
has been added to the base costs of the project. Estimated price increases
are based on the following annual escalation rates, calculated from the base
cost date (January 1977) in accordance with the implementation schedule,
shown in Annex 10.
Annual Escalation
Civil Works, Furniture and    Equipment and Technical
Year          Professional Services              Assistance
1977                 12%                              8%
1978                 10%                              8%
1979                 10%                              8%
1980                 10%                              7%
1981                 10%                              7%
4.08      Foreign Exchange Component.  The calculations of the foreign ex-
change component are based on the expectation that: (a) civil works, furni-
ture and consultancy contracts (except for a short term assignment in campus
planning) would be awarded to local firms; (b) all major equipment would be
directly imported; (c) locally procured equipment would be of mixed local/
foreign origin; and (d) technical assistance financed under the project would
consist mainly of foreign fellowships. The foreign exchange composition of
the various categories of expenditure has been analyzed by determining taxes,
profits, overheads, materials, equipment and labor contents of locally pro-
cured civil works, goods and services; and assessing the foreign exchange
content of each sub-component of the above mentioned breakdown. The result-
ant foreign exchange content of each category of expenditure is as follows:
(a) civil works, 33%; (b) furniture, 33%; (c) equipment, 90%; (d) civil works
design services, 15%; (e) campus planning (mixed foreign/local), 20%; and
(f) technical assistance, (mainly foreign fellowships) 95%.
Project Financing
4.09      The total project cost of US$45.3 million would be financed as
follows: (a) the proposed Bank loan of US$25.0 million (55% of total project
cost) would meet the foreign exchange cost; and (b) the Government would
finance the remaining cost of US$20.3 million (45% of total project costs).
The loan would be repayable over a period of 20 years with a grace period of
four and one half years. The financial plan is indicated in the following
table:



- 34 -
US$ million equivalent         Percentage
Category             Government   Bank   Total       Bank Financing
1. Civil Works                      11.7       5.6    17.3            33
2. Furniture                         0.7       0.4      1.1           33
3. Equipment                         0.9       8.0      8.9           90
4. Professional fees                 0.6       0.6      1.2           50
5. Technical Assistance                -       5.0      5.0          100
Contingencies                     6.4       5.4    11.8            -
TOTAL                            20.3      25.0    45.3            55
Less Duties and Taxes             3.3        -       3.3            -
Total Net of Taxes               17.0      25.0    42.0            60
About 55% of the Government's total capital contribution to the project
(US$11.5 million equivalent) would be payable in fiscal year 1978.
4.10      Recurrent Cost.  The annual additional recurrent expenditure
generated by this project when it is in full operation in 1981 would be
about P 30.0 million in January 1977 prices. These additional expenditures
include salaries, domestic fellowships, transportation, educational and
operational supplies and maintenance costs of physical facilities and equip-
ment.
Implementation
4.11      The project would be completed by September 1981.  An additional
three months would be required for completion of payments and withdrawals
from the Loan account. The proposed Closing Date would be December 31, 1981
(Annex 10).
4.12      Administration.  The existing project unit (EDPITAF), in the
Department of Education and Culture would be responsible for administration,
procurement, financial control and liaison with the Bank in all aspects of
the project. EDPITAF which is in charge of the Government's planning of
education development strategy, the identification of priority projects,
project preparation, evaluation and monitoring, is also in charge of the
implementation of the second and third education projects (Credit 349-PH and
Loan 1224 T-PH), respectively. The only aspect of the project, not controlled
by EDPITAF would be teaching programs of the Philippine Training Centers for
Rural Development (PTC-RDs) which would be the responsibility of a National
Governing Board Secretariat which has been established as an attached



- 35 -
agency in the Department of Agriculture (para 3.27). EDPITAF has recently
organized coordinating committees to ensure that the procurement of civil
works, furniture and equipment is economically implemented and co-ordinated
with the education programs. EDPITAF has exercised an effective cost control
of civil works during the sketch plan stage of the project. An organization
chart of EDPITAF is shown in Chart 3.
4.13      Physical Design Services.  Master planning of VISCA has been carried
out by consultants experienced in campus planning assisted by a short-term
foreign consultant. Local as well as foreign consultants were selected and
appointed by EDPITAF in consultation with the Bank. Master planning of UPLB
is currently being carried out by local planners, financed by the Government.
Acceptable sketch plans for all project institutions have already been pre-
pared. Design and supervision of civil works for VISCA and the UPLB is being
carried out by local consultants, selected and appointed in the same manner
as the campus planners. The civil works division of EDPITAF has prepared
sketch plans for the RTC and FTC components of the project and is expected
to carry out most of the remaining design and supervision work for these com-
ponents with resultant savings in professional fees.
4.14      Sites.  Satisfactory sites have already been acquired for all
project institutions. In conformity with the VISCA master plan, the Govern-
ment would' undertake to realign the national road, bisecting the site prior
to the scheduled start of construction of buildings.
4.15      Procurement.  Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment
would be grouped to the maximum extent possible and awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group Guide-
lines except as follows:
(a) civil works contracts (total value about US$5.5 million),
estimated to cost less than US$700,000 equivalent each,
which are units (RTCs and FTCs) to be constructed on
scattered locations and therefore unlikely to arouse the
interest of international construction companies;
(b) furniture and equipment bid packages (total value about
US$2.0 million), estimated to cost less than US$50,000
each, which are not expected to interest foreign suppliers
because of the variety of the contents of each contract;
and
(c) furniture for VISCA, estimated at about US$200,000 equiva-
lent, would be produced by the College's own maintenance and
production workshop ("Force Account Method"') which is presently
producing furniture of acceptable quality for the Government-
funded buildings at VISCA at a cost of about 70% of local market
prices.
The sum of US$200,000 represents estimated capacity limitations of the work-
shop, and accounts for about one third of VISCA's total furniture requirements.



- 36 -
The expec_ted extent of foreign participation ir. procurement is detailed in
para 4.08,  Local biddars for furniture and equipment, offering goods to be
procured in accordance wi-h international competitive bidding procedures,
would be allowed a 15% preferential margin or the existing rate of import
duties, whichever is the lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign
suppliers. Contracts for items procured under (a) and (b) above would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised lecally in accordance
with Government procurement practices which are acceptable to the Bank.
Foreign bidders would be allowed to participate. In addition, miscellaneous
items, in contracts not exceeding US$10,000 equivalent, subject to an aggregate
total of US$250,000 equivalent, could be purchased on the basis of a minimum
of three price quotations. Books (estimated value Us$0.31 million) would be
procured directly from authorized distributors after negotiations for bulk
purchases.
4.16      Bank Review and Approval.  Master furniture and equipment lists,
fellowship programs and draft tender and contract documents would be reviewed
and approved by the Bank upon completion of the documents. Review of tender
evaluation documents would be required prior to the award of civil works con-
tracts exceeding US$200,000 equivalent and furniture and equipment contracts
exceeding US$50,000 equivalent0
Disbursements
4e17      The proposed loan of US$25.0 million would cover 55% of the esti-
mated project cost of US$4503 million and would finance 100% of the foreign
exchange component0 The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of
five years (Annex 11)   Disbursements would be on the basis of:
(a)  33% of the cost of civil works and furniture;
(b3  50%. of the cost of master plannlng and civil works designs;
(c)  100%  f foreign exLend  tur  for directly importecd equipment
and materials anrd ex-factory price of locally manufactured
eaqu  uipen -C
(d)  65% of the cost of i.ported but locally procured equipment;
and
(e)  100% of the cost of technical assistance.
Disbursement requests would be supnorted by full documenta-ion, except for
expenditures for furniture productio-n at VISCA (about US$0o2 million). This
would be disbursed against a statement of expenditure, signed by the Project
Director.  Thie documentation for these statements would be retained by EDPITAF
and be available for review by the Bank during project supervision missions.
Withdrawal applications would be aggregated in groups of a minimum of US$50,000
prior to submission to the Bank lor reimbursement from the proceeds of the
proposed loan.  Expendit7sres on orofessional services ano- technical assistance
incurred after Mav 1i 1976 and September 1, 1976, respect TVely are recommended
for retroacti4Ve financing up to a total of US$450,000 equ- ,alent.



- 37 -
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.01      Benefits.  The proposed project would assist the Government in the
implementation of its strategy to rationalize and improve the agricultural
education and training system. The UPLB including the Colleges of Agricul-
ture and 'Forestry, Department of Animal Science, and the College of Veterinary
Medicine would be strengthened as strong national centers of excellence and
major sources of competent manpower and technical advice. The proposed
assistance to VISCA would provide a third major region with a strong agricul-
tural col:Lege to pursue regionally focussed applied research and extension
training, supply necessary manpower, and help in the development of other
institutions in the Visayas. In addition, the proposed project would help
in meeting the following percentages of the projected annual national manpower
needs between 1976-1985: the College of Forestry, 25%; the College of Vete-
rinary Medicine, 64%; the Department of Animal Science, 23%; and the VISCA,
18% of the regional agricultural manpower needs. Despite the project there
would still be sizeable manpower deficits. These deficits are the inevitable
result of the time lag involved in increasing the output of well-trained
graduates. The project, however, has been geared to the maximum feasible
rate of expansion which takes into account quality improvement and absorptive
capacity. The consequences of the deficits would mean that agencies able to
offer better salaries would continue to attract and employ well-trained
graduates.
5.02      The proposed Philippine Training Centers for Rural Development com-
posed of national and regional RTCs and FTCs would assist Government invest-
ment programs in increasing production in crops and livestock. By 1981 the
proposed five Rural Training Centers component would provide in-service train-
ing to about 18,000 field workers, representing about 90% of the projected
total number of extension workers in the Department of Agriculture and 40%
of the total number of field staff of the Departments of Natural Resources,
Agrarian Reform and Local Government and Community Development. These im-
provements would give practically all farming households in the Philippines
(2.3 million) access to the services of well-trained extension workers by
1985, provided that the extension service is rationalized so that there is no
duplication of effort (para. 2028). The proposed six FTCs would be able to
train 9,000 farmer leaders annually (1,500 farmer leaders at each of the pro-
posed six centers) and a total of 45,000 farmer leaders in five years time.
Every farmer leader trained directly would be expected to impart knowledge
and skills learned to ten farmers in his village and, in all, about 450,000
farmers would benefit indirectly from the farmer leader training programs in
a five-yeaLr period. Among the important potential benefits of both the rural
and farmer training programs would be to keep farmers abreast of development
of new seed varieties.



- 38 -
Risks
5.03      The contribution of the proposed project to improvement of the
agricultural education system will depend g&eatly on the effectiveness or
the newly established Technical Panel for Agricultural Education. There
is a risk that the powers of the panel may be insufficient to accomplish,
through accreditation, the required consolidation of substandard institu-
tions and control of future enrollment growth. As a measure to minimize the
potential risk, the responsibilities, staffing and performance of the Panel
would be reviewed periodically by the Bank.
5.04      Realization of benefits from improved training would require
parallel improvements in the organization of Government agencies and salary
scales of posts. Although the increased supply of quality manpower from
the project would probably reduce vacancies in the private sector and mini-
mize salary differentials between the public and private sector, Government
agencies may not be able to attract sufficient manpower to implement develop-
ment programs if government agencies continue to offer lower salaries. Al-
though the Government has not yet indicated that salary scales will be raised,
it is studying the problem. Similarly, organizational changes are required
if the graduates of project institutions are to be utilized effectively.
This applies particularly to the agriculture extension services. The Govern-
ment is undertaking a management audit of its extension services which should
provide the basis for needed reorganization. Several potential risks are
contained in the rural training and farmer training components, largely
due to the multitude of agencies involved. These are: (a) failure of the
utilizer agencies to comply with commitments made to sponsor trainers and
trainees; (b) use of the facilities for irrelevant purposes; and (c) undue
influence on training programs by the host institutions.
5.05      The project design includes measures to minimize these risks.
During implementation, these critical factors would be kept under close
review. Despite these various risks, the expected benefits of the proposed
project point to its suitability for inclusion in the education development
investment program of the Philippines.



- 39 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the following principal points:
(a) the Technical Panel for Agricultural Education would be
maintained and staffed adequately (para 3.03);
(b) terms of reference and appointments of foreign experts
would be acceptable to the Bank (paras. 3.09 and 3.17);
(c) the UPLB and VISCA would train staff at local institutions
(paras. 3.13 and 3.17);
(d) the VISCA would (i) await approval from the Technical Panel
for Agricultural Education before adding new fields and
expanding enrollment, and (ii) prepare annual development
plans (para. 3.17);
(e) the National Governing Board Secretariat would prepare
annual operational plans for the Philippine Centers for
Rural Development (para 3.27); and
(f) EDPITAF would prepare selected project monitoring indicators
and a report providing Government's preliminary assessment
of the project (para. 3.31).
6.02      It is recommended that expenditures incurred after May 1, 1976
for fellowship programs up to US$300,000 (para. 3.13) and for the preliminary
architectural works up to US$150,000 (para. 4.17) be financed retroactively.
6.03      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$25.0 million equivalent to the
Republic of the Philippines for a term of 20 years, including a four and
one-half year grace period.



- 40 -
VII. RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   General Reports and Studies on Agricultural Education, Research and
Manpower
1.   Economic Development Foundation, Selected Data on Philippine
Education, Technical Bulletin/16, October, 1974.
2.   Philippine Council for Agriculture and Resources Research (PCARR),
Manpower Resources in Philippine Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry
Research 1973-74.
3.   PCARR, Agricultural Research Thrusts in the Philippines for the
1970s.
4.   PCARR, Total Requirement for the Full Development of the Philippine
Agricultural Research Capability.
5.   University of the Philippines, Toward Developing an Effective
Agricultural Research System in the Philippines, June, 1974.
6.   National Manpower and Youth Council, Interim Manpower Plan,
FY74-77.
7.   M.D. Leonor, Jr., Labor Market of High-Level Manpower in
Agriculture, Philippines, 1975.
8.   Florentino Librero, Rationalizing Manpower for Agriculture in
the Philippines.
B.   General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1.   Educational Development Projects Implementing Task Force (EDPITAF),
Rural Development Sector - Baseline Data (Agriculture, Fisheries,
Forestry, Veterinary Medicine), January 1976.
2.   EDPITAF, Rural Development Sector Project Proposals (Fourth
Educational Loan), January, 1976.
3.   EDPITAF, Philippine Training Centers for Rural Development, Four
Volumes, October 1976.
4.   EDPITAF, Rural Development Sector, Equipment List, January 1976.
5.   Visayas State College of Agriculture (VISCA), VISCA Development
Goals and Plans for 1975-80.
6.   VISCA, Achieving Relevance through Innovative Curricular Programs
and Non-Formal Education.



- 41 -
7.   VISCA, Research for Regional Agricultural and Rural Development.
8.   VISCA, A Staff Study Report on Trained Agricultural Manpower
Demand and Supply in the Visayas, 1975.
C.   Working Papers, Drawings and Tables
1.   K.A. Hansson (Agricultural Extension - consultant), The Proposed
Assistance for Agricultural Extension and Farmer Training,
March 17, 1976.
2.   H. Hilmi (Forestry - FAO consultant), The Proposed Assistance to
the University of the Philippines College of Forestry, March 18,
1976.
3.   G.L. McClymont, The Proposed Assistance to the University of the
Philippines College of Veterinary Medicine and the Department of
Animal Science at Los Banos, March 25, 1976.
4.   G.L. McClymont, Revised Working Paper on the Proposed Assistance
to the UPCVM and UPLB-DAS, December 6, 1976.
5.   Educational Working Papers.
6.   Architectural Working Papers.
7.   Site Information.
8.   Contingency Allowance Calculations.
9.   Foreign Exchange Calculations.
10.   Manpower Sensitivity Analyses.
11.   Project Institution Financial Data.
12.   Bidding Procedure Including Evaluation and Award.






COMPARATIVE  EDUCATION  INOICATORS                                                                         ANNEX  I
a....a.... **.A ..........
F'ESRU&RY 4.tq77 I
.................
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I GNP/  I  I  GNP    I%  TOTALIX   OF  PUBLIC  II                                                   IPRI.  [AV.PRI.   I                                    SEC    7
CAPITAI  DEVOTEDIPUSLIC                 EDUCIITION         tLITER-t                 tCOMPLE-  ISTUT  ISCH  TEACH:PR  GRES:-:,SFC,,
AT   3TO  EDU.I Exp.:RECURRENT                          IACY         tEPNRRIOZLtTI ON          ID EN  3I3AL;RV  IN  IOON  RAT                NRO    ;3DTENTS;HI1EI1:3
I!         tmARKETi  (PUBLICIDEVOTEDIEXP  ALLOCATEnt   RATE  IRATIO  IRATE  FORsp                                        tRELATION  :FROH,PRI.IRATIO  IPERC,:ENROLL;
r. pop.  tpRICESI EX                t To         t         TOt          I (,, OF     INET IPRIaC HITEEARCHI  TO  GNP/   TO  8  C.   INET    ITEA                                  RATIO:
YP                          ON%) I              U.  'PR I.       C.  HI.:A DU   3) I                I     LE    ;IF         t  CA PI TA    a C",                I%)   IER            C%)
:,MILLS.;  (USS).3         L            ED                SE                 LT IM             SCYC
23   (21  t   (1)          t (4) 1               (5)              (6)      1(7) 1                                   (JO)       t(11)             (12)
-------------------------------------------------------------                                                                                                                                  1(13)  1(14)
ADVANCED
; u- s- ; 1-1 ; I-I   1 3     7 . r,   1,510          11.3       9.9         470   290   allO          99         98           93           26           2 . 0          qq           5 1         1 9        60 0
tokwADA               72   22 .10  S  4r10 ri         7  I      19 .4        30      18      19        96         09           98           Z41          2. 0           gq           82          1 7        9.00
rERMANY  F.REP.72   62.OD  9 , 3200                   4. 2      14 .2        - . . 74-   ?6            99         91           9q           33           ...            99           9 1        22        17.OOCY
JAPAN                 71  1 08. 30  3,63no            1I. 3     20.7         39      18      12        99         990          qQC          2rlc         2 . 0          99C          Q4D        ?Oc       28.00D
NETHERLANDS           72    11.4 04,i3no              8.5       O. I G       32      (ir     Iq        99         95           99           ?g                          ql           73         20        I I0 o
"EW  ZEALAND          73      2  9 3  6 8,1           s  239                         ?4      q        99         99           99           26                          99           67           g       24  Do
NOR.A,                72      3: 9D  41615110         7:o         ;:2       r, 8     21      13        99         99           98           2t           1              99           76         11 41     I I0 o
tWEDEN                71      (t1 99 I 0              89        6.0         36      1 4     1 3       99         99           gq           1 7                         9 0          85          10       3 o0 o
U  K.                 72   55  1) 030 6 0             6326                           39        2       98           q                       26            ...                        ti           7        II o
7?         4            D          1)     t2.7         ... 73         27        99         q9                                      ?                          q I         II?
0.     62               6.         S . 42g                                                                       U                                                          2
U:S.A.                     21      D          0                                                                                             29                                                              9.0 o
EUROPE
EECC               7 t     a90I870r)               2294Y   1 9 Y 14Y                               82A         95Y          ...          I?y         ...             I 0 A        58V        -Iy       II , 0 o
A  D                       ODztrol)                I      ":I
IRELUN                72      5 :                               I,  -,l     4 3 Y III Y       14 y    98         97           99A                      ...             q5k          75          1%         7 . 0 I A
PORT  GAL             7;1     9.IDI4 I'll                                                                           'XY                                                                5xv                  7  6 0 I
3PAIN                                                     ;11 1y9 1 34  ID 7I01)                                                                                                       9 A                  6:(OA
AFRICA
A    ER               75    15.7          7 7 8       7.                     4 1 r 12G    IBG          so         76           t,?E         42E          6. I) C,       419F         IT          2s         4 . 0 0
BENIN                 7 ;     2. 9        1 1 a       S.3       32. 0        47      03      1 U       I I        32xs         71,9         50R         21, . oii       11 3 B         7 -3      39H        0.44cy
BUT   D  A            711    U  I         3oo         9  n      20U1                                   25         7OX          79           3 11                        214          13X                        3oy
AN                                                                            20        2       10         2OX          III                                      14             2x
2W                                                                      3FI
BUR  N  I             7ti    3: cl       292          2: r,     1 99Q        47R    il R     19 9?                                          3e
r                                    y       y       y
CAMEROON              7 I     62O         1Inn        99        2(IU         38      29      1 774                                          9 I DY                                     9
C.A  R                                     6(         ti 'I       0          96                                                                                                                  23cy       0  90cy
N 219                             ...                 64C y        A,           69CY                                       5cy       ? 7,3y     ')
CHA;                  7 r,     4.01)    n8ob           3:::     0:u         78      112       -       15,        24WBY        It,          6 r, P Y    I                 a            21b y                0  i,15;y
CONGO(S)              714     13                      6.          9. 3       40      12      21        1 0       ilix          63           63           6              'I           3
EGYPT                 74   364            2 a 0       93a9                           16      24        40                                                                 8            3A        P2         3  c
74X          45           4 O        ...               4            9 x                   I  I 0
ETmropik              73   26                                                                                                                                                        3           28        I
r                   31        20  U        42B                         7        i7c          42                        3                             2         30
7 I     US           1          5I       20  6        ?S                                   8 11 13Y     2 r,         116
GABON                           :      , I%                                                                                      C            C                           A         20C         21C        1:40cy
GHANA                 7 1     qII)    3 0,10          11x                                                                      62                        9                I            I         1 6            7 413 Y
7     2 4.4DR      IR 0 t0 2 3"                              C Y                                                               x
9 6           7A          4 6                                                 2 5            2 t) F1
IVORY  COAST                                                                                                                                   C y                                                  C Y
IMD       38 or)       63N   247              279Y   3BY1I y             9 A
KENYA                 7't   1 211         1 7 0       64
270         6 3      11      11       4 0         7 3          . . .        4                                                   2 3            033v
LESOTHO               7r      I2          II ON      I?  (VP   2 3           14 9    18      2 O       4 0        8 5          51)          S 2          7                                       2
LIBERIA               7 r,    Ir,        1191)        2:11        3: 'a       27     I 5     20        73         98                        35           ?:"            M I          I, 2,       2 b
MALANT  CAR           74      a8             0r)      3  1      201?                                                           ;II                                     "I A           9         2b          I.co
MADAGAS               74         6        1  "        3.2       I 2.         9 1       14    2 v,      4 0        68-                       6 S         Ir,  )
4.  D      I I t)                2 g          ...   ...   ...           25         56X          6o           s 0           7o            4 o            4 X       2 0         0.26cy
MALI                  74'.    9  3D        7 (D       11 6N    32 : 03       16 a 52"    12M                                                                                           4A        1 7 A      0. 16AY
onl        1; r,    2t           ...   I . . . . .s22                                                                                      3         24
MAURITANIA            7       1: 21)     2                                                             11 00 C    I FIXA       22A          4i 0 A      1 q.            37A
I
MAURITIUS             72      U.8p       11 I OD      3. 7      1 1 . 7DG   71       1 0       4       80         86           99           3 1                                      3 1         30         1  47cy
MOROCCO               711   Is.9          '20         r,.(C   16.9           44      47        9       26?        54X          21           37                                                   ;.1 1      2  0 0
NIGERIA               71   71 . 2r,                                                                                                                                     ii,          13K
2 IOD       3.2N   ...             40A   P14A   8JA          ...        39xcy                     34cy          ...           ...            4         2ncy       o.37cy
RWANDA                71      3.9D         7no        3-?C   28.0D           ...        ...      ...   23         52           ...          ri            ...           ...            2         13         0.23cy
SENEGAL               7 1     4 . o n    28nD         11 . ON   22,5DR   38A   112A            SA      I 0        3ax          ...          a6                                         I x       ?5         17 1 q Y
SIERRA  LEONE   73            2. 7        lbo         S. 4      23. 4        3 1     36      II        IS?        14X          45                                                      ; x                  0.53gy
SOMAL IA              75                                                                                                                    32             :E          ;;,
3 . 2      1 0          3. 7 0   I -i .8G     4 9 0    16Q    190       so?         34X         86            39         III. 0          60             1         1 5         0I 0
3UDAN                 72   1 7. 0 0       1 inn       4 . r,    I 3 .2      14 3     ?9      28        Is         la           75           4 r,         O . 0          25           11          2 0        1.23Y
3WAZILAND             7r      U , S      4 7 0        11. 5     14,0         37      3 1     1 3       so         73G          so           I8           3. o           84           1 9         22
TANZANIA              114   1 3. ?C       I I ac      S. I N 1 7. U          16      ...   1 2         63                                                                                                   2. 0 0
414 X        ...          4 9          ...             7            2         21C         o.30
TUNISIA               7          1 D     11 6 n r)    6. 3      23. 4        3 7     14 3    1 8       515        72           8 1          4 1          6.0            3 I          1 4         2 I        3 . 0 0
UGANDA                71)   10.RD         I 5 Or      S.2N    17.6CR   'IOG    ?2U   2 r, 0            25A        uaxcy        ...          if,           ...           14A            4 x C Y   2 1        0.58BY
UPPER  VOLTA          72      S. 7 D       7OD        q .,)    23.9          6s      11)       6        5          I r,                     a r,        18.0            2o             2         23         00 1 8
ZAIRE                 73   23 .14         1 11 n      'i.?CN  21.3C          94C    17C   2qC          I r,       63           38           44A          6 . 0          113            8         ;?4        V.968Y
ZAMBIA                74      4 . 7      118 2.       S.3       14.2         34      is      16        43         68           8,1          il 7         q , j          20            13         22         1.00
ENTRAL AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
0  T       C                 t .           -) ;---
DM                                         7          S.?       22. 7        9 7     ?"      1 2       8 9        86cy          6 r,         29           3.u           58           22cy        25        1 2. 1 1 C y
0  INICAN  REP.721   14 .141)                        3.,,      13.Q        42       ?4      22       151         81)          tT           S4           3.Of           63           11.5       24          7.00
EL  SALVADOR          79      3.70        le(l)       3.6       23.8         61        9     22        608         6sc          ...          lqcy         ...           39            13)(11     21cy        4.35,3y
GUATEMALA             73      S.1        1100          1.9      16.u        r, r,    23       14       47         64           26            is           3.0           69             8         25         4.09Y
MAIrl                 72      4 . 4 D     ISOD        n.9         6.6D       61      it        8       zoo        22            29?          4c           9.0           50             3         23          1.00?
HONDURAS              72      2.7D       32,11)       3. 9      26.90        611     1 3     1 8       5 2        81X           1 8          3 7          6,            7 5
JAMAICA               7 2     1 .90      990D         6.SY    1 9. 7         33Y   22Y         7 Y     8 6       106XY          ...         9 2           ...            ...          32XY       I 9         U.79Y
MEXICO                TO   36 , 0 0      69AD         ?.6         9. 3       134    11 41    1 2       7 6         7 1          I I          4 6          3.              3
NICARAGUA             74      2.00       1114 (D      p . S     111.2        61      13      13        97         65            21           31           2.0           93            17         24          t.00
TRINIOAD  &  T.  71           I.ODI3 1 1) D           ,.l      I Fl . 9       3     ?7      12        90         99X           87           3 11         4 . 0          Is           49         2S          2.56AY
SOUTH AMERICA
;K]VI
;           76      5 . Fl      3 1 SF      15. (      17.97        ...  ...        ...      38          178          290          24           SF             ...            40        18D        ...
BRAZIL                74  I(I.ID         76OD         II . 3    t2.OC        42      2 O       37      79          say          ...          27CY         ...            ...          IBB        ISCY        6 . 0 0 a
CHILE                 72   IO.2D         72OD         4.6Y    10,6AY   36Y   14Y   36Y                 ...       IIIXDY         ...          378Y         ...            ...          48XDY    ...           ...
COLOM81A              II   22  SD        411111D      II: 0     1 TO:9       35       18     20        73          67           2v           36           4.0            go             1         14         4.00
ECUADOR               72      6. TD       380D         3  7     2 IC         450Y  112gy  IOQY   69                72           ...          36                                       I
GUYANA                74      0 . 7      4 I OD       9.8N   1 4 .19         47      35       1 4      83A                                                               ...          I a         1 4        4.97BY
PARAGUAY                                                                                                           9ax          39           is           6.0            19           62X        24          1.00
74      2. 4 0     3 7 4        1.8       I I . U1 3                   22        8 I        8 2          2 6          3 I          49             6 5          I I         1 2        50 0
PERU                  7 1 1 4 . 9 D      62nD         4.5       24.to        9 0      2      1 5      7 2         81)          I a          39DY         3. U           70           30         23DY    1 2 . 0 0
VENEZUELA             73    11.2    1,6iO             A.6       19.9         300   ?80   350           77A         81                        Is           2.4            ...          33          ...      12.63CY



ComPARATIOE EDUCATION INDICATORS   ICONTS)                                      ANNEX t  PAGE 2
1 FEBRVUARY 4,1077
I   I       I ~        ~ ~ ~             ~ U  I   I         I        I          I      I           I            I       I       I       9
I  IGNP/ I % GNP   it TOTALEX   OP PUBLIC I                I        I          iRBI. IAR.PRI.   a             I        :8EC  ta
*    CAPITAI  DEVOTECIPUBLZC * EDIUCATION    tLITER-. I PR. aCONPLE:  oSTU- *SHTAMPCBEB    E. JEll)- I                                  I
i   AT   a TO ECU.1  EXP. I RECURRENT    :ACY               IENROLLITION        :CENTSIBALARY INION RATE :ENRtOLL:DENTS.HIGHER:
IMARXET: CPUBLICICEVOTECIEXOP  ALLOCATED:   RATE IRATIO IRATE FORsPCB IRELATIIIN ,FROHEPRI.:RATIO iPER   SEW!NR'OLLI
i POP. IPRICESI EOP.    I  TO    I           TO$       aCt% OF  I NCr  :PRI.SCN.aTEAM   TO GNP/  iT  SEC    * NET   ITECH   RATIO:
YP,MILL3.3  CUSS): ONLY)   I  ECU. IPRI. SEC. HI.:ADSLTS)I  WS   ICYCLECXIER    a CAPITA   :CI (                       :    t II  ER    I CIL)I
I (5) 13  (2) a  (35    I  CR)  a.    (51              a (61    I (71   I  Ca)    : (9) I  CIA)    I (it)           mCI?)   :103 1 Il) t
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFGMANISTAN    TA    t1.3       9OT                       I9P  2IP   I6P    00         abX      24        41        5. 0       75         Bx     21       1.00
BANGLADEN        71  74.         Rf      1.2    20:.2.j.            .     .-j_ 23      56        .         8        ..         ...       231     28       ..
CHINACTAIAAN% 73  15.          660       3.      190      2  I22In2                   sA        94        4        1.          A           C      2      2.0
INDIA            70 581.90)   12110      2.6ivY  ...      ... .... 29                 79X       ...       430       ...        ...       28X     2DAY    A.0AOA
INDONESIA        73 124.4D    :300       1.8    ¶1.0      63   23    14       62      63        4A        32        9.0        91        12       16      2.00
IRAN             TI  32.)      070       3.1    *2,6    5108   LAB  128    50         77        74A       32        5.08       B00       24       32      a.32Cy
IRAa             72  It'll    8500lo     6.7    *6.308.        .    .     .2          6~ICY      .        22        ..         ...       Z60CY  26        6.2BCY
JORDAN           73   2.5       1no      7.0    RA        52      5    1       9      91        76        l         5.         86        500      22      0.00
KOREA            75,  351.3    530       2.4    16.0R   65,  13         2     52D    1040       98        5i2       3.5,       77        '530     38      7.8
LEBANON          72    2.5D   9400       3.5    118.0     39   40o   *0       68      86        65        15        2.0        63        260      25     23.00
MALAYSIA         74  11 .7     670l      6.14   28.0      44    3     1 I     6CC     96F       90        32        It1. 01    AlP       44F      27F     3.0OF
OMAN             72    0.60    8500      I.7N    3.8      96      -   -       20      540       99        33        7.0        ...       U.40      S        .
PAKISTAN         715  69.0      h OE     1.6    1 6.2     05;   25    *8a    2*       0170      5 0       39        2.0        ...       070    I1a       6.00
PAPUJA N.G.      75,   2.6  ~4I0         5.6    16. 1     38A    1 6   2 4    3 2     377       739       1 1      11I. 0      9 0       120?    24       0.907
PHILIPPINES    704' 30 .2D   28a00r    2.5    I'I.S,      73    159   12      97      luRO      ...       la0       r 5. 0     ...       460      ...    21 .0 0
SINGAPORE        72   2.2D 1, 8305       3.1    16.2      44    51    15      756     560       72A       33        ..         99A       57Y     24       8.250
THAILAND         73  39.14    270        4.0ONF 20.7F    65       9    15 9,   2      870       SIC       32        3. 0 U     'lit      210     24       2.00
TURKEY           72  37.90    6 000L     . ..    13.00R8 ..IoSOCO                                .        3004DY      .        .         2200    270Y   5.3180
YEMEN            7I    6.3      *0 01    o. 9     4.0     'Isrp  DI    2P      0        9       18         6        5.          9         2X    15        0.0580
YEMEN P.0.8.  72    1.150    *100        2.'lA  *2.6      79    12      -     to      700       51        29       *~. 0       49        120     20       0.aRAY
SUMMARY FOR DEVELO/PING COUNTRIES:
405800 OF COUNTRIES:                     75     72       69   68   68        70      78        54        77          52       So        78      70        73
RANGE:                                1.- (3.5-   C2r5  (0-   (0-    CS-           010-      017-      115-       11.8-    (7-        0.4-    (0-      1.01-
12."1P 1  32.3)   96 I 52)  40)    98)         1841)    SR 0        9         29.0)    55)        75.0)  43)       21.0)
QUARTILESIUPPER                        9.2    20.1    55    31    22       75,      87        79,       46          8        00       29       26       6.0
MEDIAN)                   ,4,0    19,0      05    23    15     50       71        50        38          ,       63        16       23       2.00
LOWER 13.0    13.9                          38    06    12     21       52        30        33          3       29          9      20        .9
OEM9OLS: ... DATUM UNAVAILABLE                   A:-1970 OR BEFORE            M=CURRENT PRICES                           SOURCES?
-  MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE R9:157I                             N:GDP----
?  QUESIONABLE                      C=1972                       P:INCLUDING FOREIGN 000ci CI)UNNS?1 AND 2 AORLD BANK ATLAS
*INCLUDES PART-TIME 071/DENTS D=19735                            SCENTRAL 0007. ONLY                                             OA OPAL' MISSIONS
*0COMR1NED WITH PRIMARY             E=19Q?O                       R:MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (M0E) ONLY                    1 TJ 10 IRAD MISSIONS
F-1979                       SZMDE AND STATE GOVT. nNLY                                      AND/OS UNESCO'
G:1976                       T=ESCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                       STATISTICAL
U=PUBLIC ONLY                                                   YEARJOCK
VMINCLUDING PRIVATE FXPENDITURE
X=INCLODING OVERAGED STUnENTS
Y:UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATIOIN OF VARICIUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATI,F STAGES OIF EDUCATIOINAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARDO118 COJUNTRIES. HI)WEVER,ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON S000LU BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAuTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY MY T6E 8ANX MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT ROIURCEOI THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND *ITHIN LIMITS. TO CHECA THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESI,SUCH TATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS ANTr THE BANA IS oOQXIN. TT ImPRIVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE nCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE OF THESE YATA, THE FOILLOMING OUALIFICATI01/.A SHOULD YE HQRB/4 IN
MIND:
1I)EDUCATION" AS DEFINED IN THE TARLE INCLUOES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL:
121"PRIMARY EDUCATTON REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND ISECONDARYTM FOUCATIO3N REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
L.EVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURALI I
C3)'LITEROCY RATES"1COL.6T) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUISES. IN MANYCOUNTR2ES THEY ARE O7NLY APPPOEIMATIONS AND IT ES
DOUBTFLJL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF 'LITERATE' HAS ReEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY?
C4I'PUBLIC EDPENDITURF IN EDUCATICON"CCOLS.3,U AND 51 REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT ESPFNEITURES UFVnTET TO PDUCATlION BY
PUBLIC AND GUASI-PUALIC AGENCIES:
05)-ENRULL.MENT RATInSt(COLS 7, 12 AND 014 REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PEREENTADF OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPRInPRIATC SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TT A AIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN T.E UEAELOPING
COUNTRIES IOWING TT VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC TATACI.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENAOLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN  SCHOOL. OVERAGED srTUDENTS RHOSE I4CL'SIO-4 OS INDICATED   AY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



GENERAL AGRICULTURAL AND FORESTRY MANPOWER DEMAND/SUPPLY - 1976-1985
Level of Employment   Additional Manpower Required              Projected Output
Actu- a-'l n roj-ecte'd                        /Project               Other Ag.             Surplus/
Degree/Diploma             1976       1986       Expansion  Replacement2  Total Institutions  Institutions  Total  (Deficit)
B.S. Agriculture 2         7,900       20,500    12,600        3,000    15,600       l,lOO&      13,900     15,000      (600)
B.S. Forestry (B.S.F.)       530        1,980      1,4450        250      1,700        550           500      1 050      (650)
Government                35 1U       , 30      1,000         200    1,200
Private Industry          100          550        450          50        500
2/
B.S. Forest Products 
Engineering (BSFPE)         0          450        450          50        500        110             0        110      (390)
Forest Ranger                810        3 210      2 400         400 2,800             500         2,000      2,O        (300)
Government                           9T5I                              1,200
Private Industry          150        1,600      1,450         150      1,600
Forest Products Z
Technician (FPT)            0          900        900         100     1,000         340             0        340      (660)
j  Based on VISCA manpower survey, extrapolated to give order of magnitude for entire country.  (Visayas region accounts
for 30% of food and commercial crop output.)
2/ Employed by private industry only.
3/ Assumes existing vacancies are filled in 1976; growth rate of 5% p.a. applied on stock at beginning of each year
1977-80; and 3% p.a. for 1981-85.
2 Source: 1974 manpower survey by Task Force including representatives of UPLB-CF, FORI, FCRPKIDECOM, tne Presidential
Committee on Wood Industries Development, and the private sector.
/ Wastage rate of 2% p.a. applied on stock at beginning of each year 1976-85.
/  VISCA output only.                                                                                                           |
7/ Total output of agricultural institutions (excluding VISCA), including an unknown percentage of students from
substandard institutions who do not meet minimum requirements for education in their fields.



LIVESTOCK SECTOR MANPOWER DEMAND/SUPPLY
1976 - 1985
Level of Employment   Additional Manpower Required         Projected Output
Actual    Projected
Degree/Diploma           1976       1986     Expansion  Replacement  Total  Institutions  Institutions  Total  Surplus/(Deficit)
B.S. Animal 
Science          1,500        6,300    4,800          800       5,600       880           n.a.       n.a.       n.a.
Animal Science              0       2,070    2,070          230        2,300      900              0         900       (l:?OO)
Technician
B.A.I.                   0       1,510    1,510 Y        190       1,700
N.M.I.C.                 0         560      560           40         600
Doctor of Veterinary                               i6                                7/
Medicine                 850       1,410       560         340          900      580-           200         780         (120)
Government             340         570      230-         140          370
Private Industry       500         780      280-         190          h70
Private Practice        10          60  50                10           60
1/  Based on VISCA manpower survey, extrapolated to give order to magnitude for entire country (Visayas region accounts
for 25% of livestock units in the country).
2/ Wastage rate of 2% p.a.
3/ BAI projections of 260 per year, 1976-80; 3% growth p.a. on stock at beginning of years 1981-85.
4/ Assumes one meat inspector would be required for each of the 560 slaughterhouses, to be hired over a ten-year period
at the rate of 56% p.a.; and all existing meat inspectors would be replaced with animal science technicians.
i Assumes existing vacancies are filled in 1976.
6/ Wastage rate of 3% p.a. to account for natural attrition and brain drain.
7/  Includes only domestic graduates.  UPCVM would be graduating an additional 100 foreign students who would be expected
to return to their own countries.
/ Growth rate of 5% p.a. on stock at beginning of each year 1977-80, and 3% p.a. for 1981-85.
2/  Growth rate of 20% p.a. on stock at beginning of each year 1976-85.



AGRICULTURAL MANPOWER DEMAND/SUPPLY IN THE VISAYASL'
1976-l9d5
Level of Employment   Additional Manpower Required             Projected Output
Actual   ProJected             2                 a                       Other Ag.            Manpower
Degree            1976       1986      ExpansionE/ Replacement- Total       VISCA        Institutions Total  Surplus/(Deficit)
B.S. Agriculture    2,380      6,170        3,790          910       4,700      1,100          2,700      3,800       (900)
B.S. Ag. Dev.
Education            630      4,580        3,950          650       4,600        600            150        750     (3,850)
B.S. Ag. Engineering   80        510          430           70         500        200              0        200       (300)
B.S. Agri-Business     70      1,070        1,000          100       1,100        200             10        210       (890)
B.S. Animal Husbandry/
Animal Science      370      1,570        1,200          200       1,400        200            100        300     (1,100)
B.S. Home
Technology        1,370      3,100        1,730          470       2,200       300              40       3 E      (1,860)
TOTAL        4,900    17,000        12,100       2,400       14,500     2,600           3,000      5,600     (8,900)
g Based on 1975 manpower survey by VISCA for 1975-80, and mission estimates for 1981-85.
/ 1976-80 figures are VISCA projections; growth rate of 3% p.a. applied to stock at
beginning of each year 1981-85.
/ Wastage rate of 2% p.a. applied to stock at beginning of each year 1976-85.



ANNEX 5
PHILIPPINES
TOTAL EXP21DITUPE O   EDUCATION  BY  SOURCE  1973-1975
Recurrent and Ca2ital
Millioni current pesos
1973                  1974                       1975
Actual             Appropriation              Appropriation
1. National Government-/
- Elementary Education                                       1182                   1225                       1300
- Secondary Education                                           94                   127                        163
- Higher Education
Department of Education and Culture                     16                    15                         31
State Universities and Colleges                        158                   199                        284
- Other Educational Institutions                                 5                     9                         11
- Education Administration                        2/
Office of the Secretary Including SESF                  11                   110                        128
Regional Offices                                        -                      8                          9
- Infrastructure Program                                        82                    49                         88
Sub Total                                                    1548                   1742                       2014
2.  Local Governments
- Provinces                                                     28                    50                         46
- Cities                                                        64                   127                        134
-  !unicipalities                                               50                    44                          -
Sub Total                                                      142                   221                        480
3/
3. §pec_al Educatioa Fund (SEF)
- Provincial School Boards                                       9                     10                        14
- City School Boards                                            41                    49                         47
Of Which lianila                                       (15)                  (18)                       (12)
- Municipal School Boards                                       31                    43                         44
Sub Total                                                       81                   102                        105
4.  Total Public Expenditures on Education (1+2+3)                  1771                   2065                       2299
4/
5.  Private Expenditures on EduLcation                               482                    607                        696
6.  Total Expenditures on Education (4+5)                           2253                   2672                       2995
5/
7.  Expenditures on Education as a Proportion of GNP                3.6                    3.2                       2.8
Notes:
1/ Ministry of Education plus expenditures on colleges and universities.
2/ Special Education Stabilization Fund, that is, the National Government share of the Special
Education Fund (SEF).
3/ The Special Education Fund is financed by an additional 1% tax on real property, the basix tax of which
is already 1%. Tax collection rests on local governments (cities and municipalities). The proceeds of
the tax are then shared between the various School Boards according to the following formula:
- at the cities level, 60% go to the City School Board and 40% to the SESF (National Government)
- at the municipal level, 50% go to the Municipal School Boards, 30% to the SESF and 20% are transferred
to the provincial School Boards.
4/ Estimates based on the number of students enrolled in private schools multiplied by average tuition fees.
f/Aasumes a 177% growth rate over the preceding year (127o inflation and 5% real giowth).
MaY, 1976



ANNEX 6
Page 1
January 10, 1977
DEPARTMENT ORDER
No.     s. 1977
CREATING THE TECHNICAL PANEL FOR AGRICULTURAL
EDUCATION AND DEFINING ITS FUNCTIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
TO               Bureau Directors
Regional Directors
Chiefs of Services and Heads of Units
Heads of Private Colleges and Universities
Heads of State Colleges and Universities
1.        The pronounced policy of the National Government demands that the
energetic socio-economic development programs must be complemented with the
development of lower, middle and upper level manpower to provide support of
the type required by the economy, industries and society, in order to accel-
erate rural transformation and agro-industrialization process in the
Philippines.
2.        In consonance with the above aims and pursuant to the recommenda-
tions of ithe Presidential Commission to Survey Philippine Education (PCSPE)
to re-direct education to the more relevant needs of the national develop-
ment, a ten-year program consisting of programs and projects as specified in
Presidential Decree No. 6-A which are all geared towards national, economic,
social and political development has been approved for implementation. Among
others, the programs call for upgrading of agricultural education in the
Philippines so that the number and quality of agricultural graduates should
match the requirements of the economy and industry. Agricultural education,
in this context, includes all courses or of the type of social service
relating to professional, scientific, technical and vocational development
in the fields of animal science including veterinary medicine, crop science,
fishery, and forestry.
3.        In order to relate agricultural education to the national needs
more effectively, there shall be relevant policies as well as minimum standards
and rules for the establishment and operation of agricultural institutions.
Such rules and standards should cover qualitatively and quantitatively, pro-
grams, facilities, personnel management, and other related areas of agri-
cultural education.
4.        Likewise, in order to assure the continuing observance and mainte-
nance of proper input process, and output qualification standards for agri-
cultural education, there is a need for the establishment and organization
of a competent body to study and recommend strategies to rationalize and



ANNEX 6
Page 2
make more effective the existing and proposed agricultural institutions
-=     '-- the'fr programs, facilities, personnel, organization, operation,
funaing and output standards.  For this purpose, therefore, there is here-
bv e-tablished and organized under the Department of Education and
Imras, a Technical Panel for agricultural education to operate and serve
as staff or consultative and advisory body to the Bureau of Higher Education
(BE) .
5.        There shall be ten (10) members of the Technical Panel, who shall
be appointed or designated by the Secretary of Education and Culture, as
tollows:
a.   The Director, BHE, as Chairman;
b.   One outstanding scientist, educationist or
practitioner from each of the fields in
animal science including veterinary medicine,
crop science, fishery and forestry; who shall
be nominated by agricultural education faculties,
scientific or professional groups;
c.   A representative of the Professional Regulations
Commission; and
d.   A representative each of the Departments of Agri-
culture, Agrarian Reform, Local Government and
Community Development, and Natural Resources.
6.        Subject to the authority of the Secretary of Education and Culture,
the Technical Panel shall have the following functions:
a.   To study, in cooperation with NEDA and other appro-
priate agencies, the current and prospective national
and regional demand for, and supply of, agricultural
manpower in various levels and specialization and to
formulate and recommend for adoption and implementa-
tion such development plans in agricultural education
that will provide the framework for determining the
appropriate scope, type and number of agricultural
programs to be offered.
bo   To formulate and recommend for adoption and qualitative
standards of education inputs, processes and outputs
with respect to admission, enrolment, faculty, curricula
and courses, facilities, student services, instructional
equipment, library resources, management, financing,
and other related criteria, which shall be applicable
to all agricultural education programs in public and
private institutions at the secondary and tertiary
levels through a national system of accreditation to
be developed by this panel.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
c.   To provide technical assistance in the supervision,
inspection and regulation of all existing institutions
offering agricultural courses; for purposes of the
maintenance of government authority to operate therefor,
and the grant of corresponding government authority to
operate with respect to new schools or courses -- based
on the standards approved by the National Board of
Education and the Secretary of Education and Culture.
d.   To study and recommend action on applications on tuition
fees and such other school charges for agricultural
education programs offered in various agricultural
colleges and universities, based on standards approved
by the Secretary of Education and Culture.
e.   To study and recommend the allocation of resources for
public and private agricultural education, including
loans, grants and international assistance, in order to
ensure the effective utilization thereof.
f.   To study and recommend actions on the budgets of public
institutions offering agricultural education programs
on the basis of their development plans, regional role,
program quality and resources.
g.   Within approved budgets, to recommend grants for, and/
or funding of the conduct, research and development of
programs, facilities, staff, and instructional methodology
and technology through a national and regional network of
research and development centers.
h.   To formulate and recommend for adoption and implementation
such rules and regulations governing all agricultural
education programs as may be necessary to carry out their
purposes and functions in accordance with the approved
input, process and output standards set for obtaining
government incentives and funds.
i.   To review all programs initiated by Regional Directors,
to provide technical assistance if necessary, and
recommend final action on such programs.
j.   To do such other acts and to approve and to make such
expenditures as may be deemed necessary and proper for
the attainment of this order.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
7.        A secretariat under the Bureau of Higher Education, headed by an
Executive Secretary, shall be provided and maintained as supportive staff
to the Technical Panel. The services of experts/consultants on full-time
or part-time status, will be likewise provided and maintained, to be either
detailed from existing government institutions or agencies or funded from
the appropriations that may be availed of.
8.        Funding for the operation of the Technical Panel, and its secre-
tariat as well as expert/consultant staff will be drawn initially from the
Government's counterpart to the Fourth Educational Loan from the World Bank,
provided, however, that until such time that the staff of the Technical Panel
is fully operational, the Rural Development Sector staff of the EDPITAF, in
close coordinatin with the Bureau of Higher Education, shall perform the
duties and functions of the said staff, based on such working arrangements
and procedures approved by the Secretary of Education and Culture.
9.        This Department Order shall take effect immediately.
(SGD.) JUAN L. MANUEL
Secretary



PHILIPPINES
PROJECT I1STITUTI0NS
PRESEIT AND PROJECTED ZWROjL4iJDT/UTPUT
1975/76 - 1984/85
Staff/Student       Staff with
E n r o I I n e n t                                 Ratio          rdT    Degrees
Project Institution   1975-76  15976-77  1977-78  1978-79  1979-80  1 980-81  196-55  1 -76  1960-81  1975-76  1980-81
UPLB College of
Forestry:                                                                            1:7       1:10     35/5?    90/90
M.S./M.F./Ph.D          60       70        80       90      110      120      120
Degree                 240      255       300      380      430      470      470
Technician             115      160      205      260       280      300      300
Dept. of Animal
Science:                                                                             1: 16/-   1:22/-  29/73   120/120
M.S./Ph.D.              80       95      110      125       140      360      160
Degree                 120      140      150       165      180      230      230
Technician              -       220      220      220       220      220      220
UP College of Vet.
Medicines                                                                            1:7       1:8      10/35    50/50
M.S./Ph.D.              10       11       12        13       14       16       16
Doctor of Vet. Mod.    250      270       290      310      330      370      400
Visayas State College
of Agriculture         860      950    1.000    1,200    1.400    1.500    1.500    1s6        1:7.5   49/135  200/200
Total            1,735    2,171    2,367    2,763    3,104    3,386    3,416
0 u t  u t
UPLB College of
Forestry$
x.s.l.F./Ph.D.          13       25       30        35       35       40       50
Degree                  45       45       50        50       60       75       95
Techaian                25       25       50        70      100      110      120
Dept. of Animal
Sciences
M.S./Ph.D.              30       35       40        50       55       60       70
Degree                  4o       45       50        65       70       75       85
Technician              -       100      100       100      100      100      100
UP Colloge of Vet.
Medicines
II.S.                    4        5        5         6        6        7        8
Doctor ot Vat. bd.      40       50        55       60       65       70        90
Visayas State College
of Agrioultmre         180      270      210      150       180      315      320
Total              377      600      590      Om        671      852      938
Sourosey  Uucatimal Wvolowg vtt    f           pl,. .3-. :     TP* Forot (NUTAF), prjeot institutios, and ILasilm eetitns.
,   Applien to total students taling cours3 1.  t¼  _    '3t of Anivul Soiac-i of 13,200 'i 1975 and 2,600 in 1980.



ANNEX 8
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Fellowships (Man-Years)        _
iTotal
Specialists Post                      Study        Cost
(Man-Years) Doctoral Doctoral  M.S. Tours Total (US$000)
1. UPLB
a. College of Forestry           -          2         32             -      34     408
b. Department of Animal
Science                   -           -         24      _     -      24      288
c. Other Colleges and
Institutions              -          19       123       -     -    142   1,704
2. UP College of Veterinary
Medicine (UPCVM)
(i) Fellowships                -           -         21     20      -     41      452
(ii) Specialists                4.5                    -      -      -      -      247
l3. Visayas State College of
Agriculture (VISCA)
(i) Fellowships                -           _         81      _      4     85   1,032
(ii) Specialists                4.0         _-                       -      -      220
4. RITCs and FTCs                   _           _                       3       3      45
5. Project Management
Support                         4.5                            4     5       9     1l5
6. Industrial policy studies        2
Total (Man-Years)                  15          21       281      24    12    338
Unit Cost/Man-Year
(US$t000)                      55          12         12     10    15
TOTAL COSTS (US$t000)             825         252     3,372    240   180            4,869



Coo,,tr    PHILIPPINES         p-t       EDUCATION IV                                                                                                                                   A-ehice-ts' App-1-1o Form IT-A
PRoOHLEr                                      BUs________ EILDINSG                     FURN____ ______   ISITURE    ______EQEEPHEN           TOTAL  I I  PROFESSIONAL   TE000-   ,.  .000      to  U 00
tloelo    EcS*rSafAse,c                                                               c,e,o                            HSICAL        SERVICES     NICAL       f      j     f
No.        ITOH                 ,oest     Ad,ot. &    S-oding I H...igs      Tots1     AdO,ot. &  IBo-diog    Tot.1    Adpi.. A   Boodiog IT.t.1       FACSIOS        00ASSST               ____          PS)
___-_____                                     C.- 1oe                         C-5sOo                       :E-1.Pr-fF.Pe    Arch.         A
1.  iversityofthe                                                                                                                                                         ---------
la. College of Forestry            983       4,219     1,904-   3,703-        9,826        406       248       654   11,798                11,798    22,278          865                    24,126        3, 217
lb. AnimW  Science:             (2,858                                      (18,572)                        (1,069)-                        (8,716) (27,666)    '1,715)-                    (32,930)    (4,391)
1)Dept-. of An-im. S-c -2,5-57      12,857        845     1,863      15,565        743         85      828     8,716        -        8, 716    27,666      1,450-                    29,116       3,882
__ii) Diagnosti~c Center_ 3__01             975     1,141        891       3,007        127       114       241       -           -                               265-                     3,814         509
ic. UPLB Technical Assist.______                                                                                                                                                  18,450    18,45 0       2,460
id. College of Vet. Nediciiel,554            8,901     3,322      3,321      15,544      1,124       332   1,456       4,383        -        4,383    22,937       1,368            5,106    24,305       3,971
Sub-total 1. (Pesos)        5.395      26,952      7,212     9,778      43,942      2,400        779  -317       24,897 _              24897   77,413         3,~             23,5561097
(US$'000)           ___ (719                                            (5,859)                          (424)                         (3,320) (10,322) _ (526)               (3,14118
Foreign_Exchange              (237 __                                   (1,933)        ___(140)                                        (2,988)  (5,298) __       (79)         (2,984, _              (8,361)
2.  Visavas State College
of Agricultur
2.1 (existing facilities)
2.2 Agronomy &_soils                        4,307         -        -          4,307   _379          -379                                               4,686
2.3 Animal Husbandry                         4,275                 -          4,275        361      -361                                               4,636
2.4 Crop Protection    __3,792                            -        -          3,792_       493      -493                                               4,288
2.5 Agri/Botany & plant                      2,437        -                   2,437        317      -317    ___2,754                                                __
2.6 Ar   hmsr                                 ,3                              2,232        290      -290    ___                                        2,522
2.7 Agri Engineering                         5,075        -        -          5,075        485      -485                                               5,560
2.8 Agri Econ/Radio                          4,463        -        -          4,463        580      -580    ___5,043
2.9 Home Economics                           2,133        -        -          2,133        277      -   -      277    ____2,410
2.1) Social Laboratory          __           1,078        -           _       1,078         86      -86    ___1,164
2.1- Student Union                __         246          -        -     -    2,456        246      -246~ -_                                            2,702                         --
2.12_Infirmary__ ___                     -___  839   --_-_-        -  -         839        109       - -       109           --948                                                                    4 
2.13 Auxiliary facilities                    1,32                               34-2 J     107      -107                                                1,449
2.1  Non-departmental itemi 16,80                                                                                     27,309       -        27,309   44,110        3,059  90o   9,390
- Sub-total 2 (Pesos)           *j                        34,49 --3429                3,730               3,730   27,309         -       27,309   82,2699  900   9,390    ~ 1
16    80  34__ __                              -  - =-429----                                            -                                                                   P
(US$'000)    _____ (2,24 )                                              (4,591)                          (497)       ____(3,641) (10,969)                       (408 (120)  1,252,                   12 7_49      m 
Foreign Exchange               (739)                                    (1,515)  __                       (164)  ____                  (3,277)  (5,695) __       (61  (24)  1, 139    _____    (6,969)             ,t
0-r-soy E5Si-Srnt: US$1.00-    7.5 Pesos                                                        Sh.et 1  of 2  she-,o



Coostr    PHILIPPINES        ..pootEDUCATION IV                                                                                                                                                IBRD/1DA. Ed.So,ti, P-oJ-c
Atchi, ct.' Approi.ol Form 11-B
E S T T M A T E D  C 0 S T N  I N  '0 0 0  0F PPesos            (i 9 io ~6P Ro I C E S)                                       E S .  T 0 T A L  C I S T 1
PROJEcT                Sit.                     BU CIINGS                                'FURNI-TURE E____                QUIPHONT                TOTAL       PROFESSIONAL   TEC-       No '000      So '000
Al     Adle          - Ndiog    500-10     T-1A       Adif., &   Boo..di.g   Tlot1    Adilo. & 1B-OOdiOg     Tot.1      PACILITIE.S Coet           ASSIST-110
______________ _____________C   -ioo      __ _ _ __ __ _ _ _                Co-oo                           Co-,ooe   I                    ( loc Ptof.pB..  Atth.         ANCE
3.  Rural Training Centers___               ____1
3.1 National Trng. Center,___
Los. Banos                    596    _1 973    -1 780         1,307   5 ,06.0         156_       178        334               __418 -      1.41        7       _0   28-,9                                   ,2
3.2 MSA Regional Center             313      1,068       1,287        770   3,125            84        129        213        709                   709       4,360        172-                      4,532         604
3.3 CVI Regional Center             331      1,143       1,366        805    3,314            90       137        227       _709                   709       4,581        183                       4,764         635
3.4 Visayas Regional Centei   313            1,068       1,287        770    3,125           84        129        213        709            -      709       4,360        172     -_4,532_                        604
3.5 NIT Regional Center             331      1,143       1,366        805    3,314            90       137        227        709                   709       4,581        183                       4,764         635
Sub-total 3 (Pesos)            ~        6,395       7,086      4,457   1793             504        710     1,214      4,254               4-25        _25,20          993                     26  283-
(US$1000)                     (251                                      (2,392)                _____          621_                           (567)    (3,372)-(132           -      :                      3 3504 
Foreign Exchange         ~       3(789)    ____                                                                5)(1)                                   (l, 435J       (20                                    4~
4. Farmer Training Centert
4.1 Sta Barbr,    naia-157                     472         579-       514   _1565-            2         58          85  11 611                                              861122504__8
4.2 San Mateo, Isabel.a             166        426          639       591    14656448                             112        482    -        ~     482       2 416__        91  _257
4.3 Angst, Bulacan                    79       271           -        514       785           21         -          21       632       -632                  1,517          43                  --1,560
4.4 Nauhan, Mindoro                  152       401          602        514    1,517  -        28         60-        88       632_    -           _632        2,389          84                      2,473
E'4.5 Alang-Alang, Leyte              152        401         602        514    1,517            28        60I         88       632       -           632       2,389          84          __          2,473
4.6 Mids!ayp - Cotabato             166        426          639       591    1,656            48      -64          112       460       -460   -~2,394                       91        --2,485
4.7 Coordinating Office/Te heclAssance Baex Equ.pmsent    ________ _______                                                                       6,490       6,490                       337
Sub-total 4 (Pesos)             872     2,37        306        3,238    8.9             200        306        506     3,449       -         9   ~99    2,1            479           337       2,2
(US$000)   -(116 ____                                                   (1,159)    ____L (67)  ___-(1,325)    (2,667)                                               (64) r(45)                            2.~776
Foreign Exchsnge                (38 %   ___    ___    ___                 (383)                 __   j        (22)  ___                    (1,193)    (1,636)        (10) __         (43)                (1,689)
P.roject Managmnst. Suppo t and  ;tudies            _______                 ____----                                                                                                                              __
(Pesos)                                                                                                                                                                           3  70. 470
(US$'000)                           __________ ____(463)                                                                                                                                                    (463)
-   Foreign Exchan~~~~~~~~~,  -..-'-----.---- ______  ____       _____                                                                    (440)                    (440)~~~~~~~~~~~(40)  440
TOTS! AL BAST         P     HOH 14,9~5 2 _70,173        17,359I   17,473 105,005__6,834              1,795      8,629    59,909          -      66,399    204,985-8,479    900  - ,753 -  251,117
F-olodi.g        U OS     00  3 326       9,356        2 315     2 330  14,001                    ___         1,150                            8,853      27,330    1,130    120  4,900               -~3   8
-_ _-                         __,:.~~         I   --                        - -   -          - -                  ..-- -- - -- - -    -      __  - - _-  _ -   -           -z-    83----
(CooOoNootoe) Poo.Soh. .                                ______33        33__                               33                              90                     15     20               56.5
______(S$           379                     -(.2079__                                                                   ____ (798   - (14, 06 4)            17) (24) (4,656-) ______   G , 914)
cANYBINGENHCISE     7...00 CoO   4.2                                          41.27.                            34.4%                          31 .0%                  32.6%   8%                  35. 2%
P   'NOs -0 280                                      43262         __                    2,964                  __   20,584          77,090    2,764       75  8,475        88,404
US$    '050o  1  37                                       5,768      _                        396                            2,744      10,279       369      10  12911,845
Fo3 3% ~                                                3 3%                             33%                            9 07.                   15%     20%.   95%        51.47,
--    -(r-----go                                       ---             -  2,7)           9            (5)--M(,7            ---                         a N(,06
TOTAL PRO035CC COST   P     'HHH 1         ____--_____ ____                 148,267                            11,593  _  __                    86,983    282,074    11,243 - 975  45,229  339,521             ____
(LHcl.Coeti,'eoooe   s$I  'nop  4,69.7                                     -19,769                              1,546                           11l, 59 7   37,609      1,499  130    6,029                   45,267
TOTAL FOR. EXCB. .       Tto1 Coo. 3%.___                                      33%                                33%                            9 0%/                  157,     20%      95%     55.27,
COBEPONHOT       NH$    'aH 00   50-6,524    _                                             ___510N [o43                                                   19022         2251  26    5,727                   25,000
*C--yoo EqoS-ol-t: uss1.oo     7.5                                                                   ShPesosN2...0500
PffYSICAL           % Base Cost    77                                          7%                                               Peso            10%                       7%     5%
CONTINGENCIES:    US$'000          166                                        980                                 81                                 885                   79       6                           2,197



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Philippines
PROa                                           11170                197                 a@I                  1979                10 so1
PRO         PROJECT                             3                 1377 _                                   i _                       o
1.   V IS C A                               P      -                          N S T .
a) Campus Development                                 ITPEA        CONST                  G.                                               PREP                Pre-.uaification/Selectio. of ArchitectsP
Planners, Preparation of Briefs, Schermatics
and Preliminary Plana
b) Building                                                               CON  Ts                                                        ...... <PQC  -       Pre-q.ualificatio of Building Contractors/
bI Building ~     ~         PQ                                                        G                                                              Equipment and/sr Furniture Supplies
TPEA        -       Tender Period, Bid Evaluation and Contract Award
LIST.  DELIVER        I                                        ~~~~~~~~~CONST  -     Construction Period
c) Furnitur                                                          T                       G P                                          DELIVER    -         Delivery of Furniture/Equipment
CD          -       Preparation of Contract Documents
2.   CVM, DAS, ADDL                                                                                                                               GP           -       Guarantee Period
2.    CVI/, ing -AS, ADDL-                                                                                                                 SCPQ T P  T    G P _  CH  -  Preparation of revised Schematic Plans
LIST        -       Preparation of Master Lists for Furniture/
Equipment
b) Fur'nlture                                  itTT.c0                             PEA                                                                 -       Bank Review
SUVEY       -       Survey of existing equipmoent



-  PROJECT                                        1977               1 78               19 7r               I *
PJ                       I , X    _2 3 4                       _ 2341  2 3 f4 1 234 1  23 
I    COLLEOE OF FORESTrRY,I                                 I                                  1.        .__
UPLB  RTC's - FTC's    _ _  _  _                                                         GP _
PREP        i      Pre-q|alification/Seiection of Architects/
Planners, Preparation of Briefs, Schematics
h~~FwnltmNe                             LLST.        ___ _7_              GPPQC                                                     -      Pre-qualification of Building Contractors/
) Fni twore                                             C Ll D  _A    DELIVR                                                                          Equipment and/or Furniture Supplies
_ii                      .                                   .                      = =           F   = F|= = c   F F= c = _ = = =TPEA  -  Tender Period, Bid Evaluation and Contract Award
~~~~  =   =      t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ~~~~~CONST                                                                    Construction Period
DELIVER    -       Delivery of Furniture/Equipment
4.   EOUIPrME NT                                        -           E                j                    GE A  _    GP _   = 2                             C    D -  Preparation of Contract Documents
LISTI    1TPl            A±. .                                                                       - IDEIVER  GP  Guarantee Period
BCH        -       Preparation of revised Schematic Plans
LIST       -       Preparation of Master Lists for Furniture/
Equipment
*     -      Bank Review
SURVEY     -       Survey of existing equipment



FOURTH LOAN TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AVAILMENT SCHEDULE
D E V E L O P M E N T Y E A R
PROJECr I-NbIjIUTION                              1976         1977          1978        1979              i980             i98i
1  2  3 4    1 2  3 4       1  2  3 4   1 2  3   4   1 2   3   4          1  2   3  4
VISCA
Ph.D.                              1                xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
10                    xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
5                             xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4                                   xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
7                                            xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
27
Experts
Animal Protection               1                           xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Radio Station Program & Mgt.    1                           xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Plant Breeding                  1                           xxxxxxx
Ag. Chemistry                   1                                          xxxxx
Instrumentation                 I                                               xxxx
5
UPLB
Ph.D.                             18                xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
5                    xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
24                             xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
13                                   xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
60
Post Doctoral                      8                              xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4                                   xxxxxxxxxxx
8                                            xxxxxxxxxxxx
20
College of Veterinary Medicine
Ph.D.                              2                     xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
3                                   xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
2                                            xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
7
M.S.                               4                     xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx                                               t |
3                                   xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx                                 UX
3                                            xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxXXXXXXX                        o



2
D E V E L O P M E N T    Y E A R
PROJECT INSTITUTION                                    1976            1977          1978            1979          1980           1981
1  2  3   4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  Z  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4
Expert                         2                            xxxxxxxxxx
1                                        xxxx
1                                                xxx
1                                                       x'XX
1                                                                     xxxxxxxx
1                                                                     xxx
Project Management Staff
M.A.                           2                       xxxxxxxxxxxxx
1                            xxxxxxxxxx
2                                    xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1                                                    xxxxxxxxxxxx
6.
Non Degree                     4                            xxx
4                              xxx
3                                                    xxxxx
11
FTC/RTC
Non Degree                    10.                           xxx
14                                         xxx
14                                                       xxx
8                                                                     xxx
46
0 X
o1



ANNEX 11
PHILIPPINES FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditure and Disbursements
(Expressed in Millions of US$ Equivalent)
Expenditure                 Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                 During                        During
and Semester                    Semester      Cumulative      Semester      Cumulative
1977
1st                             0.6             0.6
2nd                             1.1             1.7           0.4            0.4
1978
1st                             8.7            10.4           0.3            0.7
2nd                            14.1            24.5           1.9            2.6
1979
1st                           11.3             35.8           5.5            8.1
2nd                             5.1            40.9           7.0          15.1
1980
1st                             2.6            43.5           5.0           20.1
2nd                             1.1            44.6           2.3          22.4
1981
lst                             0.4            45.0           1.8          24.2
2nd                             0.3            45.3           0.4          24.6
1982
1st                                            45.3           0.4          25.0
TOTAL                     45.3            45.3          25.0           25.0






CHART 1
0
LU0
0-
0~~~~~~~~~~
UJ_j         U).                                              LO 
U)            C)~~~~~~~0                   (N
0                                                          IN                                 co
00
(C
o  co
0
0   ,
coI-co
c)    i
0           Lo
o  Lol
C)~~~~~~~~~~~C
0~~~~~~~~~~~~
0 C       -
o  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ In~~~~~~~~~~~..  ..
Cl     .                          .. ..  .. .
Ci~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        0~~c                       ..     ...
In  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
>~W0                                                         -    U
CL                       6                                                           .  .... .0.    .0
CY                                                                 . ..    . .   ..  
LU                                                     ....0  0.....
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
CL 0  D0                      C
N1                                                                                  ....
..... ....
N                  0~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~N                                   0
U)       Cl
Z                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
LU                                                       U)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ...   .........
CY)
0~~~~~~~~~~~
U)~~~~~c
C)  0~~~~~~C
0                                                                           c~~~~~~~
m       o           CD    co    N    2      ~     ~     ~     N 
>fl                                                                                                               -                    =-
WI1                                                                                                             (N                     (I
_iN 



I



PHI LIPPINES
STRUCTURE OF THE FORMAL SYSTEM OF EDUCATION
AGE          [m 6               7 1     9   10   11  12           1      4 !      1         1     !   I    I2    11      23 ! i   25
I         1                         3d4h5h 
GRADE                                                             Yea  Yea  Yea12d   rd  Year1  Yearl Year|Year IYear' Year I
I|                                           I     I    I    I                             I     I                           I
I         I                                        I I:      I    I         I                I                            I:
LEVEL          ELEMEN-                ELEMENTARY               >      SECONDAR>                   TERTIARY               GRADUATE
TARY                                                                                                                     I INTE R-   i  u   |    |    |   S +  l   I    |   i _NTR 
I                                       list I 2d:           idAGRICULTURE
l~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~Ya  Yer Year11                           Yer YerYaIerYa  I
I   l    l                       l                               COMMERCE~~~I 
II                                         GENERAL                  COME
I         III                                 :        HIGH SCHOOLS           TEACHER
I         I                              I                             I      EDUCATION
NATURE                                                             BARRIE  '         .    _ __ ___
OF            II                                            i      HIGH SCHOOLS             LIBERAL ARTS
PROGRAM    I            I   lTR                                                                                  _
VOCUTIONAL              ENGINEERI NG        
I         I   l                               l      Pilot Barrio             LAW
II|    I                                   GSheNeloo                A.B.CPROGRAM      |LAW    PROPER
I  Schools of Arts          MEDICINE
HIGH& Trades            TEACHER  '                                  I
NA E                                          I      BAgricultural High       LBGRAASI
PROGRAM    I  I                      I       VOCATIONAL                               -~~~~~~PROGAMI
'I                      I      ~~~~~~~~~~iNsTeiTUIOs     ENG TRINEEING
I   I    I                         I       Schools
II    I                                         Schools of Art           MEDHICIANE
Included in the project
World Bank-16905






ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
OF
EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
IMPLEMENTING TASK FORCE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
_PROJ. MONITORING & EVALUATION|
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE                            STAFF SERVICES    |   RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT|
COMMISSION ON AUDIT                          mm                 . m7         PLANNING|
-|     ~INFORMATION*|
AD-INTERIM/SP
SERVICE SECTOR                                 PROJECT AREAS                 PROJECTS GROUP**
-| ADMINISTRATION             |                  4| BASIC EDUCATION               PISICTE
FINANCIAL MGT.                          '   RURAL DEVELOPMENT            [TEXTBOOK SECRETARIAT
PROCUREMENT            COORDINATING         TECHNICAN INSTITUTES
: :     GROUP I/
CIVIL WORKS                                       RMTC
94y TECHNICAL > ,'/  |        ENGINEERING
COORDINATING
PROPOSED DIVISION               COMMITTEE
**TEMPORARY IN NATURE;     '      GROUP \I
PIS/CTE TO TERMINATE STUDY                            NOTE:
ACTIVITIES EARLY 1977,                                TCC GROUP I CHAIRED BY CIVIL WORKS REPRESENTATIVE
TEXTBOOK SECRETARIAT TO        TECHNICAL              TCC GROUP II CHAIRED BY PROCUREMENTS REPRESENTATIVE
MOVE PERMANENTLY TO           COORDINATING            TCC GROUP III CHAIRED BY ENGINEERING REPRESENTATIVE
UP CAMPUS EARLY 1977.          COMMITTEE
GROUP III
World Bank- 16872






IIRD 1261'
1200                                                                124-                                                      JANUARY 1977
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                                                                                                              PHILIPPINES
I slocce, Norte              37 Aklan                                                                               FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
-20°       2 Aba                         3S CapiE                                                                                                                                                            20-
3  locos Sur                 39 Antique                                                 8                                                *          NATIONAL TRAINING  CENTER
4 Mountain                   40  b1fib1
5 La Union                    41 Negron 0o.Idental                                                 3                                                REGIONAL TRAINING  CENTERS
6 Benguet                    42 Csbu                                                                                                                FARMERS TRAINiNG  CENTERS
7 Pangasinan                 43 Negros Oriental                                                                                                    F
8 Satanes                    44 Bohol                                                                                                    *         COLLEGE OF FORESTRY, UPLB
g Cagayan                    45 Siquijor                                       Q                                                                   COLLEGE OF VETERINARY MEDICINE, UPLB
10 Keltigs-Apyaso             46 Northern Emar &
11 isabela                    47 Samar ,atrsys,1 Cl28os/                                                                                            DEFARTMENT OF ANIMAL SCIENCE AND
12  tIfgao                    48 Eaastrn Samar                                                                                            0           ANIMAL DISEASES DIAGNOSTIC
13 Nueva Vizcaya              49 Leyte                                           '                                                                    LABORATORY  UFLB
14 Quoirino                   so Soethern Levee                  2ao    1          J    Aparri 9                                          A          VISAYAS STATE COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE
15 Nueee Ecija                51 Zamboanga del Norte                                                                                                  S -SAY BAY, LAYTE
16 'Tarla                     52 Zamboanga del S.,                 ,                             r
17 Zambales                  s53  asilan                                          P1 --  --    FROVINCIAL  BOUNDARIES
18 FelParnga                  54 S l T w                                                                                                           REGIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE  BOUNDARIES
I5 Enlacan                    55 Toanit-io
20 sotoan                     56 S.rigso del Norte                    3 (                  lleton
21 Quezon                     57 Cen4gmin                         Z         12   -U                /
22 Rizal                      58  Agus4n del Norte  SEn Fernando 5         J    ---.              /
23 CaritO                      59 Misamis Oriental     EolmOo        '
160      24  Letuna                     50 Misamis Ocoidental     O0                  13                                                                T 1  EQ -  0i0    200    2      I 300-
25  Batangas                   61 Lanao del Norte               DaKMuETERS
26 Marinduque                 62 Lonon del Su,                                                                                                                                   0 1000
ySanJoto0                                                   EQ                     160         200~~~~~~~~~    5
27 Mirdolo Oriental           63 Bukidnon                                                                                                    I         MILES
28  Mindoro Ootidental        64 Aqusan delSor Su,arlo15                              Y
29  Romblon                   65  Surigao del Sur                16     1  oa    tn                                                            S bOundzrnes tOtovr onc  nte map  do noe
30 Palawan                    66  Maguindan.o                  A\to    <                                                                World Bankheedits affdbliet
Anogelnno 
21 Ca,oerines Norte           67 North Cotabato         O          1n5aI1
32 Camarines Sur              6B  Davao                  OngaPo6,'>   r             21l   1
33 Cetandu.en                  69 Dwao Oriental                   "20  ' '             /I >                                                 PEJ   I p  PIN    5 f  E      '
34 Albay                      70 Davao del Sur                    I
35  Sorsogon                   71 Sultun Kudarat                   F                              i
36 Masbate                    72 South Cotbato           <O                                                               Pee  Soothe,
?  Nag. - 
/                   = (-kbeaEae;    (t\ K                                   *NVV inec     
5  s7 t7     t gi  ,/. 26  1   1                                       vaBUY.3    2| '\\            0>35tao
2-r2                                                                                                                                                                                                      12-  2  0Toa4  te°a
/  ,  s /1 J 38 ,J > \ / \ >, > ' ~~~~~~~~R-a                                         S1A
/~~~~ot Fttcse                                            laay                                        /77   7(        \      ,( /   yIC dun
/                       c.r,    t                /           2           9        9:   <}i: 1    /   (DU'ulf i~39 1 4
/ j~~~~~~~~~~
,V   , --  /                          aga)73; r zv/f    {  /    , /   <        _    t     X  Co   }~'
Pueto PrinrFaO    4 1/  rrsaCr>
/-30                                                                        43  )\    I /o.r    .                          f
U         SEA                                                           7        G       SUntJ|
' A           /                                                                 /              DA             8            , dagayw
ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
'<S~ ~~~~q
CHINA                                                                                                                                                                           ' 7
PHILIPPINES                                                                                                          2     0G ,m    Smo
__ N A_ M=>!rtzOt4 ft|



