Document of
The Woridi Bank
C [0  El             IFOa OI)IF F lC]IRAL USE ON!LY
rrge$o. P-1997-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
February 16, 1977
This document has a resoi2ed dist,bufion and may be used by recip6ents only bn tbe perfonnnee of
thetir ofeiAc duties. Its contenas mty not otherwise be disclosd withount World Bank nnthorizntson.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1000          =    Pesos 7.50
Pesos 1,000      =    US$133.00
Pesos 1 million  =    US$133,000
ABBREVIATIONS
BAEx      - Bureau of Agricultural Extension
BAI       - Bureau of Animal Industry
EDPITAF   -  Educational Development Projects Implementing
Task Force
PTC-RD    - Philippine Training Centers for Rural Development
NTC     -    National Rural Training Center
RTC     -    Regional Rural Training Center
FTC     -    Farmer Training Center
RAC       - Regional Advisory Council
UPCVM     - University of the Philippines College of Veterinary
Medicine
UPLB      - University of the Philippines at Los Banos
UPLB-CA   - University of the Philippines at Los Banos,
College of Agriculture
UPLB-CF   - University of the Philippines at Los Banos,
College of Forestry
UPLB-DAS  - University of the Philippines at Los Banos,
Department of Animal Science
VISCA     - Visayas State College of Agriculture
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES FOR A
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $25 million
to help finance the foreign exchange cost of a fourth education project.
The loan would have a term of 20 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace,
with interest at 8.5% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in April/May 1975 and
its report, "The Philippines: Priorities and Prospects for Development, Basic
Economic Report" (No. 1095a-PH of May 5, 1976) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 18, 1976 (SecM/76/366). Paragraphs 3-16 below are an
updated summary of that report. Annex I contains country economic data./l
3.        During the 1960s, the economy grew in real terms at an annual rate
of about 5-6%. However, the rate of growth was less than the level that
might have been achieved if the considerable natural and human resources
of the Philippines had been exploited more effectively. Moreover, the
benefits of growth were distributed relatively unevenly. As the population
and labor force continued to grow rapidly, unemployment rose. Low levels of
taxation accentuated these problems and resulted in inadequate public invest-
ment in necessary infrastructure and social services. A relatively weak
export performance combined with a failure to reduce the import dependence of
domestic industry resulted in a steady deterioration in the balance of
payments position.
4.        During 1970-72, the authorities adopted policies of monetary and
fiscal restraint in order to lay a firm basis for future growth. With
assistance from the Consultative Group for the Philippines, they succeeded in
improving substantially the maturity structure of the external public debt.
Real GNP during that period increased at about 5% a year. In 1972, the
Government initiated a series of social and economic reforms including
an agrarian reform program, tax reforms, and an administrative reorganiza-
tion.
5.        In 1973, there was a sharp increase in the level of economic
activity in the Philippines and the growth in real GNP doubled to 10%.
/1 This is the same discussion of the economy as that in the President's
Report for the Jalaur Irrigation Project (P-1973-PH of January 5, 1977)
with minor updating.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
This upsurge was led by the international commodity boom, which resulted in
higher export incomes, a strong recovery in agricultural and industrial
production for the domestic market, and an expansion in public and private
investment.
6.        Like most countries, the Philippines was profoundly affected by
the events in the world economy that began with the marked increase in the
prices for food and petroleum in late 1973. With international trade the
equivalent of almost half of its GNP, the Philippines was quite vulnerable
to the impact of world inflation, the increase in oil prices, and the pro-
longed recession in the industrialized countries. While adverse effects of
the recession were cushioned somewhat in 1974 by a modest improvement in the
external terms of trade, the Philippines was more seriously affected in 1975
by the continued rise in import prices and reduced demand for Philippine
exports. While the international economic situation has made it difficult
for the Government to realize its objective of accelerating the rate of
development, GNP in 1974, 1975, and 1976, nevertheless, grew in real terms at
an annual rate of about 6%.
7.        Agricultural production has grown at an average rate of 3.2%
per year during the 1970s, a period which has been characterized by
unusually adverse weather conditions. Rice production increased by 25%
in 1973/74, but because of damage by typhoons, grew by only 1% in 1974/75;
the Government had to import 200,000 tons in the first half of 1975 to ensure
adequate stocks. However, the rice harvest in 1975/76 was very good due to
favorable weather conditions and during this period the Philippines was vir-
tually self-sufficient in rice. The Government continues to give the highest
priority to further increasing agricultural production and has initiated a
number of programs designed to expand the use of fertilizer, irrigation and
supervised credit. It has also intensified efforts to expand the social
services needed in rural areas, including rural electrification, health and
family planning services, and village road and small-scale irrigation projects.
8.        Although progress has been slower than initially planned, the
Government has made some progress with its agrarian reform for the nation's
one million tenant farmers who grow rice and corn. By September 30, 1976, the
Government had issued Certificates of Land Transfer to 224,000 of the
424,000 tenants on holdings of over 7 hectares; thus, title to 390,000
hectares of the total 825,000 hectares of farms occupied by such tenants has
been transferred. The Government has raised the cash portion of the com-
pensation package to landlords to reduce their resistance to land reform,
but strong administrative efforts will be necessary to ensure continued
progress in the implementation of the program.
9.        Industry accounts for almost 30% of net domestic product, one third
of total fixed investment and 15% of total employment. Industrial production,
which grew by 12% in 1973, was adversely affected in 1974 and 1975 by the
worldwide economic slowdown and the depressed demand for Philippine exports.
As a result, industrial production increased by only 4% in 1974 and 5% in
1975. Stepped-up public sector spending for infrastructure development and



- 3 -
other priority projects has contributed significantly to sustaining the
higher level of domestic activity in 1976, especially in the construction
industry. The longer term prospects for industrial growth are favorable
because of the natural and human resource endowment of the Philippines and a
very active private sector.
10.       The Government has made significant progress in increasing public
investment. The ratio of public investment to GNP is currently over 4%,
having risen from 1.8% in FY72. /1 The Government has also implemented a
series of long needed tax reforms and improvements in tax administration.
These reforms, aided by the increased economic activity, the boom in export
incomes, and domestic inflation, resulted in a 36% increase in national
government tax revenues in FY73, and an estimated 47 percent in FY74. The
ratio of national government tax revenues to GNP has increased from an
average of 9% in the early 1970s to about 12% in FY74, FY75 and FY76.
11.       Significant financial reforms have also been introduced.    At the
beginning of 1976, the Central Bank issued circulars designed to help ration-
alize the level and structure of deposit and lending rates; deposit rates
were raised for the second time in 18 months; long-standing statutory ceilings
on the long-term lending rates of banking institutions were increased from
12-14% to 19% per annum; and the ceilings on short-term lending rates were
raised. Efforts were also made to control short-term money market operations
and to strengthen the organized banking institutions. These actions should
help to improve the mobilization and allocation of domestic resources in the
Philippines.
12.       In the latter part of 1973, inflation emerged as a major problem
in the Philippines. The increase in prices was caused by the large increase
in liquidity that came with the export boom in 1973/74, and by a number of
cost-push factors, including the higher rate of world inflation. To deal
with this problem, the Government adopted contractionary monetary and fiscal
policies, and attempted to reduce the impact of inflation on consumers by
subsidizing such essential goods as wheat, imported rice, and cooking oil.
The annual inflation rate fell from 35% in 1974 to 8% in 1975 and 6% in
1976.
13.       On the external side, Philippine's balance of payments benefited
considerably from the international commodity price boom during 1973. Hligh
prices for the country's chief exports, including coconut products, sugar,
copper and wood products, resulted in a 70% increase in export earnings
and a current account surplus of about $550 million. Since mid-1974, the
external trade position has deteriorated, due to the sharp increases in the
/1 Fiscal year July 1 to June 30.



- 4 -
prices of oil and other imports, less favorable prices for Philippine exports,
and reduced volume of some exports resulting from the downturn in the econo-
mies of the Philippines' main trading partners. As a result, current account
deficits of about $900 million in 1975 and about $1,000 million in 1976 were
incurred. The current account deficits have been offset by direct foreign
investment, inflows of medium- and long-term loan capital, the use of IMF
facilities and some short-term borrowing by the Central Bank. The overall
deficit in 1976 is estimated to have been about $160 million and external
reserves stood at about $1.2 billion, equivalent to four months' imports.
Assuming continued sound debt management and the maintenance of a reasonable
maturity structure of foreign borrowings, the overall level of external debt
of the Philippines is expected to remain within reasonable limits, as the
ratio of debt service payments to exports and nonfactor services would average
about 16-17% during the rest of this decade. At present, the Bank/IDA share
in total debt outstanding is about 17% and its share in debt-service is
about 4%. These shares are expected to increase somewhat in the years ahead.
14.       Substantial foreign assistance will be essential to help finance the
large investment expenditures which will be necessary for the country's develop-
ment. In order to ensure that disbursement of external assistance reaches
levels commensurate with the level of development expenditures which will be
required during the latter part of the decade and that debt service obligations
remain within reasonable limits, total commitments of official assistance will
need to be maintained in real terms at least at the annual level of about $500
million which was achieved in 1974. The Consultative Group for the Philippines
at its meeting in Paris on June 15 and 16, 1976, agreed that it would be
reasonable for the Philippine Government to seek official aid commitments of
about $600 million in 1976 and $700 million in 1977. Total new commitments of
public and private medium- and long-term capital are estimated to have reached
$2 billion in 1976 and need to be maintained at approximately this level
through 1980.
15.       Despite the slowdown in the growth of the economy, which is pri-
marily a result of worldwide economic conditions, the Government remains
committed to regaining the growth momentum, which began in 1973, to provide
for a continued increase in incomes and employment. Both the Philippine
Government and the Bank's Basic Economic Report estimate that it should be
possible in the longer term for the Philippine economy to grow in real terms
at a rate of about 7% per annum provided that good economic management
continues and international economic conditions improve. High priority must
be accorded to expanding employment opportunities, because unemployment
and underemployment are still high and the labor force continues to grow
at 3% a year. Continued attention must also be given to expanding the



-5 -
Government's effective family planning program to reduce the rate of growth
of the population and the labor force.
16.       The Government is pursuing a development strategy which focuses on
rural development with emphasis on food production, accelerated industriali-
zation, both in capital-intensive resource based industries and labor-intensive
export industries, and a substantial expansion in public sector investment in
infrastructure to support the growth of the productive sectors. In support
of these objectives, the Government plans to continue its efforts to increase
public revenues, to strengthen the capacity of public sector agencies and to
foster the growth of exports. The Government recognizes that the increased
cost of petroleum and other imports cannot be financed indefinitely by borrow-
ing abroad, and it is actively encouraging both local and foreign investors to
expand productive investments. It will, however, take time for Government
programs to have an impact on the balance of payments, and the Government is,
therefore, seeking increased support from the international financial community
to assist in the financing of its development effort.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.       By December 31, 1976, the Philippines had received 42 Bank loans /1
(of which two were on Third Wiindow terms) and three IDA credits for a total of
$942.2 million, net of cancellations. About one third of Bank lending ($306
million) has been for infrastructure projects in power, transportation, and
water supply and another third ($303 million) has been for agriculture. Of
the remainder, about $250 million has been for industry and about $83 million
has been for social sector projects in education, population and urban devel-
opment. There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-financed
projects in the last four years compared with experience in the 1960s, when
there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso counterpart funds
and poor administration. All ongoing projects are now being implemented
reasonably well. Annex II contains a sunmary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as of December 31, 1976, and notes on the execu-
tion of ongoing projects.
18.       The Bank's lending program has been designed to continue to support
the Philippine development effort with its emphasis on agriculture and infra-
structure and its growing attention to the needs of lower income groups. About
one third of Bank lending planned for the next few years would continue to be
for agriculture and rural development projects and another third would be for
needed basic infrastructure projects, mainly in the fields of transportation
and power. The amount of lending for social sector projects, including
education, population and urban development, is expected to continue to grow
rapidly and account for nearly 20% of future lending. The balance of
future lending would be for industrial development, where growing attention
is being given to the needs of small and medium industries with high employ-
/1 Since then two more loans have been signed, a loan of $95 million for the
Third Ilighway Project on January 12, 1977 and a loan of $15 million for the
Jalaur Irrigation Project on February 14, 1977.



-6-
ment potential. The rapid growth in public revenues during the past five
years has allowed for a significant expansion in public investment and both
the ambitious Philippine development program and the Bank's growing lending
program have been designed to make good past neglect and to meet future
needs. Bank lending totalled $165.1 million in FY74, $208 million in FY75
and $268 million in FY76 compared to about $30 million a year in the preceding
five years.
19.       This is the third loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
in FY77. Other loans which may be ready for presentation later in FY77 are
for agricultural credit, land settlement, power and water supply projects; a
smallholder tree farming and forestry development project and an inter-island
shipping project may be ready in early FY78. A number of these projects are
designed to help the Government meet its objective of increasing the produc-
tivity and incomes of the poorer segments of the population.
20.       As of December 31, 1976, IFC has made commitments in the Philippines
totalling $79 million for investment in 14 projects in the fields of devel-
opment banking, power, telecommunications, ceramic tiles, paper, petroleum
products, nickel mining and refining, chemicals and synthetic fibres and
edible oils. Of these investments, $26.3 million had been sold, cancelled
and repaid, leaving a net portfolio of $52.7 million, including $1.9 million
undisbursed.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION SUBSECTOR
The Role of Agricultural Education in the Philippines
21.       Agriculture is the predominant sector in the Philippines economy
accounting for approximately one-fourth of the gross national product,
over one-half of total employment and about three-quarters of export earnings.
Current Government investment programs in the agriculture sector emphasize:
(a) increased production of staple and commercial crops through expansion of
irrigation, increased use of fertilizer and other inputs, and improvement in
extension and other services to farmers; (b) development of forest resources
and wood products for export; and (c) increased production of livestock and
fisheries to reduce imports and raise local nutrition levels. A key constraint
to the accomplishment of these goals is the serious lack of well trained agri-
cultural manpower. The agricultural education system has in the past failed to
respond adequately to requirements of employers for competent specialists and
has produced graduates who tend to be poorly trained and ill-prepared for future
employment. Although progress has been made in improving some areas of higher
agricultural education, better qualified high-level specialists in veterinary
medicine and both high and middle-level specialists in forestry and animal science
are required by Government agencies and private industry. In-service training of
existing field staff is needed in support of the Government food production
programs to increase the effectiveness of the extension services. Existing in-
service training programs have proved inadequate in making up for the deficien-
cies of past training of practicing extension workers. There are also not



- 7 -
enough farmer training programs to disseminate technology effectively. Such
programs need to be expanded and improved to complement the work of extension
services and to benefit many farmers not yet reached by the extension services.
Agricultural Education System
22.       Agricultural education constitutes a small portion of the total
education system in the Philippines. Enrollments, however, have increased
substantially over the past decade, and there has been a proliferation of
agricultural institutions. This rapid growth, accompanied by financial
constraints and an inadequate number of well-trained teaching staff, has led
to instruction which is generally of low quality. As a result, graduates at
all levels tend to be poorly trained and have difficulty in qualifying for
employment in their respective fields. To respond more adequately to develop-
ment needs, the agricultural education system requires: (a) consolidation to
allow better allocation of resources to improve the quality of selected
institutions with high potential; (b) improvement of the quality and relevance
of technician training; and (c) creation of institutionalized systems of
nonformal education.
23.       At the higher level, enrollments have increased by almost eight
times from 4,000 in 1964 to about 31,000 in 1974; the number of graduates has
only increased by less than three times to about 3,000. There are currently
46 colleges giving degree courses in general agriculture, 18 in forestry, 21
in animal science, and 4 in veterinary medicine. M4ost of these institutions
share the common problems of curricula that are often outdated, lack of well-
qualified staff and insufficient facilities and equipment. These problems,
coupled with poor student preparation at the secondary level, nonselective
admissions policies, and high teacher-student ratios, have generally resulted
in low internal efficiency indicated above. Many graduates fail to meet
minimum requirements for employment as professionals in their fields. Within
the agricultural education system, the University of the Philippines (UP)
offers the best quality instruction, and its graduates are preferred by the
public and private sectors. In particular, the Colleges of Agriculture and
Forestry and the Department of Animal Science at Los Banos, and the College of
Veterinary Medicine at Diliman are recognized as the chief sources of qualified
graduate-level manpower and technical advice in these areas. However, the UP
College of Agriculture needs further staff development to strengthen its
graduate programs. The College of Forestry and Department of Animal Science
both require additional physical facilities and equipment and improvements in
staff quality. The UP College of Veterinary Medicine at Diliman needs to be
relocated at Los Banos where better physical facilities and the needed closer
physical and academic relationship with the Department of Animal Science can
be provided. Although strong regional agricultural colleges are being
established in Luzon and Mindanao, a similar regional college needs to be
developed in the Visayas, one of the most important and poorest regions of the
country. Higher education in the Visayas is offered by eight institutions,



- 8 -
most of which are substandard. Of the eight, the Visayas State College of
Agriculture (VISCA) has the highest potential for development into a service-
oriented regional college of agriculture. To perform this role, however,
VISCA needs staff development, physical facilities, and equipment.
24.       At the post secondary level, 63 schools enroll about 4,000 and
graduate about 600 technicians each year in poultry or pig husbandry, farm
mechanics, and forestry. At present, no middle-level training is given
in animal disease and protection, but the Government plans to start such a
program in the near future. In general, most of the schools lack qualified
teachers, facilities and equipment, and both internal efficiency and output
are low.  Originally conceived as terminal courses with emphasis on practical
training, two-year diploma courses have largely become a means of college
entry for those who do not qualify for direct admissions.
25.       Systematic and coordinated programs for effective training of
extension workers and farmers have not yet been developed in the Philippines.
In-service training is currently conducted separately by about 15 employing
agencies. These courses (three days to nine months duration) are generally
on an ad hoc basis and have weak curricula and little follow-up to evaluate
effectiveness. There is little coordination between agencies; this tends to
result in duplication of efforts. Four residential farmer training centers,
each experimenting with a different methodology, are in operation and seem to
be effective although results are still under study. Various agencies are
conducting nonresidential farmer training using demonstration farms and radio
programs. These training programs are designed to identify and develop
farmer leaders who, through the demonstration of better standards of crop and
animal husbandry on their own farms, would complement the efforts of the
extension services. On completion of the training program, they would serve
as village-level contacts for the extension service.
Government Strategy for Development of Agricultural Education
26.       The Government has developed a strategy for the rationalization
and improvement of agricultural education. Central to the strategy is the
Technical Panel for Agricultural Education in the Department of Education and
Culture which the Government set up in January 1977 to assist the Secretary
of Education in formulating overall policies and in coordinating development
plans in the subsector. One of the primary functions of the Technical Panel
is to assess agricultural institutions and to establish an effective accredita-
tion system as a basis for central budgetary allocations. The goal is
to phase out substandard schools and colleges and thereby allocate scarce
resources for the upgrading of selected agricultural institutions with high
potential. The Government has agreed to maintain the Technical Panel with
terms of reference and composition acceptable to the Bank; the Panel would be
assisted by a full time Secretariat which would be fully staffed by March 31,
1978 (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). The organization of the agri-
cultural education system would be comprised of: (a) apex institutions
at the national level to serve as centers of excellence in the fields of
agriculture, forestry, fisheries, and animal sciences/veterinary medicine;
(b) one agricultural college with high standards in each of the three major
regions (Luzon, Htindanao, and Visayas), around which selected colleges and



- 9 -
agricultural high schools would be clustered to serve as vocational/technical
training or nonformal education centers; (c) experimental agricultural high
schools to improve the relevance of secondary education to rural needs; (d)
post secondary two-year technician training programs to provide practical
skills in various disciplines of agriculture to those not pursuing four-year
degrees; and (e) effective systems of training extension workers and farmer
leaders in support of food production programs.
Bank Lending Strategy for Development of Agricultural Education
27.       The Bank first began to support agricultural education in 1964,
when a loan of $6.0 million (Loan 393-PH) was made to assist in financing
the development program of the University of the Philippines at Los Banos-
College of Agriculture (UPLB-CA). Although the project was completed three
years behind schedule in May 1973 because of delays in the provision of
budgetary funds, substantial progress was made under the project in helping
UPLB-CA become a national center with excellence in agricultural education.
Further assistance is, however, needed for the UPLB staff development program
so that it can develop its forestry and animal sciences programs. These
subjects did not receive assistance under the First Education Project and
have remained comparatively less developed. Under the Second Education
Project (Credit 349-PH, signed in 1973), development of the regional agricul-
tural colleges in Luzon and Hlindanao began, and 13 experimental agricultural
high schools and 6 barrio development high schools were established as a step
toward increasing the relevance of secondary education through emphasis on
practical training. This project is being implemented successfully. The
Third Education Project (Loan 1224T-PH, dated April 8, 1976) for textbook
development for primary and secondary schools is progressing satisfactorily.
The proposed project is designed to help the Government implement its longer
term programs for the development of agricultural education.
28.       The lessons learned from implementation of the First Education
Project have been taken into account in the design of the proposed project:
(a) the Project Performance Audit Report (Sec. 75-516, July 30, 1975) had
reported that most of the buildings constructed under the project were too
scattered due to the desire of the University authorities to have the new
buildings near the then existing ones, and due to lack of adequate coordination
between the various consultant architects. The report concluded that a more
integrated layout would have been less costly and would have allowed greater
efficiency in the future growth of the University. The proposed project takes
these points into account and the new construction at Los Banos is planned in
accordance with a recently adopted campus plan. Furthermore, the proposed
regional college for the Visayas has engaged a master planner and consulting
architects to prepare an integrated master campus plan and physical plans;
(b) the audit report also referred to the proliferation of agricultural
education, inadequate utilization of resources and low quality of agricul-
tural education. The Government has now established a Technical Panel,
referred to in paragraph 26 above, to help maintain educational standards of
the existing institutions and to regulate the development of agricultural



- 10 -
education and training; and (c) in order for UPLB to improve its staff
retention, the above report advocates better incentives, mainly in the form of
further educational opportunities. The University has prepared staff develop-
ment programs, including post doctoral programs, to upgrade staff quality and
also to provide incentives for its staff to remain at UPLB.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Objectives
29.       The main objective of the project is to increase the supply of
well-qualified agricultural manpower needed to implement important agricul-
tural development programs in crops, forestry, and livestock. The project
would assist in the implementation of the Government's education development
strategy in the following key areas: (a) strengthening staff development at
the University of the Philippines at Los Banos, particularly in the College
of Forestry and the Department of Animal Science; (b) establishing strong
centers of national excellence at Los Banos in forestry, animal science, and
veterinary medicine; (c) establishing a strong regional college of agriculture
in the Visayas, a region not covered by the second project; and (d) creating
a national system of in-service training for practicing agricultural extension
workers and other rural development staff and pilot programs designed to test
various methods of training farmer leaders. The project would help the
Government achieve a better balance among disciplines (agriculture, forestry,
animal husbandry, and veterinary medicine), among regions (Visayas, Luzon,
and Mindanao), and between formal and nonformal agricultural education.
Background
30.       The project proposal was prepared by the Government with the assist-
ance of UNESCO and appraised by a Bank mission during January/ February 1976.
A follow-up appraisal mission visited the Philippines in November 1976.
Negotiations were held in Washington in January 1977. The Philippine dele-
gation was led by His Excellency Eduardo Z. Romualdez, Ambassador to the
United States and the Honorable Juan L. Manuel, Secretary of the Department
of Education and Culture.
Project Description
31.       The proposed project would consist of:
(a) Civil works, procurement of furniture and equipment, and the
provision of technical assistance for the College of Forestry and
the Department of Animal Science of the UPLB; the College of
Veterinary Medicine at Diliman, which will be moved to UPLB; the
Visayas State College of Agriculture; the Philippine Training
Centers for Rural Development (PTC-RD) (one national and five
regional training centers and six farmer training centers); and



- 11 -
(b)  Technical assistance:  fellowships to strengthen the technical and
management capability of the staff of (i) the Education Development
Projects Implementing Task Force (EDPITAF), (ii) the Secretariat of
the National Governing Board for PTC-RD, which will be responsible
for implementing an important part of the project, and (iii) the
Technical Panel in the Department of Education and Culture; and
specialist services to assist (i) EDPITAF in carrying out feasiblity
studies for future education projects, and (ii) the Philippine Center
for Economic Development (PCED) in conducting industrial policy
studies.
Detailed Features of the Project
32.       University of the Philippines at Los Banos, College of Forestry
(UPLB-CF) ($3.2 million)./l The primary objective of the proposed project
component is to develop the UPLB-CF as a center of national excellence
for forestry education and training so as to ensure a continuous supply of
better trained foresters, wood scientists, and technologists needed by
Government agencies and private industry and to strengthen forestry research
programs. Assistance would be provided for improvement of physical facilities
and equipment, as well as for upgrading the staff through overseas fellowship
programs. The enrollment would increase from 415 to 890 by 1981. Particular
attention would be given to strengthening the newly established Department
of Wood Science and Technology because of its potential contributions to the
wood-processing industry. Some 30 additional staff required for the planned
enrollment increase would be recruited primarily from among the College's own
post-graduates.
33.       University of the Philippines at Los Banos, Department of Animal
Science (UPLB-DAS) ($4.4 million). The proposed project would enable
the UPLB-DAS to increase the quantity and improve the quality of graduates
who are in high demand for government, private industry, teaching, and
research positions. As part of the Government's higher education development
strategy, the DAS would be upgraded as a national center. The proposed
project would provide physical facilities and equipment. The staff and
curricula would be strengthened through overseas training in fields closely
related to livestock development, such as reproductive physiology, meat
science, and animal by-products utilization. The UPLB-DAS will be closely
linked physically and functionally with the relocated College of Veterinary
Medicine (UPCVM). The proposed component will enable DAS to increase the
enrollment from 200 to 390 by 1981 and to expand its function of teaching
students from other faculties of UPLB from about 1,000 to 2,000 students.
34.       University of the Philippines, College of Veterinary Medicine
(UPCVM) ($3.9 million). The project would provide for a planned reloca-
tion of the UPCVM from Diliman campus near Mlanila to Los Banos and provide
for expansion of enrollment and improvement in the quality of teaching,
research, and extension programs of the UPCVM. The Government strategy
/1 Figures in parentheses are the estimated total cost of the individual
components, net of contingencies.



- 12 -
to upgrade the UPCVM as a national center would be supported through the
proposed provision of physical facilities which would be closely related
to the facilities and equipment being provided for UPLB-DAS. Overseas
fellowships and specialists' services would be provided to assist in staff
development. The enrollment would be increased from 260 to 400 by 1981.
The 15 additional staff members required for the expansion would be recruited
mostly from the College's own post-graduate program. A two-year animal
science technician training program for 220 students would be established
jointly by the relocated UPCVM and the UPLB-DAS.
35.       Staff Development at the UPLB ($2.5 million).   As indicated in the
preceding paragraphs, the proposed project would make substantial provision
for strengthening staff capability in teaching, research, and extension. Staff
development is a major aspect of the UPLB's long-term development plan emphasizing
expansion and quality improvement of graduate training programs in development-
oriented fields. This would reduce dependency on foreign training in the
future, particularly at the doctorate level, and would further reinforce the
role of the UPLB as the major source of trained agricultural manpower and
technical advice to other colleges and government agencies. The proposed
loan would finance a total of about 200 man-years of overseas fellowships for
UPLB staff in fields of specialization for which training is not presently
offered in the Philippines. In order to help ensure that the foreign fellowship
training is relevant to Philippine circumstances, wherever possible, the fellows
would be encouraged to return to UPLB to do thesis research after completion of
the necessary classwork abroad. Government regulations stipulate that, after
completing their doctoral degrees, each fellowship recipient must teach at the
University for a period equivalent to two and one half times the man-years the
recipient spent abroad. The Government has agreed to provide local fellowships
for about 220 UPLB teachers for PhD and Masters' programs in the Philippines
(Section 3.04(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). The proposed staff development
program, including local fellowships, would raise the proportion of doctoral
degree holders from 26% at present to about 40% by 1981. In particular, it
would enable the University to commence teaching in new fields important to
agricultural development in the Philippines, e.g., wood engineering and
forest products utilization, hydrogeology, post-harvest physiology, biophysics,
ecology, and aerial photogrammetry.
36.       Visayas State College of Agriculture (VISCA) ($12.7 million).    The
main objectives of the proposed assistance to VISCA located in Baybay, Leyte,
are to: (a) develop VISCA into a regional center of excellence in agricul-
tural education, research, and extension; (b) train competent agricultural
specialists, teachers, technicians and extension wiorkers to meet regional
requirements; (c) promote research activity and the development of extension
methodology appropriate for the region; and (d) enable VISCA to disseminate
research results and new technology through extension training, radio pro-
grams, and publications. The proposed project would help finance necessary
physical facilities, equipment, and overseas fellowships (85 man-years) and
specialists' services (4 man-years) for curriculum development. Under the
project, enrollment would increase from 950 to 1,500 students. To support
the planned increases in enrollment, research and extension activities, the
number of staff would need to be increased from 135 to 200. To help ensure
that VISCA develops an adequately trained teaching staff, the Government
would train about 25 teachers of VISCA in domestic PhD programs and 70 in



- 13 -
domestic Masters programs (Section 3.04 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The majority of this staff would be trained at UPLB. During the project
implementation period, VISCA would submit its annual development program to
the Bank for comments and would obtain the approval of the Technical Panel
for Agricultural Education before new fields of study are added or its
enrollment is expanded beyond 1,500 students (Section 3.04 (a) and (b) of the
draft Loan Agreement). This would help ensure the orderly and rational
development of VISCA's program.
37.       Philippine Training Centers for Rural Development (PTC-RD) ($6.3 mil-
lion). The proposed investment in PTC-RD would enable the Government to
develop a national system for in-setvice training of field extension workers
and farmer leaders in support of the national food production and rural develop-
ment programs. Under the project, a National Training Center (NTC) ($1.0
million), five Regional Training Centers (RTCs) ($2.5 million), and six Farmer
Training Centers (FTCs) ($2.0 million), would be constructed and equipped. The
NTC would develop training programs and materials for the RTCs, train staff and
evaluate programs. The functions of the RTCs, to be established at five
agricultural colleges in key areas, would be to (a) develop training courses to
meet local needs, (b) provide in-service training to field staff involved in
rural development work, and (c) to supply feedback for research on agriculture
and other problems encountered in the rural development process. The in-service
training would be for about 450 rural development workers per course or about
3,600 a year. By 1981, about 70% of the estimated total number of workers
would have been trained by the five RTCs. Courses, which would last about one
month, would be designed to meet the specific needs of each region and partici-
pating Government agencies. Programs would cover crop production, animal
breeding and husbandry, plant protection and rural communications. About 60%
of the trainees would be extension workers from the Department of Agriculture.
The balance of trainees would come from the Departments of Natural Resources,
Agrarian Reform and Local Government and Community Development. The 40 trainers
required would be selected from senior line agency staff with field experience.
38.       The main objective of the FTCs is to assist the Government in devel-
oping a pilot scheme for training farmer leaders through short courses on agri-
cultural technology and management, aimed at achieving increased food production
and rural incomes. Courses, which will be of about a week's duration, will be
commodity-oriented, will teach up-to-date farm production technology, and
will concentrate on communication skills and managerial aspects of agricul-
tural and rural development programs. A total of 45,000 farmer leaders would be
trained at the FTCs during the five-year implementation. On their return to
the villages, these farmer leaders, with assistance from local extension
agents and FTC staff, would establish demonstration farm plots and train
farmers from the surrounding areas, thus multiplying benefits of the training.
Bank financing would be provided for simple physical facilities and equipment,



- 14 -
mainly at existing demonstration stations operated by the Department of Agri-
culture. The trainers needed would be recruited mainly from the Department
of Agriculture and would be given necessary training at the proposed NTC. If
the proposed pilot scheme is successful, the Government plans eventually
to establish an FTC in each of the 73 provinces in the Philippines. The
project would also provide equipment and materials ($0.8 million) to the
Bureau of Agricultural Extension units in the service areas of the six FTCs
to facilitate back-up support by extension personnel to FTC-trained farmer
leaders and to establish a mode of extension service operations that takes
fullest advantage of the village-level contacts established through the
farmer leader training. The National Governing Board (NGB), which includes
representatives of the agencies concerned with agriculture and rural develop-
ment, would be responsible for policy and program formulation for the National,
Regional and Farmer Training Centers. The NGB would send to the Bank for
comments its annual operational plans for the different training centers
(Section 3.10 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
39.       Project Management Support ($0.1 million).    Seven man-years of
fellowships and study tours would be financed under the project to strengthen
staff capability of the Rural Development Section of the Education Implementing
Task Force (EDPITAF), the project implementation unit. The objective is to
develop a core of staff capable of formulating and executing plans in agricul-
tural and rural education and training. Two man-years of fellowships would
also be provided to strengthen the staff capability of the Technical Panel
for Agricultural Education.
40.       Feasibility and Industrial Policy Studies ($0.4 million).    Four and
one half years of advisory services would be financed to assist EDPITAF in
carrying out feasibility studies for a number of future development projects.
At the request of the Government and as a part of its efforts to improve its
research capabilities in economic policy areas, two years of advisory services
would be financed to assist the Philippine Center of Economic Development in
conducting a workshop and studies on industrial policy.
Project Cost and Financing
41.       The total project cost is estimated at $45.3 million equivalent
(including $3.3 million for taxes). This includes a physical contingency of 7%
of base cost estimates and an overall price contingency amounting to about 27%
of project costs (including physical contingency) to take into account the
expected rates of international and domestic inflation. Base costs per man-year
of specialists' services and overseas fellowships are based on the following:
$55,000 for specialists; $15,000 for study tour; $12,000 for doctoral fellow-
ships; and $10,000 for masters' degree fellowships. Detailed cost estimates
are given in Annex III. The proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange
component of the project, estimated at $25.0 million, or 60% of the total
project cost net of taxes. The balance would be financed from Government
budgetary resources. Expenditures for professional services and fellowships
incurred after l4ay 1, 1976 are recommended for retroactive financing up to a
maximum of $450,000; these expenditures were necessary to ensure the timely
preparation of the project and to initiate the staff development program.



- 15 -
Project Implementation
42.       The project implementing unit, EDPITAF, in the Department of Educa-
tion and Culture, currently in charge of implementing the Second and Third
Education Projects, would be responsible for project administration, procurement,
financial control and liaison with the Bank. The teaching programs of the
National and Regional Training Centers and the Farmer Training Centers would be
the responsibility of a Secretariat of the National Governing Board in the
Department of Agriculture. Key staff of the Secretariat have been appointed
and prospective trainers for regional rural training and farmer training
centers have been selected and given a two-week orientation training. Specific
training programs for extension workers and farmer leaders and budgetary
arrangements have also been worked out. A master plan for VISCA and sketch
plans for all other project institutions have been prepared. Design and
supervision of civil works for VISCA and the University of the Philippines are
being carried out by local consultants, assisted in the case of VISCA by a
foreign campus planner. The architectural division of EDPITAF has prepared
sketch designs for the Philippine Training Centers for Rural Development.
Satisfactory sites have already been acquired for all project institutions.
A Fellowships Committee has been established and selection criteria and proce-
dures for awarding fellowships have been formulated.
Monitoring and Evaluation
43.       The Government would establish a monitoring and evaluation system
for all the project components. This will ensure that data essential to
the project execution are provided to the project managers. The University
of the Philippines and Visayas State College of Agriculture components will
be monitored by the project implementation unit, and the Philippine Training
Centers for Rural Development will be monitored by the Secretariat of NGB
in the Department of Agriculture (Section 3.08 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The Government would also prepare a report providing its assessment of the
project and the lessons learned during the project implementation, within three
months after the Closing Date (Section 3.08 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
44.       Major contracts for civil works, furniture, and equipment with an
estimated total cost of $30.0 million would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.     In
the evaluation of bids for equipment and furniture, qualified local manufacturers
would be given a preference of 15% or the level of customs duties, whichever is
less. Contracts for civil works, estimated to cost less than $700,000 each,
with an estimated total cost of about $5.5 million, and contracts for furniture
and equipment, estimated to cost less than $50,000 each, and with an estimated
total cost of about $2.0 million, would not be suitable for international
competitive bidding. These civil works contracts would be distributed widely
throughout the country and phased over time, and the furniture contracts are
small and could not be easily aggregated into larger bid packages. These
contracts would therefore be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with Government procedures which are accept-
able to the Bank. Foreign bidders would be allowed to participate. Furniture



- 16 -
for VISCA, estimated to cost $200,000, would be produced by the College's own
maintenance and production workshop, which is currently producing inexpensive
furniture of acceptable quality. In addition, miscellaneous items, in contracts
not exceeding $10,000 equivalent, subject to a limit of $250,000 equivalent in
the aggregate, could be purchased on the basis of acceptable local procedures
that would involve solicitation of a minimum of three price quotations. Books
(estimated value $300,000) would be procured directly from authorized distributors
after negotiations for bulk purchases.
45.       The proposed loan would be disbursed on the basis of:    (a) 33% of
total expenditures on civil works and furniture; (b) 50% of total expenditures
on consulting services for master planning and architectural designs; (c) 100%
of foreign expenditures for directly imported goods and on the ex-factory
price of locally manufactured goods, or 65% of expenditures on goods which are
imported but procured locally; and (d) 100% of expenditures on technical
assistance. A schedule of estimated disbursement is given in Annex III.
Project Benefits
46.       The project is designed to provide for the strengthening of agricul-
tural education institutions and to bring about a significant improvement in
the quality of agricultural education and training. It would thereby help the
Government to meet the manpower requirements of the agricultural sector and to
realize its objective of increasing agricultural production. Assistance for
facilities, equipment, and staff development in agriculture, forestry, animal
science, and veterinary medicine is expected to result in greater numbers of
graduates who qualify for professional occupations in their respective fields.
The proposed assistance to the Visayas State College of Agriculture would pro-
vide a third major region of the Philippines with a strong agricultural college
to supply manpower and technical assistance for regional development. With the
assistance to be provided under the project the institutions involved will pro-
vide the following percentages of the projected annual national manpower needs
between 1976 and 1985: the College of Forestry, 25%; the College of Veterinary
Medicine, 60%; the Department of Animal Science, 40%; and VISCA, 20% of the
regional agricultural manpower needs. Even with the project, there would still
be sizable manpower deficits. These are the inevitable result of the time lag
involved in increasing the output of well-trained graduates. The project,
however, has been geared to the maximum feasible rate of expansion, taking into
account the urgent need for quality improvement.
47.       The proposed project would also help establish institutions for
nonformal agricultural education. By 1981, the proposed Rural Training
Centers would provide in-service training to about 3,600 rural field workers
annually. This is expected to afford practically all 2.3 million farm
families access to well-trained extension workers by 1985. The proposed



- 17 -
Farmer Training Centers, are expected to help the Government develop effective.
farmer training programs which would help expand the effective use of the
high-yielding crop varieties, fertilizers, pesticides, credit, and marketing.
Every farmer leader trained directly would be expected to impart knowledge
and skills learned to 10 farmers in his village and, in all, about 450,000
farmers would benefit from the farmer leader training programs in a five-year
period.
Conclusion
48.       The project is designed to support the Government's program of
developing education and training to increase agricultural production.
Realization of the full benefits of the proposed project will depend on
effective Government actions in a number of areas. (a) It is important that
the Technical Panel for Agricultural Education and its Secretariat develop
into an effective institution by rapidly improving its staff capability and
successfully fulfilling its responsibilities for implementing an effective
system of accrediting agricultural education institutions. (b) In order to
make effective use of better trained agricultural graduates, it will be
necessary for the Government to improve the salaries and organization of
Government agencies concerned with increasing agricultural production. The
Government is studying the issue of civil service salaries and has initiated
a review of the agriculture extension system. In this connection the Govern-
ment has requested the Bank to send a mission to the Philippines to review
their agricultural extension system and to make recommendations for its
improvement; the mission is scheduled for April. (c) The success of the
nonformal training components will depend on active, participation by the user
agencies in program development and evaluation of results. The organi
zational arrangements for these components have been designed to help ensure
appropriate coordination and participation of the agencies concerned. Bank
staff will closely monitor developments on these matters. Although some risks
relating to (a), (b) and (c) in this paragraph are involved, the benefits of
the project are substantial and, with the conditions proposed, the project can
be expected to make a significant contribution to the development of the
Philippines.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUIIENTS AND AUTHORITY
49.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank, the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of the draft
resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors. Features of particular interest are referred to in
Section III of Annex IV to this report.



- 18 -
50.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
51.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 16, 1977
Washington, D. C.



TABLE 34                                        Page I of I4 pages
PHILIPPINES         - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND  AREA  (THOU  K)42)--               - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - -  - - - -  - - - - -
___ ..........                      ~~~~~~PHILIPPINES                    REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       300.0                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      116.3                       1 960     L970    ESTIMATE          THAILAND       rURREY         KOREA,REP. CF *
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     140.0     230.0      310.0              2 10. 0     48 0. 0     2to0.0
PUPULATION AkND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            217. 4    36. 9      4 2. 5             36 .3       35.7        31 .4
POPUJLATIJN DENiSITY
PER SQUARE KH.                       91.0      123.0      142.0               71.0        46.C       319.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          .       27 9.O     326.0 Id              6.61. 0             1 320. 0
VITAL STATISTLCS
AVERAGE BIRTH RATE I/THOU)           45. 1      4 4 .2     4 3. 8             4 4. 3      4 0. 6      35. 0
AVERAGE DEATH RATE c/THOU)            11.9      13.2       10.5               13.1        14.4        11.4
14FANT MlORTALITY RATE (/THUU)          .       8 0.0      68.0 L!             0.0       14 5. 0
LTFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       4 9. 4     55. 6      58. 4              55 .5       5 4 .4      5 .17
,~RUSS HEPRJDUCTION NATE              3. 5 /     .3. 3      3. 3               3 .2        2 .6 /a.b   2.6
PJPULATION GROWTH RATE Cl)
TOTIAL                                3 .0       3.0        2.9                3 .1        2 .5        2.3
URBAN                                  4 .0      4 .0       4. 0               4 .9        426.4
U V A N POPULAT ION (C O F TOTAL)       2 5.3      217.6     2 9.0               15 .        31.2       41L. 2
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO) 14 YEARS                      4 5.17     4 5 .6     Ih.0 /a            45 .0       4 1. 8      42. 1
15 TO 64 TEARS                       5t.6       51.6       54  0    ~52.0                 53.9        54.6
65 YEARS ArRO OVER                    2.1 7       .8        2.0                3.04.33.
AGE UEPENDEACY RATIO                     D. 9      0 .9       0.9                0. 9        0. 9        0.8
ECUNUMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3/b      1.5       1. 4 b              1.         1.1L        1. 4
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, T HOU).                 35 4. 0   28172. 5            4170.0
USERS (I OF HARRIED WOMEN)              .        2. 0      1 9. 0             1 0.'        8.2        42. 0
E MPL DYHENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         10100.0   Ie300.0    14200.0            Iol00.0     14 50D.0 0  10400.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE CC)          6 1. 0     55.0/a    56.0 /c             7 9.0       67.0       50. 5 /
UNEM4PLOYED El OF LABOR FORCE)           6 .0        . 0      4. 0                           4. 0 ~      s. o/
INCOmE DISTRIBUTION
1OF PIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST   SC OF HJUSEHOLDS           28.6         .        24. 8/d               .        3 2 .8      117.1I
HIGHEST 200 OF HOUSEHOLDS            56. 2                 54. O d                        6 0.6       4 4. 5
LOWEST  AD: OF HOUSEHOLOS             11.9 2                3 11. 9d                            f       . 1
LOWEST  420  OF HOUSEHOLDS             4. L   . 93.9                            ..92.9                117.1
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
U WNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..                    ..                          5 3.1       28. 0
C UWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS             .         ..        .                   .         0. 9        2. 0
HEAL TV AND NUTRITIUN
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                  ..         .      3220.0 /910.0                 2 22 0.0    22 10.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON              .         .     2000.0   e         6 650. 0    1860.0 Zs   1160.00
PUPULATIONi PER HOSPITAL WED          118J.0     850.0         .                850.t0     49 0.0     1 92 0.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF-
CALORIES Cl OF REQUIREMENTS)           3. 0    100.0       9?.q La105.0                  11 0.0      103.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               4 4 .0    45 .0      41.0               52.0        1 8.0       65. 0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          I).0Li     2. 0        ..11.0 a                     22.OA       19. 0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              9 .0/cg    9 .0      9.3/a.                        15.C/b
E,DUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        91 0/e   108 0k     110.0a.'g           82.0        I1.0Li     104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     26.07-     4'8.0      48.0Ogi             16. 0      28.0        41. 0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST ANI SECOND LEVEL)              10.0O     10.0       10.0               12.0        11.0        12.0
VUCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(I OF SECONDVARYT                     14. G Z    6 .0       9.                 14 .0 /e   1 4 .0      16. 0
ADULT LITERACY RATE El)                   ...                 2.0                IV. 0      5 5.OL1     817. 0
PERSONS PER RU01M (AVERAGE)                                                                   1 .  ..  .A  2.1
OCCUPIED UWELLINGS WITHIOUT
PIPED WATER (C)                      80).0      16 .'0        .                           6 4.0       80.0Lg
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(C OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 11. 0      2 3.0         ..                          4 1.0       50.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY CT)                     ..         . 0        .                            1 8. 0      30. 0
C ON SUM1PTION
RADOU RECEIVCRS (PER THOU POP)          22.0       45.0       45.u               1V.0       89.0       126.0
PIASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           3.0        8.0       9.0                 5.0        4.0         2.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           100.0     Z35.0      315.0               124.0      241.0       301.0
NEWSPRINT CKG./YAPER CAP)                1 .3       2. 0       1. 5               1 .0        0. 7       3 .4
SEE MOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REViRSE



AbElf I
Page 2 of is pog.s
RNOTES
Unless otherwise noted, dots for 1960 refer to say year betweso 1959 And 1961, for 1970 botwen 1968 and 1.970, and for Most R-ecat Ratimate betnean
1973 and 1975.
-m torso has been seleted ase an objeotlee e,0-trY on the b.ase of its slollar population, location and jocose leve and, like the Phillppicco, it Is
expected to gro rapidly in the coining years.
PIIIPPRP            1.960     A   1950-55w   As Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;        a.  1960-62;  /d   1962;  A,   7-12
and 13-16 7.ars of Age respectively; /f Not Incluading eooatbona2 ohort-t.n courses.
1970     Ia   As permctage of eaploymnt;     /b  7-12 and 13-16 years of age respectively;     /   Not includaing private vocatioata
schools or vocational short-tmenocumes.
MOS ROtT UDETYIiTRsTE a l972i /b Ratio of poPolation wider 15 sod 65 Ann ova> to total labor force; L. An percantge of
of eployment;    Id  19Th;   /.  Includiog   idwives;  If   1969-71 -vrago;    /   7-12 and 13-16 years
of age respectively.
Tiir,IRN            1970      A   1 96t-66;  /b  7-13 and 11-18 years of age resp.ctiv-Jy;     /c  Public schools which inoods technical education at the
pest-secondary leve.
TURKEY              1970      A   EcPolodee 17 eastern presisices;  /b  1965467;   /a  RAtio of Population wider 15 sad 65 and over to labor force 15
years and over; /a 15 ye.ar and over, excludes ausmployed a. Registered oil)-; If Disposable looms; La In-
oloding Assistant nones and midwives;      A   1964-66;   &   7-fl year   of age;  L   Persons 6 years old and over who
tell the canons takers they can reald and writ..
tKOREA, REP. OP     1970     ~As. percentage of sopiopyent;       A    Registered;  /.  Relgistered, not all practicing to the country;    /d   Woter piped
inside.
R8, Noveber 3, 1976
DEFpNsofTiiS OF SOCIAl. GNDTCATORS
Land A---  (th.. j..2)                                       ~~~~~~~~~Popuistion popors -Inc Perso   - PuPu1totin divided by saickr of practitina
Tet.l    Totol oursc    ares   conp,ising isod cr00 00d  alsodwaes                   OsIo sand female gv-do-t nurso, "tr--d" or "certified" nurs..s, sad
Acnic. -sos -revt vstinoce of ogric-ituval arcs used temPOrarily          c          suiia-y p-r-oe        with irsining or ecperiesce.
penronc-tly for crops, posture, sarbet & kitchen gardea. or to lie               Popoistion nor hospinsi bad - Population divided by     omber of h.spitsi beds
fallow.                                                                            av-ilsbis in public and privstc ges-ra    and opecislisod haspitsi and
r-habilitistio testers., coiud-a suri c    bhses sod aotsbiishmamts for
GOP er ayis (il)  GNfP par capita esltin too arourre      a mrks> princ ..      uo..cdis.i sd p-oventive caps
ealcuIsted by sam    convrsion method so World Bsnk AtIss (19 73-c75              e  sica suopl     of calories i     of resuitree tca) - Ceputsd fron energy
basis), 1960, 1970 sad 1973 dots.                                                          - qiaet of nor food nopplivo  -vaisbis is coomtcy per capita per doy;
s-aislebl supplies comprise domestic production, imports less moparts,
Ponolacion and vital tistintico                                                      sod chsnges io stock, set suple        cud       Ia feed, see.ds, qoanti-
Pnvuiakcs(midcr. illin) -An of July firot:    if not avilable,               cs osd In fod proveuig sod loos en in diotribution, r-qireisooto
scrsos     of nC. emd-yesroeiso,1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                          mmcc ospti-ted by FA0 hosed on physiological needs f.r corn1       -ctitiy
sod heaslch coniderieg ovir-aoec.ltatinperatare, body weightas, age sand
oem diniribo,ciosa of poplistion, aod allowing lit for asate at hasoehold
fopulotioc de-oity - Pee sconce us - Mid-year POPo1atio      Per Square kilo-         leel.
mter (lii bect--o) of total ores.                                                Per. aePit ss  4 of e   entis(graaa pe      d  f_ - Protein -oateot of per
Pcpuspin dasio-cr Oscar ha of aspic. land - Cmapoted so shov        for         ospViract sup'ply ovf food pev d.y, slet sppiy of foud is defineda
sirioultors1 land onybove; reqolrsesto                                                                   for all c-umaies sotabliohed by USDA eooi
RecS-ph Scroicce y-ide for a ea1M-c allo-ce- oP 60 ares of rot1
Vital a_stini-o                                                                       prPesi per day, sod 20 gra-     of atiand palse protein, of which
roebirhpt      c   huadaesc-Ana                  iebrh        o  thousan.d         IC) graow sh-Id ha amlisal protein, these standards ore lower thas thosle
of sid-yoop Pipsioticon   tcc-Year grithoeti caeae       ending to 196i and         of 75 gros of atatl protein sod 23 grau      of asisaI protef as so
1972, and fiie-yc-    -cergo endlos in 1975 fcr o-e     recant sotirnvte,           a-rsoc for abs world, proposed by PAO isnb teThird World Pood Sorcey.
Crudedeat esceasp hossed. scr~   A-.A.Ia dooths per thou....d o-f odd-   Pav,nc co      li cei frma a        .les sod pulse  - Protein suppiy of food
yeuppopoanlo, ta-yos  sofluctc occaescding in 1960 sod 1979 and           dp "ited iro   anois o7      oio       ro    prdy
five-year -vcragv ending in i975 foostnpce          t  st  e                      Deth rota (/thoo) age    1-4 - dA0-1 deaths per thousad is oge group
loOset r    taisinyrotc i/thou)I - Annos1 deaths of infants ondr one year of          1-4 yearn, to p,hildreo in this cge grouy, soggeoted assondtr-c- of
ago per thousanad Ive biptbs.                                                       maioctrition
Lifeo. ece_tac ontbirth (r)-         cegesm      rofy yars of life rom..Lsiog
an birch, osually five-ea     ovrageIedog to 160, 1970 and 1973 for               Edooctiom
de oIog tenrie.      AAdjusted tanreloeg                                                           ati   -  pricue o,chool - E-r11lenc of cli ages as
Irocu ree tduciokr       tnAvrge nobe       ofIIc, d-ash-as      wma    cli-           pe    egeo    prmay schocl-sgo population, ielalda- children aged
bear in her ceolrpoutv             eIod if she sperieac.. present age-              b-li yearn but sdjoa tad for different lengths of prlciary edoa..rion;
sPecific fer,iliity races, -scily fic     y-sr avrages coding in 1969,               for -ontniras with mavrs       doostics, cnrolI-cc   may emced 109%
1970 and 1973 for devetopino conro.sneoa                                                         otsoeblwo            hv    h    fficial schooao
Poooacln eouthpat (7)     - ca    mpnodacu1 groth rates of mid-               Adjusted enroi=ieo    r-tIbo-senaodsry schol-       mo s.ashoe
year popolsabon for 1950-60, 1960-7i sod1970-73.                                    secondary edocatiom reqairos at leas t foor years of approved prlissry
Pcosto gothrte()               rbc- Coaspoted like groth pate of total                 instruction; proides general, -ontional or teacher train,ing
popoatin; dffeentdefiitins  f orha   areas may affect nospara-             iwutsati-s far popils of 12 tc 17 yeurs of age; cerrespondene
hility of data Among comatries.                                                      nue      r  geoer-lly occluded.
Orhon eceolsaica (%  fi otsi) - Ratio of urban to tonal population,                  Years of arbh-ltoc proided (first and occ-od level) - Total year        of
different defisition   of  rban areas may afferi comparbiliny of data               schooling, at seodaylee, covtionall inot-tuion may be par-
among tountrie-                                                                      tielly or omapleteiy eccioded.
dOnotrrtoa (emet)- Children (0-14 yearo), u;king -age (15-64 year),           Vocational enrollment (7. of -ecodary) - Vonstiosi inoltitctian.
nod  etied  65  ear   ad over) an percetsg-o I   id-yer pepalarion             include te,hairal, iedootrial or other programs which operate
Age demeoIdencIyr t    -   tiao of population mnder iS and 6) ond over to              independently or as deprartoets of --oodnry in-it,tion..
thoseof    ge  15 through 64.                                                      Adult literac. -tco MT    - Litrerar  adu1to (able to read and wcit.) s
Eicnmic d    sulldenlv ratio - Ratio of PoPa1anion coder 13 and 63 and over             percentage of total adult popsiation aged 11 ysr- aed over.
toth  labo iforte in age group ofI15-hi ya,sr.
Fanily esnn-ceir (o              altv      thou) -C_ol.taiv     os_ber of            Hous ino
ae.ptors of birth-control device    coder auspices If national femily            Persn ser uafro)              vrg     ubco      asn      a   omi
pamlynong progrem  o.oe ince.ption,                                                   ocuidcovsronldelngsi                 arb anrc..s;   waiigs mo ade
Panir lsai   - ser i    of ar  Id women) - Pernencgesonriena-caensruaasadonnpdd                                             at.
womn  f  hid-eain  ae   1144yeas       ho.  I bipeh-rocrol dvcs             Oupedoilssw            kut eie wae         dt     cuidcnetos
to all marrid umac    in some age groop.                                             duel1itga is urban and rural areas without inside or outside piped
wete r facilities as p-rcntoge of all onnupied dwell1ings.
fosp1ovasat                                                                          Access to iectritiry(1     faldaln            - Cocoo-ti...l dwellings
Total labor force (thausand) - iconmica'lly active pers ona, Including                 wick elcrct        nlce      qa   oes     ecn      f total dwillitge to
arod forces and -aeplycd hot -coding housewives, otudest, etc..                      orba  end rora1 areas
definitions is cartoo    coutrisa arect comparable.                                Rural dwmlllnn r   -ntcid to elerrtiitty (7,) - Compatod aabove for
Labor force In agicultur i     ) - Ag ric_ltura1 labor forc   (ik farming,rura                 dwalligs only.
forestry, hoo ting sold fishing) so percetgag of total labor forc..
Innooed(      of labor fornel  - Uneployed are usually defined as persos           esnoet
wTho are alble and willin   to take a Job, out of a Job me a given day,             Raioecivrs (ear thou poe) - All typms of raefesfr rdio b-ad-
reIeellc fa o, and see king work for a apeoified miaim,a          period           case  tc gea.r.   po   cpr    thos-sd of pepolation; ecldes
It .nceedig one wek, may not he copr," osne               aneisde,uclIc                      'd ro   ceotocutriv         ad Is years when reg.l:cratio    of
diferen.   eI Iiin     f onnepIyed and sorc      ofdt, e.g., cply                   radio sets wa   in ef_i safrrcect ycrs              a  act bcspra
meet officesttitis,saple survYl, omaPsilcy -oeploymen, inlacrace                     nio- moat cucorrien ah1iuked licensing.
Passenger car    (per thou  poo) - Paeegrcr        mpiootrcr
income distribution l- Perc-tage of private itocm     (bock ic cah sod bird)           setn      estanegtproa             coc1udee anu-onc2      bor"    and
received by rihest 1., richest 20%, pooret 20%, and poorest 4i0, of                  nilitaryseie.
households.                                                Olenrriclrv ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(kwh/yr peprc)-Aas consusprico  ftindu-tria  eon
metricl, public and privte     le"ncr icity In kilowtthoop    per capita,
DatIriOetion of  land -unrai    - PercentaCges of land ownd by usathiest               generally hasad on production data,wiythouttaiwa         for losses is
ltadpret 10% of land oenp.-                                                   grids hut n11iolg for imports end -op-rt    of electricity.
geonprint (kgl/n  par cap) - Pep~ c.piat .s....a  conaaption is k1lograns
gealth end Nutition                                                                     estimated fro   dometic peoduotiow   pins re  ioporta of newsprint.
PoonIistiom pee chvol,ian  - PoPolsion div~ided by neaher of practicing
h,yiisno     uaIfiedl from a adca     ochool at oniv-rairy level.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of pages 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS LI
GROSS NATIONIAL PRODUCT IN 1974                             A1NNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ million        %       1960-65   1965-70    1971   1972   1973   1974
GNP at Market Prices                14,550       100.0        5.5       5.7    6.5     4.3   10.0    5.8
Gross Domestic Investment            3,630        24.9       12.6       1.6    5.9    -3.5    9.4   23.4
Gross National Saving                3,420        23.5       15.0       3.6   13.2    -8.2   49.1  -11.6
Current Account Balance               -210        -1.5         .         .
Exports of Goods, NFS                3,357       23.1        11.0       4.5    5.0     1.5   18.7  -24.1
Imports of Goods, NFS                3,782       27.2         7.3       7.2    5.4     2.7   13.1   20.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974 L1
Value Added                  Labor Force /2          V.A. per worker
US$ million        %            Million      %              US$       X
Agriculture                          4,187        36.0            7.6     53.9              551     67.0
Industry                             3,850       33.1             2.4     17.0            1,604    194.9
Servlces                             3,581       30.8             3.8     27.0              942    114.5
Unallocated                             .           .             0.3      2.1
Total/Average                     11,618      100.0            14.1    100.0              823    100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                       Central Government
(Million)         X of GDP            (Pesos million)         % of GDP
197         197       196 -7             FY74         FY74       FY71-73
Current Receipts                ..          ..        ..              10,370          12.2        9.0
Current Expenditure             ..          ..        ..7,915                          9.3        8.0
Current Surplus                 ..          ..        ..               2,455           2.9        1.0
Capital Expenditures            ..          ..        ..               2,646           3.1        1.4
External Assistance (net)       ..          ..        ..                 186          0.2         0.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES              1965       1969      1970      1971      1972       1973      1974
(Million Pesos Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                5,136      8,959    10,140    11,720    13,243     16,837    19,766
Bank Credit to Public Sector /3        980     3,565      3,479     3,907     4,817      6,820     7,627
Bank Credit to Private Sector        8,223    13,139     15,396    18,010    24,531     26,906    34,326
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP      21.1      27.0      25.0      23.2       23.5      23.5      19.9
General Price Index (1963 - 100)      100.0     111.4     137.7     159.3      175.3     218.4     337.5
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                     2.2       1.3      23.6      15.7       10.0      24.6      54.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector            ..      27.9       -2.4      12.3      22.3       41.6      11.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector           ..        9.0      17.2      17.0      27.0       25.0      27.6
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
Li All current factor cost.
/2 Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated"
consists mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
/3 Covers credits from all important financial institutions.
Not available.
Not applicable.



ANNEX I
Paee 4 of Daees 4
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                             MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-74)
1971    1972    1973     1974                                       US$ million       %
(USS million)
Exports of Goods, NFS              1,432   2,443   3,357        Coconut Products                    403         21.2
Imports of Goods, NFS              1,484   2,008   3,782        Sugar Products                      426         22.4
Resource Gap (deficit = -)           -52    +435    -425        Forest Products                     337          17.7
Mineral Products                    393          20.7
Interest Payments (net)              -92     -53     -55        Fruits & Other Agric. Products      117          6.2
Workers' Remittances                                            Other Manufactures                  224          11.8
Other Factor Payments (net)          -33     -60                  Total                           1,900         100.0
get Transfers                        188     234      271
Balance on Current Account           +11     556    -210
Direct Foreign Investment            -22      77       59     EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1974 /6
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                      390     377     402                                                  US$ million
Amortization                       250     335     339
Subtotal                         140      42      63        Public Debt, including Guaranteed            1,113
Capital Grants                                                  Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                    985
Other Capital (net) L                 15     -43      373       Total Outstanding and Disbursed              2,098
Other Items n.e.i. /2               -106     -38        4
Increase in Reserves (+) /3          +38    +594     289
DEBT SERVICR RATIO FOR 1974 /7
Gross Reserves (end year) /4         735   1,416    1,978                                                     x
Net Reserves (end year) /4            80      753     934
Inter. Reserves (end year) /5        282     876    1,165       Public Debt, including Guaranteed             6.6
Non-Guranteed Private Debt                     8.9
Fuel and Related Materials                                      Total Outstanding and Disbursed               15.5
Imports of Goods, NFS              1,514   2,008   3,782
of which:  Petroleum               147     184      653     IBRD/IDA LENDING, OCTOBER 31, 1976 (US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                   IBRD          IDA
1965-69        1970-71
Outstanding and Disbursed       302.6         25.4
US$ 1.00 = Ps.           3.92           6.43                    Undisbursed                     521.2          6.8
Ps. 1.00 = US$           0.26           0.16                    Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed a23.8          32.2
April 1972-July 1975        Since July 1975
US$ 1.00 = Ps. 6.78         US$ 1.00 = Ps. 7.5
Ps. 1.00 = US$ 0.15         Ps. 1.00 = US$ 0.133
/1 Includes SDRs, short-term private loans, Central Bank liabilities and use of IMF credit.
/2 Errors and omissions.
/3 Includes net commercial bank holdings plus foreign exchange holdings of Central Bank and monetary gold.
This entry is equivalent to the change in international reserves.
/4  Includes Central Bank and commercial bank reserves.
/5 Gross reserves of Central Bank plus net reserves of commercial banks.
/6 Excludes short-term debt and IMF standby credit and is on a disbursement basis.
/7 Ratio of Debt-Service to Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.



ANNEX 1:
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AiD IDA CREDITS
As of December 31, 1976 LI
Loan or
Credit                                                      Amounts (US$ millions)
Number      Year      Borrower         Purpose            Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
Fourteen loans and one credit fully disbursed            196.5     10.0
637-PH     1969    Republic of the
Philippines      Irrigation         34.0               0.8
720-PH     1971                       Rice Processing
"1             and Storage      14.3               7.7
809-PH     1972    National Power
Corporation      Power              22.0               8.4
349-PH     1973    Republic of the
Philippines      Education II               12.7       5.0
891-PH     1973                       Fisheries          11.6               5.7
939-PH     1973                       Ports               6.1               5.1
950-PH     1973                       Highway II         68.0              31.0
472-PH     1974                       Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation                9.5       0.4
984-PH     1974                       Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation        9.5               8.8
998-PH     1974                       DFC-DBP I          50.0              12.3
1010-PH     1974                       Third Rural
Credit           22.0               0.0
1034-PH     1974    National Power
Corporation      Power              61.0              37.9
1035-PH     1974    Republic of the
Philippines      Population         25.0              23.6
1048-PH     1974          "            Shipping           20.0              18.3
1052-PH     1974    Philippine
National Bank    DFC                30.0              24.6
1080-PH     1975    Republic of the    Tarlac
Philippines        Irrigation       17.0              15.9
1102-PH     1975                       Rural
Development      25.0              24.6
1120-PH     1975                       Small and Medium
Industries       30.0              14.3
1154-PH     1976                       Magat
Irrigation       42.0              41.2
1190-PH     1976                       DFC-DBP II         75.0              75.0
1224-T-PH   1976                       Education III      25.0              22.8
1225-PH     1976                       Livestock II       20.5              18.1
1227-PH     1976                       Chico Irrigation   50.0              50.0
1272-T-PH   1976                       Manila Urban       10.0              10.0
1282-PH     1976                       Manila Urban       22.0              22.0
1269-PH     1976                       Second Grain
Processing       11.5              11.5
1270-PH     1976                       Second Fisheries   12.0              12.0
Total                                            910.0    32.2     507.0
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                        92.6       -
Total now outstanding                            817.4    32.2
Amount sold                       13.3
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                 12.6             0.7       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate
adjustments)                                 816.7     32.2
Total undisbursed                                501.7     5.3     507.0
L[ A loan of $95 million for a third highway project was approved by the Executive
Directors on December 23, 1976, and signed on January 12, 1977. The Executive
Directors also approved a loan of $15 million on February 1, 1977 for the
Jalaur Irrigation Project.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of December 31, 1976
Fiscal                                                    Amounts ($ million)
Year                     Company                         Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                              15.0     4.4      19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                      8.0       -      8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                 -     4.0      4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance
Telephone company                         4.5       -       4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing Inc.                  0.8     0.4      1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corporation of
the Philippines                             -     2.2       2.2
1971         Philippine Petroleum Corporation             6.2     1.8      8.0
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                              15.0       -      15.0
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation               1.9     0.3      2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation        1.5       -      1.5
1974         Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.    1.5     0.5      2.0
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation             1.2       -      1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                               7.0        -      7.0
1976         Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                   2.6     0.2      2.8
Total gross commitments                    65.2     13.8     79.0
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or cancelled                      19.1     7.2      26.3
Total commitments now held by IFC          46.1     6.6      52.7
Undisbursed                                 1.9       -       1.9



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Loan No. 637     Upper Pampanga River Irrigation; $34.0 Million Loan of
August 18, 1960; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1969;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
This is the first major irrigation project in the Philippines and
will supply water year-round to nearly all its 84,000 ha command area. The
project's on-farm development scheme is setting a pattern for future irriga-
tion development in the country. Despite some delays caused by the 1972
floods, the dam was commissioned on September 7, 1974 ahead of schedule.
Mlost of the work has been completed and the Loan is expected to be entirely
disbursed by the Closing Date. The Closing Date was postponed to allow dis-
bursement for the foreign exchange costs of the communications system which
is scheduled for completion in April 1977. Project costs have increased 40%
over appraisal estimates, largely as a result of rapid inflation, the
effects of successive devaluations of the peso, and design changes in the
dam (which accounted for nearly half the increase in costs). The increase
in costs is being financed by the Government. However, as a result of the
close coordination established between irrigation and agricultural support
services, the project is expected to reach full development in 7 years after
completion of construction, instead of 13 years which was the appraisal
estimate. Also, nearly 7,000 ha have been added to the project, mostly by.
including lands which were formerly under a private irrigation system.
Finally, there has been a considerable increase in the projected world market
price of rice. As a result the estimated rate of return is now higher than
at appraisal.
Loan No. 720     Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: Hlay 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30. 1977
This project provides long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice and corn processing industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new integrated large capacity rice mills. Due in part
to poor harvests and in part to large cost increases for rice mills, the
demand for subloans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be small
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
and, as explained in the President's Memorandum, dated June 8, 1972 (R72-40),
the Loan Agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to rehabilita-
tion of existing rice milling facilities. The Loan Agreement was further
amended in April 1974 to (a) expand the scope of the project to include corn
in addition to rice, (b) enable local governments and the National Grains
Authority to borrow funds under the project, and (c) streamline procurement
procedures (President's Memorandum SecM74-244 of April 15, 1974).    As a
result of these amendments, the project is now progressing satisfactorily.
However, because of long construction period required for the large subprojects,
full disbursement will be delayed by about two years and the Closing Date may
be postponed to June 30, 1979.
Loan No. 809     Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million
Credit No. 296   Credit of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness
July 1, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance the construction of a second thermal unit of 150 MW at Bataan and
transmission facilities in Luzon. Although there has been some minor delay
due to the late delivery of transformers, the project is proceeding satis-
factorily, and the unit is expected to be comimissioned before the end of
1976. The erection of transmission lines has been somewhat delayed due to
unfavorable weather and poor soil conditions and is now expected to be
completed in April 1977. A tariff increase was approved in October 1976.
However, it was too late for NPC to achieve the expected rate of return of 8%
on its net fixed assets in operation in 1976.
Credit No. 471 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984     $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Although there has been some delay in constructing the two diversion
dams because of the need for more extensive foundations and abutment area
grouting than originally expected, most difficulties have been overcome and
the work is progressing satisfactorily. Diversion of 75% of Aurora water
into Pantabangan Reservoir was achieved in September 1975, one year ahead of
the appraisal schedule. All remaining engineering work on the second division
dam was completed in July 1976, one year ahead of schedule. In the area
served by the project, lack of competition caused some delay in awarding of
contracts, but this has been overcome. Efforts to attract bids from more
local contractors have been very effective. Urgent work is being done by
Government force account. Project costs have increased about 54% over
appraisal estimates, largely as a result of inflation. There would be added
benefits from early diversion, however, resulting in additional water for
irrigation sooner than planned, but the rate of return is expected to fall
from 17% at appraisal to 14%.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No. 998     Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming:
$50.0 Mfillion Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the Loan are being relent to the Development Bank
of the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million)
is being used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project. The Loan is now
virtually fully committed for subloans and disbursements are expected to be
completed before the closing date.
Loan No. 1010     Third Rural Credit; $22.0 Million Loan of June 17, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: August 27, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The Loan was fully committed by December 31, 1975 and disbursements
are expected to be completed long before closing date. Of the 10,800 benefi-
ciaries under the first, second and third project, 1,800 beneficiaries are in
arrears. The Central Bank is taking steps to improve collection and appro-
priate measures will be included in the fourth project, the appraisal report
for which is currently being prepared.
Loan No. 1034     Sixth Power:  $61.0 Mfillion Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (IIPC) to
finance a 100 MW hydro plant at Pantabangan and transmission lines for the
further expansion of the Luzon grid and feasibility studies by consultants
for a future power project. Major equipment for the plant has been con-
tracted and project commissioning is expected early in 1977. The trans-
mission component of the project is behind schedule because necessary
design work has been delayed due to NPC's heavy construction program. It is
now expected that this part of the project will be completed by the end of
1978, i.e. one year behind schedule.
Credit No. 349 Second Education; $12.7 Million Credit of January 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 11, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit provides $12.7 million to finance improvements to
existing middle and higher level agricultural education institutions,
curriculum development, and new technical and vocational institutions



ANNEX II
Page 6
in rural areas. The physical facilities are nearing completion but are
about 11 months behind appraisal schedule due to earlier delays. All
project institutions are expected to be in full use by mid-1977. The
technical assistance program, however, is not expected to be completed
until late 1978. Therefore the postponement of the Closing Date to
December 31, 1978 is being considered.
Loan No. 891     Fisheries; $11.6 Million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5. 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
This project is designed to provide long-term credit to the private
sector through the Development Bank of the Philippines for marine and inland
fisheries development. The demand for subloans has been adequate, and the
organization to implement them has been properly established. The project is
progressing satisfactorily, and all funds were fully committed by July 1976
and are likely to be disbursed by the closing date.
Loan No. 939     Second Ports; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
This project provides for the rehabilitation and expansion of the
ports of General Santos and Cagayan de Oro on the island of Mindanao. The
contract for General Santos was awarded in May 1975 but work has slowed
down due to dredging difficulties. For Cagayan de Oro, after about nine
months' delay, the contract was awarded on March 12, 1976 and work has now
commenced. The civil works were about 15% completed as of October 31, 1976.
Loan No. 950     Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: December 27, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project is helping the Government to implement its program of
construction, improvement and rehabilitation of highways and feeder roads,
by financing the construction, improvement and rehabilitation of 1,400 km of
roads in Luzon. Works were about 70% completed as of September 1, 1976
on 14 contracts, 10 of which were awarded to local contractors. Costs have
increased sharply, but price adjustments are being awarded to contractors by
the Government to offset the sharp rises in costs of basic materials, fuels
and labor. Execution of other minor project items is generally proceeding
on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan llo. 1035   Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project is assisting the Government in expanding rural health
infrastructure, staff training facilities, and research and communications
capacity. Under the direction of Project Management Staff in the Department
of Health, overall project implementation is progressing well. Training
activities are well ahead of schedule in all 12 regions; the civil works
component lags by 9 months, but is projected to be completed ahead of the
appraisal report timetable due to simplification of construction design.
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1048    Interisland Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Government is relending the proceeds of the Loan to the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for onlending to beneficiaries
for the acquisition of new and used ships and for major repairs and con-
versions. Progress under the project is satisfactory. Commitments were
originally slow, because of lack of demand from the private sector and
DBP's restrictive collateral requirements. These problems are now being
resolved and subloan commitments are expected to increase during the coming
months.
Loan No. 1052    Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project assists in the financing of industrial subprojects,
the bulk of which are expected to go to export-oriented manufacturing
projects. As of October 31, 1976, commitments for subloans totalling
$12.5 million had been made. While subloan commitments have been some-
what slower than originally expected due to the generally slow pace of
business activity, the implementation of the project is satisfactory.
Loan N4o. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 34,000 ha of land in Central Luzon. The project is progress-
ing satisfactorily with exceptionally good interest in the bidding for
civil works contracts. Procurement of equipment was originally slow, but
this problem ha's now been overcome.



ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No. 1102   Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to carry out a rural
development project on the island of Mindoro, which includes infrastructure
and irrigation improvements, and ecological and health improvement measures.
Progress is satisfactory on irrigation and roads, which are being implemented
by agencies having experience with Bank-funded projects. With the exception
of the Mangyan Assistance Program, however, there has been little progress
under the other programs. This was caused mainly by the lack of funds due to
inadequate budgeting for the current 18-month fiscal year while the Government
changes to a calendar year financial system. Adequate financing to carry on
scheduled work for all project components, however, is expected for next year.
Loan No. 1120    Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5. 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The DBP portion of the funds has been fully committed. After a
slow start, commitment of funds under the Industrial Guarantee Loan Fund and
National Electrification Administration is now proceeding well. Overall
progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1154    Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha of land in the Cagayan Valley, Northern Luzon.
Consultant's work on the engineering and economic evaluation studies is
making good progress. The water management training is underway and a
start has been made on civil works.
Loan No. 1190    Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of
January 28, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: llarch 31, 1980
The proceeds of the Loan are being relent to the Development
Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for subloans to finance direct imports for
medium and relatively large industrial projects. Commitment of funds
is much slower than expected. As of October 31, 1976, only $1.8 million
against the estimated $17 million was committed. This is due to a slowdown
of investment in the industrial sector as a whole over the past twelve
months. Government has made a proposal to reallocate about $25 million
of the funds for small and medium industries. The proposal is under
consideration.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No. 1224    Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers the first phase (1976-80) of the Government's
eight-year textbook program and provides for the development, production
and distribution of 27 million textbooks. It also provides for curriculum
development, teacher training and technical assistance. Initial progress
under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1225    Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The Loan became effective on September 13, 1976, and initial progress
is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1227    Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8. 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project will assist the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 19,700 ha in the Cagayan Valley. The Loan became effective on
July 19, 1976, and initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1269    Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Mlillion Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in modernizing and expanding the Philippines
grain processing industry. The Loan became effective on November 12, 1976,
and initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1270    Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in increasing fish production for domestic con-
sumption. The Loan became effective on November 12, 1976 and initial progress
under the project is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No. 1272T  Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282    $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 10, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The loan will finance (a) improvements in basic sanitary services for
families living in the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat Dagatan area, and (b) improve-
ments in transportation and traffic in the Greater Manila Area. The project
was declared effective on December 9, 1976.
Tendering is underway for construction of 1,500 of 2,000 serviced
lots at Dagat Dagatan, secondary water mains for Tondo, and the interceptor
sewer for Tondo. A memorandum dated December 16, 1976 (SecM76-849) was
circulated to the Executive Directors reviewing issues raised during the Bank/
Fund Annual Meeting.
Loan No. 1353   Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of
January 12, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet
Effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project will assist the Government in improving the national
and rural road systems and their maintenance. The loan has not yet become
effective.
Loan No. 1367    Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This loan will assist the Government in rehabilitating about
22,000 ha of existing irrigation schemes and constructing new irrigation and
drainage facilities for about 2,900 ha of rice land on the island of Panay.
The loan was signed on February 14, 1977 and is not yet effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              The Republic of the Philippines
Amount:                $25 million equivalent
Terms:                 The Bank loan would be for a term of 20 years
including a grace period of 4-1/2 years, with
interest at 8.5% per annum.
Project Description:   The project consists of the construction of
buildings and the provision of equipment and tech-
nical assistance for the following institutions:
(a) University of the Philippines at Los Banos
(UPLB):
(i) College of Forestry;
(ii) Department of Animal Science;
(iii) College of Veterinary Medicine;
(b) Visayas State College of Agriculture (VISCA);
(c) Philippine Training Centers for Rural Develop-
ment:
(i) National Training Center;
(ii) Five Regional Training Centers;
(iii) Six Farmer Training Centers;
The project also includes fellowships to improve the
staff quality of other institutions at the UPLB, technical
and management capabilities of the staff of the Education
Development Projects Implementing Task Force (EDPITAF),
the Technical Panel for Agricultural Education in the
Department of Education and Culture, and the Secretariat
of the National Government Board in the Department of
Agriculture.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Estimated Cost:                              Local    Foreign    Total
-- $ Million ------
1.  Civil Works                     11.7       5.6       17.3
2.  Furniture                        0.7       0.4        1.1
3.  Equipment                        0.9       8.0        8.9
4.  Professional Services            1.0       0.2        1.2
5. Technical Assistance
a)  Fellowships               0.2       3.9        4.1
b)  Specialist Services       0.1       0.8        0.9
Total Base Costs             14.6      18.9       33.5
6. Contingencies
a)  Physical                  1.0       1.2        2.2
b)  Price                     4.7       4.9        9.6
Total                        20.3      25.0       45.3
Total net of taxes                                42.0
Financing:                                 Government    Bank     Total
-------- $ Million -------
20.3     25.0        45.3
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD
Fiscal Year       Annual      Cumulative
----------- $ Million -----------
1977          0.4         0.4
1978          2.2         2.6
1979         12.5        15.1
1980          7.3        22.4
1981          2.2        24.6
1982          0.4        25.0
Procurement:   Civil works contracts over $700,000 each and equipment and
furniture contracts over $50,000 each would be awarded after
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guide-
lines. Local manufacturers would be allowed a margin of prefer-
ence of 15% or the actual customs duties, whichever is lower.
Contracts below these amounts (the aggregate value of such con-
tracts is expected to be $5.5 million in the case of civil works
and $2 million in the case of equipment and furniture) would be
awarded after competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with Government procurement procedures which are acceptable to
the Bank. Foreign bidders would be allowed to participate.
Furniture for VISCA, estimated to cost $200,000, would



ANNEX III
Page 3
be produced by the College's own maintenance and production
workshop, which at present produces inexpensive furniture of
acceptable quality. Miscellaneous items, in contracts not
exceeding $10,000 equivalent, subject to an aggregate total of
$250,000, could be purchased on the basis of acceptable local
procedures including the solicitation of at least three quotations.
Books, amounting to $300,000, would be procured directly from
authorized distributors after negotiations for bulk purchase.
Technical Assistance:
The project includes financing for 338 man-years of fellowships
abroad for training the staff of project institutions as well
as 15 man-years of specialist services to assist in curriculum
development for UPCVMI and VISCA, feasibility studies for future
education projects and studies on industrial policy. The cost of
fellowships is estimated at about $15,000 per annum for study
tour, $12,000 per annum for PhD fellowships and $10,000 for the
Masters' program; the cost of specialist services is estimated
at about $55,000 per annum.
Staff Project Report: No. 1207c-PH, dated February 10, 1977
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department



ANINEX IV
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the project:
April 1974 - January 1976.
(b) Project identified and prepared by the Government/UNESCO:
April 1974.
(c) Discussions with the Government on project preparation:
December 1974.
(d) Further preparation of the project by the Government/UNESCO mission:
April 1975.
(e) First Bank mission to consider the project: June 1975.
(f) Departure of Appraisal Mission: January 23, 1976.
Departure of Follow-up Appraisal Mission: October 25, 1976.
(g) Completion of negotiations: January 19, 1977.
(h) Planned date of effectiveness: May 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 2
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
(a)  The Bank and the Philippine Government have agreed on an
implementation timetable to ensure effective project
implementation.
(b)  A Bank mission would visit Manila in April, 1977 to review
progress in the initial stages of project implementation.
(c)  In particular, Bank staff will need to review during the coming
months:
(i) progress made in the staffing of the Technical Panel on
Agricultural Education within the Department of Education
and Culture;
(ii) sketch plan preparation for the University of the Philippines
College of Veterinary Medicine/Department of Animal Science
complex at Los Banos;
(iii)  progress made in finalizing equipment lists;
(iv) progress made in the selection of fellowship candidates and
recruitment of project specialists.



ANNEX IV
Page 3
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  The Technical Panel for Agricultural Education in the Department of
Education and Culture would be maintained with terms of reference
and representation acceptable to the Bank; appointment of staff to
the Secretariat of the Technical Panel would be completed within one
year after signing of the proposed loan (paragraph 26 of this Report).
(b)  The University of the Philippines at Los Banos and the Visayas State
College of Agriculture (VISCA) would train the agreed number of staff
for PhD and Masters degrees at local institutions with locally
provided funds during project implementation (paragraphs 35 and 36).
(c)  The VISCA would (i) await approval from the Technical Panel on
Agricultural Education before adding new fields or expanding enrollment
beyond 1,500 before 1981, and (ii) send to the Bank for comment its
annual development plan each year during project implementation
(paragraph 36).
(d)  The National Governing Board would send to the Bank for comments on
its annual operational plan for the Philippine Centers for Rural
Development (paragraph 38).
(e)  During the project implementation period, and up to 1986, selected
project monitoring indicators would be sent to the Bank and within
three months of the Closing Date of the Loan Agreement, Government
would send to the Bank a report providing its preliminary assessment
of the project (paragraph 43).



IBRD 1261
12'0                                            1240                                     JANUARY 1977
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                                                                      PHILPPINES
I lloo Norne        37 Aklan                                                       FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
-200    2 Ab,r               38 Cop,o                                                                                                            20-
3 DPiJ Sur           39 Antique                               8                                  *       NATIONAL TRAINING CENTER
4  Mo-na.in          40  1111
5 L. Union           41 Negro- Ooid.nntl                                                                REGIONAL TRAINING CENTERS
6 Beng.et            42 Cabh
7 Pango-nan          43 Negro, Orinsl                           Oi_                                     FARMERS TRAINING CENTERS
8 Bane"              44 Bohol0*                                                                          COLLEGE OF FORESTRY, UPLB
9 Cagay-n            45 Siquijor                        "                                                COLLEGE OF VETERINARY MEDICINE. UPLB
10 Keling.-Apayao    46 Nothtnn Sanor                     _ 1:9
11 Isabela           47 Emarr                            Babeuyan Channel                                DEPARTMENT OF ANIMAL SCIENCE AND
12 Itfug4            48 EaaO-rn San-.,                                                            0       ANIMAL DISEASES DIAGNOSTIC
13 Nuaa Vizc4y       49 Leyte                     )_                                                      LABORATORY, UPLB
14 QoIr,no            50 Soothwr Leyte        Loa.0.O1     ,     1
15 Nuav EcJ          501 ZSoboaarg d.1 Norte               /                                      A      VISAYAS STATE COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE
15 Nueva Eclja   Sl Zamboanga del None   1 .  I   Z                           ~~~~~~~~~BAY BAY. LAYTE
16 Tarlac            52 Zamboange del Su,                                                                 BAY BAY LA
17 Za-bala.          53 Basilan                (\2       1   O   g-                               -_ _   PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
78 Pamparga n4 Sul. a                            ( '         I                                           REGIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARIES
19 Busce.            SS Trwit w                 im_\
20 Batan             56 SSurigo del Nore) 3 1          4        0aOan
21 Quezon             57 Ca,rlgoin ,12                     - i
22 Rlrsl              SE ABu.an del None San F-rnand,  ' 6  -
23 Cult$              59 MisanI Oriental  Bo   1 -/i6 )-   '     \  _ 
-1B0   24 Laguna             60 Miss-a Occ,dentl  0t  i-K    13   14                                       15 1,  0   2iX   2b   3              162-
25 Bnatnps            61 Lanao del None      Doo             i/                                         KILOMETERS
26 Mar-nduqoe         62 Lanao del Sur   O    7nJo                                          O10                              20
21 Mindoro Orl-ntal  63 Bukidnon                            1L                                             MILES
29 Mrd0.. OidCUl      b4 Aguun dnT Sur        h6   t OCab ta.                                   7he boundaries thorn on this nmap do not
29 Romblon            65 S,rlBao del Sur   17                                                   h -  n  bnply endorsement or ceptaswe by the
30 Palawan           00 Magludan-o           AngIa.o  g                                         WorldBe,,kend strafin/tei
31 Cmarlnos Norte     67 North Cotb.to  O       1t 8   19
32 Carar-ne. Sur     68   aoo DOlo2                         21
33 C.Wadu.nr"         69 D4vao 0rlent41i20\IV                 >                           PHfIi/ZI/P PI/NE        S     A
34 Albay              70 Da-o del Sur                                  0
35 Sonogon            71 Sultmn Kodarat       I    22
36 Maabate            72 Sooth Cotobhto                                  31 0 lDt      P.,id.n
/  > \\4rostu~~~N_ 1N               Naoa       Vines
N N  27              N ~~~~~~~~034 OL~3 3i
SOU           C. ll F;/1AN 28 I                                         S S lI1'A  S14 'V
120                                                   N '      I M          2        .     '        Aln4                                        120
/ ~           ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ro. A,4V7 >E            tAasva           460
(7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/       0                 /           i f        rt   \<b Jg    )    i-i  mnGsOG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ts ui..n
'0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  ~   ~  ~~~~~            E
B0390         /                                         / ';                                                                            8
IN  50  I A /0              __IWAN
'_________________________________r_____        ts071240
~~~~~ o \ / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(701 FIJES               .SkAc
',J'  t) ;?<   '4    1213                                           ~~~~~~                                   ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~121 2-



