CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1374 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Fourth Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 25, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 25, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF THE PHIL-
IPPINES (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the term "Project Unit" means the Project Unit established by the
Borrower pursuant to the provisions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement (Second Education Project), between the Borrower
and the Bank dated January 5, 1973.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)


﻿per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreef at.


﻿-5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through
the Project Unit with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, technical and educa-
tional practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to maintain and improve the quality
of agricultural education in the Philippines, the Borrower shall
maintain until December 31, 1986, or such other date as the Bank
may agree, the Technical Panel for Agricultural Education in its
Department of Education and Culture with such powers, responsibili-
ties and composition as shall be acceptable to the Bank and such
Panel shall be assisted by an adequately staffed Secretariat.
(b) The Borrower shall, by March 31, 1978, appoint an
Executive Secretary and at least four experts, one each from the
fields of animal science, including veterinary medicine, crop
science, fishing, and forestry in the Secretariat to be established
pursuant to paragraph (a) above, and all such appointments shall be
of suitably qualified and experienced personnel.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in: (i)
the preparation of the master plan for the Visayas State College
of Agriculture; and (ii) the preparation of designs, and super-
vision of construction, of the facilities included in Part A of
the Project except the facilities of the Philippines Training


﻿-6-
Centers for Rural Development, the Borrower shall employ consul-
tant master planners and architects whose qualifications, expe-
rience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ specialists whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, in
accordance with the list set forth in the Annex to Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall, prior to December 31,
1981 neither expand the enrollment beyond 1,500 students nor
expand the teaching program to new fields at Visayas State College
of Agriculture without the prior approval of the Technical Panel
for Agricultural Education.
(b) During the implementation of the Project, Vie Borrower
shall, not later than September 30 in each year, furnish to the
Bank for its comments the annual development plan of Visayas State
College of Agriculture.
(c) The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 1981,
or such other date as the Bank shall agree, cause to be trained in
the Philippines about 70 teachers of the University of the
Philippines at Los Baios in Ph.D. programs and about 150 such
teachers in M.S. degrees, and about 25 teachers of Visayas State
College of Agriculture in Ph.D. programs in the Philippines and
about 70 such staff in M.S. programs.


﻿-7-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall award the fellowships included
in Part B of the Project in accordance with selection criteria and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request


﻿-8-
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall establish a monitoring
and evaluation system for the institutions included in Part A of
the Project and shall furnish to the Bank not later than Septem-
ber 30, in each year reports consisting of summary analyses of
monitoring indicators selected in agreement with the Bank for
such institutions covering calendar years 1977 to 1986.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, not later than
three months after the Closing Date, or such other date as the
Bank shall agree, the Borrower's preliminary assessment of the
Project including the experience gained in its implementation.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for the construction and operation of the facilities included
in the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall maintain the National
Governing Board in its Department of Agriculture with responsibility
for policy and program formulation for the National and Regional
Training Centers and the Farmer Training Centers, until the
Closing Date.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank not later than
September 30 in each year, until the Closing Date, annual
operational plans for the National and Regional Training Centers
and Farmer Training Centers included in the Project, for the
Bank's comments.


﻿- 9 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank; and (ii) undertakes that,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall
be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost
to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not
apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase price of
such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date As used in this Section, the term "govern-
mental assets" means assets of the Borrower or of any agency of
the Borrower including the Central Bank of the Philippines or any
institution performing the functions of a central bank for the
Borrower.


﻿- 10 -
(d) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits
of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the fore-
going undertaking effective with resnect to liens on the assets
of its political subdivisions and their agencies, and to the extent
that the Borrower is unable within the limits of the laws in force
in its territories to make this undertaking effective, the Borrower
will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank.
Sectioi 4.02. The Borrower shall miintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carry-
ing out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause each entity and insti-
tution included in the Project to carry its operations and manage
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
technical and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date May 24, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila, Philippines
Cable address:
SECFINANCE
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By Is/ Mario C. Belisario
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) (a) Civil works            6,000,000          33%
and furniture
(b) Related pro-            600,000          50%
fessional
services
(2) Equipment                  8,000,000
and materials
(a) directly im-                             100% of foreign
ported                                  expenditures
(b) locally manu-                            100% of local
factured                                expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) imported but                             65%
locally pro-
cured
(3) Technical assistance       5,000,000          100%
and fellowships
(4) Unallocated                5,400,000
TOTAL     25,000,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that:
(a) withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $150,000, may be made in respect of Category (1) (b)
on account of payments made for such expenditures for consultant-
architects' services before that date but after May 1, 1976; and


﻿- 16 -
(b) withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $300,000 may be made in respect of Category (3) on
account of payments made for such expenditures for fellowships be-
fore that date but after September 1, 1976.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an &mount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is designed to increase qualified manpower
to implement the Borrower's crop, forestry and livestock development
programs, consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Civil works, procurement of equipment and furniture and
utilization of technical assistance required to bring the
enrollment of the following institutions to the level
set forth hereunder:
Present       1981
Institution                        Enrollment Enrollment
University of the Philippines
at Los Baios
(i) College of Forestry          415         890
(ii) Department of Animal
Science:
Degree Program          200         390
Technician Program            0         220
(iii) College of Veterinary
Medicine                  260         oo
Visayas State College of Agriculture  950       1,500
Philippines Training Centers for
Rural Development
(i) One National Center            0         200*
(ii) Five Regional Centers          0       3,600*
(iii) Six Farmer Training Centers    0       9,000
*    Multiple short courses.


﻿- 18 -
Part B:   Utilization of technical assistance and provision of
fellowships to:
(i) upgrade the staff of the University of the
Philippines at Los Baios and of the
Visayas State College of Agriculture;
(ii) strengthen the management capacity of the
Technical Panel for Agricultural Education,
the Rural Development Division of the Project
Unit, the Regional Training Centers and the
Farmer Training Centers;
(iii) assist the College of Veterinary Medicine
of the University of the Philippines at Los
Baros and the Visayas State College of
Agriculture in curriculum development; and
(iv) carry out feasibility studies for future
projects by the Project Unit; and
(v) assist the Philippine Center for Economic
Development in conducting industrial policy
studies.
The said technical assistance and fellowships shall
be provided in accordance with the Program set forth
in the Annex to this Schedule, as such Annex may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1981.


﻿- 19 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Technical Assistance and Fellowship Program
Technical Assistance     Fellowships
Institution                      (man-years)           (man-years)
University of the Philippines
at Los Baflos:
(i) College of Forestry                                     34
(ii) Department of Animal
Science                       -                   24
(iii) College of Veterinary
Medicine                      4.5                 41
(iv) Other colleges and
institutions                  -                  142
Visayas State College of
Agriculture                             4                   85
Rural Training Centers and
Farmer Training Centers                 -                    3
Project Management Support and               4.5                  9
studies
Industrial Policy Studies                    2                  -
TOTAL              15                  338


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning May 1, 1982
through   November 1, 1996                   805,000
On May 1, 1997                                    850,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                         1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                         2.55%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                         4.65%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                   6.80%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                   7.65%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                         8.50%


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B and D hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods and for civil works shall be procured in accord-
ance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   (a) Before bids for furniture or equipment are invited for
Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
its comments a master list of the furniture and equipment required
for carrying out such Part of the Project, indicating the specifi-
cations and the estimated unit and total price of the items to be
procured, and shall make such modifications in said master lists
as the Bank shall reasonably request. Said items shall be indexed,
coded and numbered for identification with respect to the Project
institutions and locations for which they are to be used. To the
extent practicable, identical or similar items of furniture and
equipment shall be grouped in lots estimated to cost the equivalent
of $50,000 or more so as to permit bulk procurement in accordance
with appropriate technical and procurement practices.


﻿- 23 -
(b) Modifications of the master lists of furniture and equip-
ment prepared in accordance with the foregoing paragraph shall be
submitted to the Bank for its concurrence, except for such modifi-
cations which do not exceed the equivalent of $1,000 for any one
item or, in the aggregate, 10% of the total proceeds of the Loan
then allocated for furniture and equipment.
3.   Contracts for civil works at each Project location shall be
grouped in a manner consistent with economy and efficiency.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of less than $700,000, and contracts for equipment and furniture
expected to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 may be let
after locally advertised competitive bidding in accordance with
the Borrower's procedures.
2.   Contracts for miscellaneous items estimated to cost the equi-
valent of $10,000 or less may be awarded without recourse to inter-
national competitive bidding, provided that: (i) such items shall
be procured on the basis of reasonable and competitive procurement
procedures, including but not limited to, the solicitation of not
less than three price quotations; and (ii) the aggregate amount of
all contracts to be so awarded shall not exceed the equivalent of
$250,000.
3.   Contracts for books may be procured from distributors after
negotiations for bulk purchases.


﻿- 24 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   Far the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Philippines may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Philippines if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank


﻿- 25 -
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in the Philippines equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Philippines.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 26 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
Furniture for the Visayas State College of Agriculture may
be obtained through force account from the said College's own
workshop, provided that the cost of furniture so obtained shall
not exceed the equivalent of $200,000.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and to all contracts for
furniture and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
,the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿- 27 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the in-
tended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


