Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 4428
-
CE 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for North-East Housing Reconstruction Project) 
 
between 
 
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated September 16, 2008 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
Page  3
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated September 16, 2008, entered into between DEMOCRATIC 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing 
additional financing for the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; 
DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
twenty six million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 26,200,000) (variously, 
“Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
Page  4
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Secretary, Ministry of Finance and 
Planning. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Planning 
The Secretariat 
Colombo 1, Sri Lanka 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
SECMINFIN   
FINMIN 21409 
 
94 11 2449823 
 
94
11
2447633
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Page  5
-
3
-
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 
AGREED at Colombo, Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, as of 
the day and year first above written. 
 
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 
 
By 
/s/ Punchi Bandara Jayasundera 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Naoko Ishii 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1  
Project Description 
The objective of the Project is to assist conflict-affected communities in the 
Recipient
’s Northern Province and Eastern Province with housing improvement and 
reconstruction. 
The Project consists of the following activities under Original Project, subject to 
such modifications thereof as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives: 
Part A
:
Housing Assistance
Financing a phased program of housing reconstruction and repair for 
conflict-affected communities. 
Part B
:
Housing Technical Support and Monitoring
Strengthening institutional and administrative capacity to manage large-
scale housing repair and reconstruction.  Activities will include the 
following: 
1. 
Supporting multi-disciplinary, mobile land-task-forces for each district to 
assist in the resolution of land disputes. 
2. 
Undertaking skills-training for workers, such as masons and carpenters, 
who are involved in housing-construction activities. 
3. 
Technical assistance for project implementation. 
Part C
:
Program Management
Strengthening the North-East Housing Reconstruction Unit to implement 
and manage this Project and subsequent housing initiatives in the area. 
1. 
Support for the North-East Housing Reconstruction Unit to cover staff 
costs, incremental operating costs, and goods. 
2. 
Support for administrative costs of the district program units to be 
established across the Northern Province and Eastern Province. 
Page  7
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 2   
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
A. Institutional 
Arrangements 
1. 
The Recipient shall:  
(a) 
throughout the period of Project implementation, maintain the North-
East Housing Reconstruction Unit with adequate staff, power, functions, 
and resources to implement this Project in a satisfactory manner; 
(b) 
appoint and retain throughout the period of Project implementation, in 
accordance with terms of reference, qualifications, and experience 
satisfactory to the Association a full-time Project director and regular 
staff (including technical and financial management specialists) for the 
North-East Housing Reconstruction Unit; and  
(c) 
cause the internal audit unit of the North-East Housing Reconstruction 
Unit to assist the Chief Internal Auditor, all departments and entities 
including without limitation, the North-East Housing Reconstruction 
Unit, district project offices, and Community-Based Organizations in 
carrying out Project implementation from time to time, to ensure 
compliance with financial procedures, technical norms, and standards 
agreed with the Association regarding financial management and 
technical audits of the Project. 
B. 
Appraisal, Evaluation, and Implementation of Reconstruction and Repair 
Activities 
1. 
The Recipient shall at all times, implement the Project in accordance with the 
Operational Manual, the Financial Manual, the Social Safeguards Framework, 
and the Environmental Management Framework; and, except as the Association 
may otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend or waive any provision of 
these manuals or the frameworks, if the Association believes that such 
amendment or waiver may adversely affect implementation of the Project or the 
achievement of its objectives. 
2. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(a) 
prepare and implement Environmental Management Plans in accordance 
with the Environmental Management Framework for all construction 
works supported under Part A of the Project; 
Page  8
-
6
-
(b) 
ensure that all housing reconstruction and repair activities to be 
undertaken under Part A of the Project are identified, selected, and 
appraised in accordance with the criteria and procedure specified in the 
Operational Manual, the Environmental Management Framework, and 
the Social Safeguards Framework; and 
(c) 
ensure that all housing reconstruction and repair activities to be financed 
under the Project are fully consistent with environmental and social 
criteria set out in the Operational Manual, the Environmental 
Management Framework, and the Social Safeguards Framework. 
C. 
Terms and Conditions of Sub-Grants 
The Recipient shall ensure that payments made for Sub-grants are made in 
accordance with appropriate legal documents, which are in form and substance 
acceptable to the Association. The legal documents governing Sub-grants shall 
contain the following provisions: 
(a) 
payments will be used exclusively to finance housing reconstruction or 
repair activities in accordance with terms and conditions set forth in the 
Operational Manual; 
(b) 
goods, works and services to be financed by the payments must be 
consistent with any procedures specified in the Operational Manual; 
(c) 
goods, works, and services will be used exclusively for carrying out the 
identified and agreed housing reconstruction and repair activities; 
(d) 
expenditures reimbursed through these payments must be exclusive of 
taxes, levies, fees, or other surcharges by any, non-government, local 
entity, cadre, or other organization; 
(e) 
the right of the Association, or an entity designated by the Association, to 
inspect, by itself, or jointly with the  Recipient, the goods, work sites, 
and construction activities, any relevant records and documents 
associated with these activities; 
(f) 
the right of the Association to obtain all information as the  Recipient or 
the Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, 
operations, and financial condition of a contractor, Community-Based 
Organization, or any other entity undertaking housing reconstruction and 
repair activities; and  
(g) 
the right of the Recipient (or an entity or individual designated by it to 
manage or oversee this Project) to suspend or terminate the right of a 
beneficiary (including a village community) to use the Sub-grant if the 
Page  9
-
7
-
beneficiary fails to perform its obligations under the applicable legal 
documents. 
D. 
Safeguards and Land Mines 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that no Project activities are carried out in high 
security areas or areas containing a significant risk of land mines without 
receiving appropriate and necessary clearances from designated authorities in its 
Ministry of Defense.  In particular, the Recipient shall ensure that no activities to 
be financed under the Project shall commence without appropriate clearances 
concerning the status of land mines in the areas where these activities are to be 
undertaken. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project shall not involve any involuntary land 
acquisition. All land requirements for implementing the Project shall be met in 
accordance with the applicable provisions of the Social Safeguards Framework. 
E. Anti-Corruption 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation  
A. Project 
Reports 
The Recipient shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with agreed indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about October 31, 2009, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and 
(c) 
review with the Association, by December 31, 2009, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) 
of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
Page  10
-
8
-
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Association’s views on the matter. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report not later than 
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement 
A. General 
1.
 Goods
.
All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth 
or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions 
of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services
.
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 below, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
Page  11
-
9
-
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods
.
The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International and National Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods. The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method 
(a)  
National Competitive Bidding* 
(b)  
Shopping 
(c)  
Direct Contracting  
(d)  
Community Based procurement** 
*In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the 
provision of the Procurement Guidelines, the procurement of goods and works through 
National Competitive Bidding shall be subject to the following requirements: 
(i) 
only the Recipient’s specific model bidding documents for national 
competitive bidding, as agreed with the Association (and as amended from 
time to time in agreement with the Association) shall be used for bidding for 
the procurement of goods under National Competitive Bidding; 
(ii) 
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one national newspaper with a 
wide circulation, at least twenty one (21) days prior to the deadline for the 
submission of bids; 
(iii) 
bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 
are willing to pay the required fee; 
(iv) 
there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of the bids, 
which shall be either through post or hand delivered; electronic 
submissions shall not be permitted. 
(v) 
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of any 
kind shall be given to national bidders (including state-owned enterprises or 
small-scale enterprises) in the bidding process; no special preferences should 
be accorded to any enterprises or bodies; 
(vi) 
qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding documents and, if a 
registration process is required, a foreign firm declared as the lowest 
evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable time for  registering, without let 
or hindrance; 
Page  12
-
10 - 
(vii) 
bids shall be opened in public in one location, immediately after the deadline 
for the submission of bids, as stipulated in the bidding documents.  The 
bidding documents should indicate the date, time and place of bid opening; 
(viii) 
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria disclosed in 
the bidding documents, in a format and within a specified period agreed with 
the Association, and within the bid validity period indicated in the bidding 
documents; 
(ix) 
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official 
estimate, without the prior concurrence of the Association; 
(x) 
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders; 
(xi) 
except with the prior concurrence of the Association, there shall be no 
negotiation of price with the bidders, even with the lowest evaluated bidder;  
(xii) 
re-invitation of bids shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence of 
the Association;  
(xiii) 
all bidders/contractors shall provide a bid/performance security as required in 
the bidding/contract documents; 
(xiv) a 
bidder
’s bid security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a contractor’s 
performance security shall apply only to the specific contract under which it 
was furnished; 
(xv) 
bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount over 
the estimated cost, unless agreed with the Association; and 
(xvi) unless 
justified 
by 
force majeure
 and/or exceptional situations beyond the 
control of the Recipient, extension of bid validity shall not be allowed 
without the prior concurrence of the Association, for: (a) the first request for 
extension if it is longer than four weeks; and (b) all subsequent requests for 
extension irrespective of the period. 
**To be procured only after clearance from the Association for the specific goods 
to be procured following these procedures. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
Page  13
-
11 - 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  
Quality Based Selection
 
(b)  
Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c)  
Least Cost Selection  
(d)  
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e)  
Single Source Selection  
(f)  
Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing 
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance 
with the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, 
and such additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Recipient (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for 
Projects” dated 
 
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions). 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that 
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the 
allocations of the amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the 
Page  14
-
12 - 
percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in 
each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (expressed in 
SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(1)  Sub-grants under Part A of 
the Project 
24,490,000 100% 
(2)  Goods 
180,000 
100% 
(3)  Consultants services 
1,400,000 
100% 
(4)  Training 
130,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
26,200,000  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
Page  15
-
13 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the 
Credit repayable 
(expressed as a 
percentage)* 
On each January 15 and July 15, commencing July 15, 
2018, to and including January 15, 2028 
 
5% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  16
-
14 - 
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 
2
to this Agreement. 
3. 
“Community-Based Organization” means a rural community-based 
organization, association, society, village rehabilitation committee or user group 
that satisfies the eligibility criteria in the Operational Manual. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 
and revised in October 2006. 
5. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means an action plan, prepared pursuant 
to the Environmental Management Framework whose substance shall be 
acceptable to the Association, for the mitigation of potential adverse 
environmental impact caused by activities supported under the Project, as the 
same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Association. 
6. 
“Environmental Management Framework” means the Environmental 
Assessment and Management Framework dated June 11, 2004, satisfactory and 
acceptable to the Association (including any amendments thereto approved by 
the Association) that contains, among other things, institutional and technical 
guidelines: (i) to reduce any adverse environmental and forest impacts under the 
Project; and (ii) for preparing village-specific environmental impact assessments. 
7. 
“Financial Manual” means the Financial Management Manual, which forms 
part of the Operational Manual, containing policies and procedures for the 
Project’s financial management that are satisfactory and acceptable to the 
Association. 
8. 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Schedule 2, Section II, Paragraph B.2 of this Agreement. 
9. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing on January 1 
and ending on the following December 31. 
Page  17
-
15 - 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
11. 
“Ministry of Nation Building and Estate Infrastructure” means the 
Recipient’s ministry in charge of reconstruction and any successor thereto. 
12. 
“North-East Housing Reconstruction Unit” means the unit maintained under 
the Ministry of Nation Building and Estate Infrastructure, or such other entity 
satisfactory and acceptable to the Association that will coordinate and carry out 
Project implementation. 
13. 
“Operational Manual” means the Project Operation Manual (including any 
amendments made from time to time), satisfactory and acceptable to the 
Association, setting forth various operational, financial management, and 
procurement procedures governing the operation of the Project. 
14. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement 
for the North-East Housing Reconstruction Project between the Recipient and the 
Association, dated February 15, 2005, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
15. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
16. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, and revised in 
October, 2006. 
17. 
“Procurement Plan” means the procurement plan for the Project, dated  
April 1, 2008, covering the initial eighteen-month period of the Project 
implementation, as the same may be updated from time to time in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 3.03 of the original Financing Agreement. 
18. 
“Social Safeguards Framework” means the Social Safeguards and Risk 
Monitoring Management Framework for the Project that sets out, among other 
things: (i) measures to monitor activities for significant social impacts, and, if 
necessary, to assist in mitigation of such impacts; (ii) procedures to ensure that 
these measures are appropriately applied; (iii) capacity-building and monitoring 
arrangements; and (iv) guidelines to prepare a Resettlement Action Plan, if the 
need arises. 
19. 
“Sub-Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made, to a beneficiary to 
finance goods, works and consultants’ services for housing reconstruction.
 
