                                        Documentof
                                   The World Bank

                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                    ReportNo: 42879-LK




              INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                                   PROJECTPAPER

                                          FORA

                PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCINGCREDIT

                    INTHE AMOUNT OFSDR26.2 MILLION
                         (US$43 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

           DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLICOF S R I LANKA

                                        FORTHE

           NORTHEASTHOUSINGRECONSTRUCTIONPROGRAM



                                       May 5,2008




SustainableDevelopmentUnit
SouthAsia RegionalOffice


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
         (Exchange Rate Effective March 31,2008)


             Currency Unit = Sri LankanRupee
        107.4 Rupees (Rs.) = US$1
                 US$ 1.64 = SDR 1


                     FISCAL YEAR
                 January 1  -   December 3 1



          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CSIA                  Continuous Social Impact Assessment
EIQ                   Environmental Information Questionnaire
GAC                   Governance and Anti Corruption
IDA                   InternationalDevelopment Association
NB&EID                Nation Building& Estate Infrastructure Development
NEHRP                 North East Housing Reconstruction Project
NEHRU                 North East Housing Reconstruction Unit
UN                    United Nations




           Vice President:      Praful C. Pate1
         Country Director:      Naoko Ishii
          Sector Manager:       Junaid Kamal Ahmad
        Task Team Leader:       Naresha Duraiswamy

                                                                                                             FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                       S R I LANKA
                       NORTHEASTHOUSINGRECONSTRUCTIONPROGRAM


                                                               TABLE OFCONTENTS
                                                                                                                                                                      Page
         INTRODUCTION              ..........................................................................................................................           3

         RATIONALE FORADDITIONAL FINANCING                                                 .....................................................................        4

         KEY COMPONENTS OF THE ADDITIONAL FINANCING OPERATION                                                                                  .......................  5

         PROPOSEDCHANGES                      ...............................................................................................................           6

         CONSISTENCYWITH COUNTRY ASSISTANCESTRATEGY(CAS                                                                             ................................    8

         APPRAISAL OF SCALED-UPACTIVITIES                                          ............................................................................         8

         EXPECTEDOUTCOMES                          .........................................................................................................           10

         RISKS  ...........................................................................................................................................            10

         RESULTSFRAMEWORK                          .........................................................................................................           13

         FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONSFORADDITIONAL FINANCING                                                                                     .................13
         Annex 1: ResultsFramework                      ....................................................................................................           14
         Annex 2: Performanceto date ofParentProject                                     .....................................................................         16




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties.Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.                                                                       1


                                          S R I LANKA
              ADDITIONAL FINANCINGFORTHENORTHEASTHOUSING
                                RECONSTRUCTIONPRGRAM

                                    Project Paper Data Sheet


Country: Sri Lanka                                Sector DirectorManager: Junaid K.Ahmad
Project Name: North East Reconstruction           Country Director: Naoko Ishii
Prorgam, Additional Financing                     Environmental Category: B

Borrower: Sri Lanka
Responsible agency: Ministry o fNation Buildingand Estate Infrastructure Development




Revised program development objectives/outcomes:
The Project Development Objectives remain unchanged from the original Project Appraisal
Document. A Joint Donor Needs Assessment in 2003 estimated that 290,615 houses, destroyed
duringthe conflict inthe North and East prior to 2002, neededrepair. 25,300 more houses inthe
Batticaloa and Trincomalee districts were badly damaged in 2006. The destruction to housing at
different times coincided with significant levels o f population displacement and economic
deprivation as armed hostilities erupted.

206,995 conflict-damaged houses of the pre-2002 caseload still remain unrepaired.            23,398
houses destroyed in 2006 are yet to be rebuilt. The North East Housing Reconstruction Program
(NEHRP) is the only program in Sri Lanka intended to rebuild conflict-damaged houses on the
scale envisaged. The parent project was intended to rebuild 34,784 houses. IDA rated progress
towards achieving NEHRP's Development Objective and its Implementation Performance as
satisfactory. Implementation complied with IDA fiduciary, social and environment safeguards.
The Government o f Sri Lanka was keen to scale-up the program given its results in a challenging
security environment.

The Ministry of Finance requested additional IDA funds for NEHRP on November 27, 2007.
The Government wanted to reconstruct more conflict-damaged houses. It was keen that IDA
resources finance the repair of an added 13,615 houses that would include both those destroyed
prior to 2002 and those damaged with the resumption o f hostilities in 2006. It hopes to facilitate
housing repair in areas where the conflict has since subsided and would be unlikely to interrupt
civil works. The proposedrepair o f more houses i s part o f a broader strategy to support the return
o f the displaced to areas where the security environment has improved and restart economic

There are no available funds under NEHRP to meet the requested extra caseload. IDA reviewed
different options. This included a new stand alone project, a repeater project and Additional
Financing. Additional Financing offered the simplest, quickest and most direct way to respond to
the Government's desire to scale-up the parent project.          It would retain the design and
Development Objective o f NEHRP. It would maintain the existing village selection and
beneficiary identification criteria. It would retain current safeguards to ensure compliance with
IDA social and environment guidelines. The implementation and fund flow mechanisms would
remain unchanged. The latest IDA Consultant and Procurement Guidelines would apply.
Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies: No
           -
c                                    For Additional Financing
[ ] Loan   [X 3 Credit   [ ] Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
Total Bank financing (USSm): US$43.0 Million Equivalent
Proposed terms (IDA): The financial terms o f the additional financing will be those currently
offered to Sri Lanka, being IDA hardened lendingterms for "IDA gap" countries, specifically a
ten year grace period and twenty year maturity, with principal repayable at ten percent per year
for years 11-20, and zero interest payments.
                                      FinancingPlan (US$m.)
                     Source                            Local          Foreign           Total
Borrower/Governmento f Sri Lanka                   0.7
IDAadditional financing                                            43

 INTRODUCTION

 1.         Sri Lanka has witnessed a conflict since 1981. Most hostilities were centered in the
 island's North and East. A formal cease-fire was in effect from February, 2002 to January, 2008
 despite renewed fighting in 2006. As at September 2007, 503,381 persons were internally
 displaced in Sri Lanka while 131,160 persons were registered as refugees overseas. Among the
 152,000 who returned to their villages last year, many had no place to live in due to widespread
 destruction. The formal abrogation o f the cease-fire in January 2008 led to a further
 intensificationo fthe conflict inparts o f Sri Lanka's North and East.

 2.         A Joint Donor Needs Assessment in 2003 estimated that 290,615 houses, destroyed
 duringthe conflict in the North and East prior to 2002, were unrepaired'. 25,300 more houses in
 the Batticaloaand Trincomalee districts were badly damaged in20062.The destruction to housing
 at different times coincided with significant levels o f population displacement and economic
 deprivation.

 3.         IDA had approved the SDR 51.1 million (equivalent today to US$ 84 million3) North
East Housing Reconstruction Program (NEHRP) on December 14, 2004 and declared it effective
on March 15, 2005. NEHRP was intended to rebuild conflict-damaged houses in areas where
reconstruction was possible and to facilitate the return o f the war-affected poor. It was a
commitment to support development where feasible and strengthen the economic preconditions
for a durable peace. The European Commission provided Euros 15.6 million (US$ 24.6 million
equivalent4) in two separate tranches o f parallel-financing given robust implementation in an
otherwise uncertain environment.

4.          NEHRP' continues to demonstrate results onthe grounddespite shiftinghostilities. Itwas
intended to rebuild 34,784 houses in 2,712 villages6. The reconstructionhepair o f 14,530 houses
was complete as at March 2008. The reconstruction of another 14,671 houses i s ongoing with
completion o f most anticipated in June. 84% o f the entire project caseload i s therefore either
complete or nearing completion. Work on 5,597 houses i s yet to start. These are largely located in
two districts i.e. Kilinochchi and Mullaitivu where NEHRPi s temporarily on hold due to the non-
availability o f construction materials. The two districts are on the front line o f direct hostilities.

5.          The home-owner-driven approach o f NEHRP was a best practice response to address the
housing needs o f the conflict-affected poor with minimal intermediation costs. The community
review o f beneficiary selection and participation in construction empowered villagers, reduced
grievances and strengthened transparency. The success o f NEHRP led to the replication o f the
home-owner driven strategy to other IDA-financed projects in Sri Lanka i.e. the Tsunami
Emergency Recovery Credit (TERC) and the Puttalam Housing Project.




  83,620 housesof the original 290,615 have since beenor are beingrepaired under donor-financedprojects. This
leaves a remainder of 206,995 today.
* An added   9,000 houseswere further damaged in2006 but are not included here since they hadalready been
enumerated under the pre-2002 caseload. Ofthe 25,300 housesdestroyedin2006, 1,900 have beenrepaired using other
donor funds.
  As at March 31,2008

5 ,
  As at March 31,2008
  1.e. the IDA Credit and first tranche of European Commissionparallel-financing
  There are 5,012 villages inthe North and East. The 34,784 housesinclude the 3,514 houses rebuilt underthe first
tranche of European Commissionparallel-financing.



                                                         3

 6.         US$ 64.2 million o f the IDA Credit was disbursed as at April 28, 2008. This represented
 77% o f the IDA Credit. Another US$ 3 million is expected to be disbursed by the end o f FY 08
 and US$ 6 million in the first half of FY 09. The remaining US$ 10 million i s kept inreserve for
 the Kilinochchi and Mullaitivu districts to finance future civil works when construction materials
 are available and the security environment feasible. In short, all remaining IDA funds under
 NEHRPare fully committed.

 RATIONALE FORADDITIONAL FINANCING

 7.         206,995 houses destroyed before the 2002 cease-fire needto be repairedtoday. An added
 23,398 houses destroyed in 2006' also need to be reconstructed. NEHRP is the only program in
 Sri Lanka intended to rebuild conflict-damaged houses on the scale envisaged. IDA rates
NEHRP's progress towards achieving its Development Objective and its Implementation
Performance as satisfactory. Implementation complied with IDA fiduciary, social and
 environment safeguards. The Government o f Sri Lanka was keen to scale up the program given
the results.

 8.         The Ministry o f Finance requested supplemental funds for NEHRP inNovember 2007. It
 sought IDA resources to finance the repair o f an added 13,615 conflict-damaged houses that
would include both those destroyed prior to 2002 and those damaged with the resumption o f
hostilities in 20068. The Government intends to facilitate housing repair in areas where the
conflict has subsided and would be unlikely to interrupt civil works. The proposed repair o f more
houses i s part o f a broader strategy to support the return o f the displaced to areas where the
security environmenthas improved and restart economic activity.

9.          There are no available funds under the parent projectgto meet the requested caseload.
IDA reviewed different options. This included a new stand alone project, a repeater project and
Additional Financing. Additional Financing offered the simplest, quickest and most direct way to
respond to the Government's desire to scale-up the parent project. It would retain the design and
Development Objective o fNEHRP.It would keep intact existing village selection and beneficiary
identification criteria. It would retain current fiduciary, social and environment safeguards to
comply with IDA requirements. The implementation and fund flow mechanisms would remain
unchanged. The latest IDA Consultant and Procurement Guidelineswould apply.

10.        There are eight districts in Sri Lanka's North and East, six o f which are Government-
held". The NEHRP funds allocated for four o f these districts" have either been disbursed or
would be used up shortly. The Government had targeted more houses for repair in the four
districts using some NEHRP resources allocated for the Kilinochchi and Mullaitivu districts
where disbursement i s temporarily on hold. The construction o f houses in the four districts would
be completed and all NEHRP funds utilized inFY08.

11.        Security-related transport bottlenecks led to a relatively slower pace o f housing
construction in two other Government-held districts.'*. However, implementation progress in the

'*The
  1,900 o f the 2006 caseload have already beenrepaired using other donor funds.
      Euros 9.8 million second tranche o f the European Commissionparallel-financing would support the
reconstruction o f an added 7,742 houses over and above the 13,615.
9 The Parent Project here refers to the original IDA Credit i.e. NEHRP.
lo eightdistrictsareAmparai, Batticaloa,Jaffna,Kilinochchi, Mannar,Mullaitivu,TrincomaleeandVavuniya.The
  The
LTTE currently controls the Kilinochchi andMullaitivu districts. The remainder is Government-held.
  Amparai, Batticaloa, Trincomalee and Vavuniya
l2Jaffna and Mannar



                                                          4

 two districts is still rated satisfactory with construction expected to be completed between June
 and August 2008 with all NEHRP funds disbursed soon thereafter.

 12.       As mentioned, project implementation in the Kilinochchi and Mullaitivu is temporarily
 on hold due to the non-availability o f construction materials. 1,224 houses were earlier completed
under the parent project. While some resources have been redirected for construction elsewhere,
 IDA, in consultation with the Government, has since decided not to divert any further funds and
to keep US$ 10 million on hold should the possibility o f construction resume. This would ensure
 geographic equity in light o f the 49,010 conflict-damaged houses that remain unrepaired in the
two districts. IDA and the Government would revisit the situation in FY 09 and decide at that
time whether to reallocate the amount to other districts.

 13.       The proposed Additional Financing fits in with the Government strategy to reduce acute
poverty in the conflict-affected districts and to mitigate the impact o f the conflict through
development. It would have economic spin-offs such as the increased employment for
construction workers, secure title to land, expanded retail activity and improved living conditions.
Restored habitat i s often a precursor to renewed livelihood.

                                  Anticipated Disbursementof Parent Project
                                     Estimated IDA Disbursement (IDA FY/US$m)
 Fiscal Year                  IFYO8                         IFYO9                          IFYlO
*Disbursement                 167                           16                             110*
  US$ 10 million is on hold for Kilinochchi and Mullaitivu once construction i s possible there

KEY COMPONENTSOF THE ADDITIONAL FINANCINGOPERATION

 14.       An additional 13,615 houses would be rebuilt inthe North and East under the proposed
IDA Additional Financing. This would include houses both from the pre-2002 caseload o f
206,995 conflict-damaged units13;and the 2006 caseload o f 23,398 that need to be repaired. The
houses to be rebuilt under the parent project, European Commission parallel-financing and
supplemental IDA funds covers 18% o f the original caseload. The houses to be reconstructed
would be distributed across the eight districts in proportion to the incidence o f conflict-damage.
The most vulnerable households would be identified.

15.        The first tranche o f Euros 5.8 million in European Commission resources currently
supports the reconstruction o f 3,514 houses under the parent project. The second tranche o f Euros
9.8 million would support the reconstruction o f 4,900 houses to complement the IDA Additional
Financing. The 13,615 houses to be covered under IDA and the 7,742 to be rebuilt under the
second tranche o f the European Commissionparallel-financingadd up to a total o f 21,357 houses.

16.        The Additional Financingwould support the three components o f the parent project 1.e.
(i)Housing Assistance; (ii)       Housing Technical Support and Monitoring; and (iii)           Program
Management. The Government would provide counterpart funds for the third component.

17.        Housing Assistance (IDA: US$ 40.2 million): As mentioned before, 13,615 houses
would be rebuilt. A housing support cash grant o f Rs 325,000 would be provided in five tranches
to recipients selected on housing damage and vulnerability criteria. The cash grant would be
transferred, where relevant, to joint bank accounts in the names o f both husband and wife o f the


1383,620 houses of the original 290,615 houses have either been or are beingrepaired. NEHRPand TERC financed the
repair o f most. There was a considerable over lap between the conflict-damaged and tsunami-damaged caseload.



                                                         5

identified household. The pace o f installments would be performance-based and the recipient
household would have five months to complete construction. The village and beneficiary
identification criteria would be identical to that inNEHRPI4.IDA would finance this component
infull.

 18.     Housing Technical Support and Monitoring(IDA: US$ 2.1 million): The Additional
Financing would include comprehensive technical support to ensure smooth implementation and
protect against fiduciary and reputational risks. The technical support would consist o f the
Training o f Construction Workers, a Communications Campaign, a Continuous Social Impact
Assessment, Environment Assessment, Technical Audit and Beneficiary Eligibility Audit. A Risk
Mitigation Action Plan was prepared by the Government outlining measures to address
operational, fiduciary or reputational risks.

19.      Program Management (IDA: 0.7 million and Government: US$ 0.7 million): This
component would support project administration. It would finance the operational expenditure o f
the North East Housing Reconstruction Unit (NEHRU), the NEHRUDistrict ProgramUnits and
NEHRUstaff at the divisional level. Itwould cover staff costs, operational expenditure including
goods, the grievance redressal mechanism, land dispute resolution and the internal audit. The
Government would provide US$700,000 incounterpart funds.

20.      The Government o f Sri Lanka counterpart contribution would total US$ 700,000. The
Results Framework has been updatedI5 with revised performance indicators and targets in-line
withthe IDAAdditional Financingand Europeanparallel-financing.

PROPOSED CHANGES

21.      As noted above, the proposed Additional Financing would retain the NEHRP Project
Development Objective. It would retain NEHRP financial management, procurement,
environment and social safeguards. The project components would not change. The Additional
Financing would only scale-up the original project. The activities to be supported with
supplemental IDA funds and the indicative financing are given below:



   ProjectCostsby               Total Project       NEHRP            Additional IDA         Government
   Components                   costs                                Funds                  CounterpartFunds
   HousingAssistance            109                 68.8             40.2                   0.0
   HousingTechnical             4.80                2.7              2.1                    0.0
   Support/Monitoring
   ProjectManagement            6.10                2.70             0.7                    2.7
   UnallocatedCategory          0.8                 0.8              0.0                    0.0
   Total"                       120.7               75              43.0                    2.7

22.      Impact on ImplementationTimeline: IDA would extend the project closing date for
NEHRPby two and a halfyears from June 30, 2009 to December 31, 2011to accommodate the
activities under the Additional Financing. This would be implemented in all eight districts over
30 months.


l4
 For a fuller discussion, see the Project AuDraisal Document for NEHRP dated November 9, 2004 i.e. Report No:
30436-LK -pages 3-6 and Annex 4 o f that document.
 Please see Annex 1 for updated ResultsFramework.
l6
 This FinancingPlan covers the parent project, the Additional Financing and the total thereof.
"Thetotalshavebeenroundeduptothenearestdecimal.




                                                        6

                              ProjectedDisbursement of IDA AdditionalFinancing

                                    Projected Disbursement (IDA FY/US$ m)
  FiscalYear                IFYO9                       IFYlO                    IFY11
  Disbursement              114                         115                      114

 23.      Disbursement Arrangements: The designated dollar account for the parent project
 would be retained for the Additional Financing. This would relieve the client from the
 administrative burden o f operating two accounts. The transaction-based method o f disbursement
 would continue. US$ 40.2 Mn would be allocated for the housing cash grants with 100% o f
 expenditure financed by IDA.This would be inkeeping with the parent credit.

 24.      The table below presents the category o f items, the allocation o f the amounts under each
 category and percentage o f expenditure to be financed ineach category.

                              Indicative AllocationBy ExpenditureCategory

 Expenditurecategory         Additional Financing         IDA Balance from Parent  Percentage of
                             Amount in US$(millions)      Projectas at December    Expenditureto be
                                                          31,2008                  Financed  -Additional
                                                                                   Financing"
 Sub-grants                  40.2                          15.86                   100%
 Goods                       0.29                         0.27                     100%
 Consultants services        2.30                         0.45                     100%
 Training                    0.21                         0.06                     100%
 Incremental Operating       0.00                         0.82                     0
 costs
 Refunding o fProject        0.00                         0.52                     Refinanced pursuantto
.PreparationAdvance                                                                Section 2.02 (b) o f D C A
 Unallocated                 0.00                         0.50
-Total                       43.00                        18.48

 25,      ImplementationSchedule:The anticipated Additional Financing would be effective in
 September 2008. Activities financed by it would be completed by June 30, 2011 while the credit
 itself would close on December 31,20 11.

 26.      Other ProposedChanges:The Additional Financingwould no longer cover the repair of
 partly-damaged houses as did the parent project. Most houses that were partly-damaged before
 2002 have already been repaired. The Government and UN agencies had likewise financed the
 repair o f the partly-damaged caseload o f 2006. The supplemental IDA funds would only finance
 the reconstruction o f fully-destroyed houses. The Additional Financing would not include the
 Housing Finance Study and the establishment o f the Management Information System, both o f
 which had been completed under the parent project. There would be no provision for NGO
 Partner Organizations as this had been dropped under the parent project with the home-owner
 choosing not to avail o f such a facility. The mandate of the Grievance Redressal Mechanism has
 been expanded to include any complaint pertaining to project implementation, not just those
 pertaining to the selection o f villages and beneficiaries. The composition o f the Grievance
 Redressal Committee at the divisional level would be expanded to include civil society
 participation and where needed multi-ethnic representation. The risk mitigation measures have
 been expanded".



   Government counterpart funds would finance incremental operating costs
 l9 afullerdiscussion,pleaseseetheSectiononRisks.
   For



                                                      7

CONSISTENCYWITH COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS)

27.      The upcoming CAS highlights the need to invest in development where IDA i s better
positioned to address the causes and consequences o f Sri Lanka's conflict. IDA would use the
economic instruments at its disposal to enable an end to the economic causes o f the conflict to the
extent that it can. It would do so with an emphasis on reconciliation and development in the
conflict-affected areas. While a political resolution to the conflict i s not within IDA'Smandate,
IDA would still endeavor to strengthen the economic pre-conditions for peace. Peace would be a
precursor to sustained growth and poverty alleviation in Sri Lanka. The proposed Additional
Financingwould be inkeeping with the conflict mitigation thrust o f the upcoming CAS.

28.      NEHRP Performance to Date: Please see Annex 2 for more information on the
development impact o f the parent project.

APPRAISAL OF SCALED-UPACTIVITIES

29.     Economic and Financial: Direct Benefits refer to the new housing stock worth US$
40.2 million with over 1,200 employment opportunities during construction. The NEHRP
experience indicates that on average labor cost i s 35 percent o f total construction cost o f a
housing unit. In other words, for every US$1 spent on the housing, US$0.35 would be plugged
back to the community. US$ 40.2 million investment would generate US$ 14 million o f wage
income. Indirect Benefits include spin-off economic activities related to suppliers o f goods and
services, employment opportunities inthe services sector (transport, sales etc) and skills training.

30.     The housing units would be the primary asset o f beneficiaries given their poverty.
Housing can leverage resources as homeowners borrow at improved rates against home equity.
With increased economic activity due to the Additional Financing and service provision under
other donor-funded projects, the value o f land and housing would likely appreciate inthe coming
years.

31.     The training o f construction workers would generate spin-off effects on wage income in
an area with large scale unemployment. Skills training would ensure an increase inincome o f an
individual trainee (incremental income level) by an average o f about US$ 1,150 per annum or a
net present value o f income differential o f US$ 7,020 over the course o f their productive life (15
years). This benefit would far exceed the training cost o f about US$400 per individual under the
Additional Financing.

32.     The Government would contribute US$ 700,000 in counterpart funds. The short term
fiscal impact o f the Additional Financing i s neutral. The cash grant i s for housing, a private good,
the maintenance o f which would not contribute to a future fiscal burden on the Government.

33.     The long term fiscal impact i s not significant. The US$ 43 million IDA credit i s a
concessional loan with a 10-year grace period, a maturity o f 20 years, zero interest and a 0.75%
service charge on the outstanding amount. The grant element of IDA credit would be 77 percent
with disbursement spread over three years (32%, 36%, and 32%) under IDAterms, discountingat
a conservative 14 percent. The debt service payment (of US$ 4 million per year on average) i s
not significant as a percentage o f GDP.

34.     Institutional:The line agency responsible for the Additional Credit is the Ministry o f
Nation Buildingand Estate Infrastructure Development. The North East Housing Reconstruction
Unit (NEHRU), mapped to this Ministry but based in Trincomalee, implements the project.



                                                 8

 Project administration i s otherwise carried out at the district and divisional levels. NEHRU's
 eight District Program Units supervise project activities on the ground. A National Steering
 Committee oversees the overall program. The institutional and administration arrangements for
 the Additional Financing are the same as inthe parent project2'.

 35.       Procurement:The procurement methods and thresholds under the parent project would
 be retained. The guidelines applicable to all procurement under the Additional Financing would
 be in accordance with Guidelines, Procurement Under IBRD Loans and Credits dated May 2004
 (revised October 2006) and Guidelines: Selection and Emuloyment o f Consultants by World
 Bank Borrowers dated M a y 2004 (revised October 2006). IDA would review and approve the bid
 documents in use under the parent project. NEHRU submitted a new procurement plan for IDA
 review. Although IDA did not identify significant capacity issues during earlier supervision, it
 carried out a capacity assessment. Refresher training would be conducted ifrequired to reinforce
 compliance with IDA procurement guidelines. NEHRP would adhere to the Financial Authority
 level for procurement decisions as set forth in the Government o f Sri Lanka's Procurement
 Manual dated 2006. Procurement Committees would likewise be set up to evaluate bids under the
 respective financial thresholds.

 36.       Financial Management: The Additional Financing would retain the financial
 management (FM) and disbursement arrangements o f the parent project. The project has a
 ModerateFM risk rating. NEHRU has a proven track record o f sound financial management
 arrangements and compliance with financial covenants. There i s a commitment by Government
 to submit the external audit reports on time after the last audit was received four months late.
NEHRP would continue with on-going risk mitigation measures that include: (i) internal               robust
 control procedures with adequate technical certification o f construction progress and quality
before making payments; (ii)continuous and comprehensive internal audit including a desk
review o f beneficiary eligibility on a sample basis; (iii)         independent technical audit and follow-up
on findings; (iv) independent fixed asset verification;'l             and (v) a communications campaign to
enhance awareness o f project activities. IDA would carry out a risk-based review o f selected FM
activities. Given the deteriorating security situation, the assistance o f independent third parties
would be sought to undertake reviews such as the physical existence o f assets (including houses).
A RiskMitigationAction Planis inplace to ensure fiduciary safeguards.

37.       Environment: Environmental issues that pertain to the proposed Additional Financing
are the same as in the parent project. Minimal on-site environmental impact is anticipated given
that the proposed sites are on existing housing plots. The foremost environmental impact i s
associated with the increased demand for construction material. The need for large quantities o f
sand, timber, rubble and clay to build an additional 13,615 houses would intensify mining and
extraction. This can cause serious environmental damage unless adequate precautions are taken to
ensure that naturalresources are not exploited inan unsustainablemanner.

38.       NEHRU undertook numerous environmental assessments under the parent project to
appraise the extent o f environment impact. It operationalised procedures and guidelines to
minimize unsustainable natural resource extraction. The Additional Credit would retain these
measures and strengthen where possible existing mechanisms to regulate the supply and use o f




2oThe Ministryo f Local Government and Provincial Council's National Policv Declaration for Local Government
issued inJuly 2007 makes local authorities responsible for service provision. The two provincial council chief
secretaries would represent the decentralized administration inthe National Steering Committee.
2'O f equipment and vehicles



                                                          9

 natural building material. This would minimize the impact o f sand mining, clay mining and
 timber harvesting.

 39.       The environmental safeguards relevant to NEHRP would be retained. The Environmental
 Assessment and Management Framework developed for the parent project would also be
 retained. Each new village included would be assessed using the Environmental Information
 Questionnaire (EIQs). The EIQhad been drafted based on the findings o f a pilot EIA carried out
 during the preparation o f the parent project. Each EIQ would include an Environmental
 Management Plan. Institutional and implementation arrangements relevant to environmental
 safeguards would be carried over from the parent project. Should the scaled-up housing program
require additional staff to implement environmental safeguards, they would be hired.

40.        Social: The Additional Financing i s expected to have limitednegative impact. It would in
 fact have positive social impact. A CSIA i s in place to identify potential negative impact for the
duration o f the Additional Finance. This social assessment i s intended to ensure proper
beneficiary selection, a robust Grievance Redressal Mechanism and a functioning Land Task
Force. The CSIA would ensure that social concerns identified during implementation are
promptly addressed.

41.        IDA'SOperational Policy (OPBP) 4.12 that governs involuntary resettlement is not
triggered. There would not be any land acquisition or involuntary resettlement under the
Additional Finance. NEHRP entails on-site home owner-reconstruction. The beneficiary
identification criteria require proof o f ownership o f the land upon which the house would be
rebuilt. The land task force would be revivedto regularize beneficiary title deeds and resolve land
disputes. OP 4.10 that governs indigenous peoples may be triggered. Given that the selection o f
beneficiaries would be an ongoing process, it i s not yet clear whether indigenous communities
would be involved as beneficiaries or not.                   Should these communities be included in the
Additional Financing, a diagnostic consultation would be carried out with the communities in
question at that point. The consultation would be undertaken by a qualified social
scientisthstitution, with knowledge o f the traditions and culture o f the indigenous people, to
ascertain their specific wishes and minimize the possibility that project interventions
inadvertently create adverse effects. Based on the consultation report, NEHRUwould introduce
specific interventions vis-a-vis these communitieszz.

EXPECTEDOUTCOMES

42.The Additional Financingi s intended to scale-up the development interventions and reinforce
the outcomes achieved under the parent project. Itwould strengthen fragile conflict-affected
communities through improved housing, secure land tenure, enhanced construction standards and
slulls training. These outcomes would be demonstratedby quantifiable outputs. Specifically over
the implementation period, the Additional Financing would (i)                 support the reconstruction o f an
added 13,615 houses; (ii)       train 500 construction workers; and (iii)        regularize land title for 10,000
home owners.

RISKS

43.       Please see table below for a discussion on risks.




22 For a broader discussion on the subject, please see the Project Appraisal Document for NEHRP -page 72.




                                                           10

Riskto DevelopmentObjectives          RiskRating      RiskMitigationMeasure
The first risk is the political. Sri  H               The upcoming IDA Country
Lanka's North and East faces an                       Assistance Strategy includes
uncertain security situation. This                    safeguard measures to address such
increases the risk o f political                      risks. The proposed measures have
interference by outside stakeholders                  beenoperationalized underthe
and armed groups. The                                 Additional Financing. Activities
implementation environment is                         underthe Additional Financing
strained with potential weakened                      would be screened through a 'conflict
financial safeguards. Further, the                    filter' to ensure that (i)
                                                                               NEHRP
perceived attempts at demographic                     benefits continue to be transparently
re-engineering increases the                          distributed solely in accordance with
reputational risk to IDA.                             established vulnerability criteria; (ii)
                                                      operational decisions reflect the
                                                      development needs o f communities;
                                                      and (iii)  the housing program is used
                                                      to promote ethnic reconciliation
                                                      where applicable, thereby
                                                      endeavoring to address causes and
                                                      consequences o f the conflict.

                                                      Measures have been introduced to
                                                      strengthen the Grievance Redressal
                                                      Mechanism established under the
                                                      parentproject to go beyond
                                                      complaints that pertainto the
                                                      identification o f villages and
                                                      beneficiaries to include any
                                                      complaint pertainingto project
                                                      implementation. The Grievance
                                                      Redressal Committee at the
                                                      Divisional Level would also be
                                                      expanded to include NGO, CBO and
                                                      ethnic stakeholders (where the
                                                      divisions are multi-ethnic) to ensure
                                                      greater civil society supervision.

                                                      A stipulated number of structured
                                                      focal group discussions indifferent
                                                      districts and ethnicitiesheligions
                                                      would be minuted under the CSIA
                                                      and shared with IDA to strengthen
                                                      avenues for increased stakeholder
                                                      feedback.

                                                      The CSIA would identify
                                                      opportunities to support
                                                      reconciliation and inter-ethnic trust.
                                                      An example here would be the
                                                      training o fmasons and carpenters
                                                      from one community to helpthose
                                                      from another communitybuildtheir
                                                      houses.

                                                      Project management would be more
                                                      :xplicitly sensitized on inter-ethnic
                                                      issues through structured briefings
                                                      with Buddhist clergy, Hindusocial
                                                      work organizations, Mosque
                                                      federations and church groups inthe
                                                      .egion every six months.



                                                11

                                                 The ongoing Communication
                                                 Campaign under the parent project
                                                 would be strengthened further to
                                                 reach out to and disclose accurate and
                                                 timely project information across a
                                                 broader array o f political
                                                 stakeholders, public fora and media.
It is conceivable that the houses     S          IDA resources would be allocated
rebuilt in certain areas could be                across districts and divisions on
subject to renewed damage due to the             established criteria such as the
conflict or abandoned due to general             caseload o f conflict-damaged housing
insecurity.                                      stock, the number of IDP returnees
                                                 and vulnerability. Once allocated,
                                                 they would not easily be transferred
                                                 across districts. This would ensure
                                                 geographic equity.

                                                 Actual reconstruction however would
                                                 only commence inthose divisions
                                                 where the conflict i s unlikely to
                                                 resume and the houses rebuilt likely
                                                 to remain intact. Indicatorshave been
                                                 developed to help identify divisions
                                                 and villages where it would be safe to
                                                 commence construction on a
                                                 sustainable basis. The division-
                                                 specific indicators include the (i)
                                                 number of displaced who have
                                                 returned, (ii)  restoration o f civil
                                                 administration, (iii)  extent o f de-
                                                 mining and (iv) reduction o f 'security
                                                 incidents' as recorded by the United
                                                 Nations High Commissioner for
                                                 Refugees.

                                                 Shouldhousing reconstruction not be
                                                 possible incertain districts due
                                                 prolonged conflict, the funds
                                                 allocated would not be transferred
                                                 without prior IDA concurrence. IDA
                                                 no-objection would only be granted
                                                 inthe case ofanacute and
                                                 compelling housingneed inother
                                                 'safer' districts. The objective i s to
                                                 ensure geographic equity given its
                                                 salience to the conflict.
Misappropriation o f resources inthe S           The Additional Financing retains
context o f the uncertain Governance             adequate fiduciary, risk mitigation
environment given the resumed                    measures and social safeguards to
conflict.                                        guard against the misappropriation o f
                                                 resources. A Risk Mitigation Action
                                                 Plan is annexed to the Operational
                                                 Manual. NEHRPaudits are up-to-
                                                 date. NEHRP has robust internal
                                                 control systems. The technical
                                                 certification o f construction by
                                                 technical officers precedes actual
                                                 payment o f the cash grant. There i s a
                                                 continuous and comprehensive
                                                 Internal Audit. The audit reviews
                                                 payment to beneficiaries. There is an




                                           12

                                                                         independentTechnicalAudit, not to
                                                                         mentionan independentfixed asset
                                                                         verification of vehicles and
                                                                         equipment. The Communication
                                                                         CamDaimstrengthens transparency.

                                                                         IDA supervisionwould continueto
                                                                         ensure that funds reachthe intended
                                                                         beneficiariesandthat physical
                                                                         progressis alignedwith payment.
                                                                         The UnitedNationsHigh
                                                                         Commissionfor Refugeeswould help
                                                                         monitor complaintsby returning
                                                                         IDPspertainingto the misuseof IDA
                                                                         funds.
There is the risk that IDA supervision H                                 Insuchascenario, IDAwould seek
may not bepossible.The volatile                                          regularupdatesfrom the North East
environment couldimpede IDA                                              HousingReconstructionUniton
missions. Security-related                                               conflict-relateddamage to newly
impedimentscouldprevent hands-on                                         rebuilt houses andrebuilt houses
supervision.                                                             abandoneddue to resumed
                                                                         displacement.It would assign reputed
                                                                        NGOsto cross check andundertake
                                                                         asset verification, ifneeded.The
                                                                         verification would cover the (i)
                                                                        physicalexistence of the asset (this
                                                                         includeshousing); (ii) usageof the
                                                                         asset by the intendeduser; and (iii)
                                                                         quality ofthe asset inlinewith its
                                                                         specification.A Risk Mitigation
                                                                        Action Planoutlinesthe fiduciary and
                                                                         operationalsafeguards inplace.
Risk Rating-H(High Risk), S (SubstantialRisk), M(Modest Risk), N(Neg1igi Eor Low Risk).

RESULTSFRAMEWORK

44.       The Results Framework o f the parent project was revised in light o f European
Commission parallel-financing and the proposed IDA Additional Financing. The updated Results
Framework i s provided inAnnex 1.

FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONSFORADDITIONAL FINANCING

45.       The financial terms o f the Additional Financing would be those currently offered to Sri
Lanka, being hardened IDA lending terms for IDA gap countries, specifically a ten year grace
period and twenty year maturity, with principal repayable at ten percent per year for years 11-20,
and zero interest payments. The financial, environment and social safeguards would remain the
same as in the original credit. The latest IDA Consultant and Procurement Guidelines would
apply -




                                                  13

                                                                                                     Annex 1
                                     RESULTS FRAMEWORK

Project DevelopmentObjective        Outcome Indicators                    Use of OutcomeIndicators

NEHRP (Le. the parentIDA Credit,    56,141 beneficiarieshave arebuilt     Informationon the pace of
the Additional Financingand         habitablehome.                        implementationandachievementof
EuropeanCommissionParallel-                                               outcomeswould be usedto align
Financing)is intendedto providethe                                        NEHRPwith other development
poorestconflict-affectedfamilies                                          initiativesinthe conflict-affected
with improvedandaffordable                                                regioninan integratedand seamless
housingunitsin Sri Lanka's North                                          mannerto improveoverallliving
andEast. This would help improve                                          standards.
living conditions,aprecursorto the
resumptionof economic activity.

IntermediateResults                 ResultsIndicatorsFor Each             Use of ResultsMonitoring
                                    Component
Component One-Housing               ComponentOne                          ComponentOne
Assistance

Identified beneficiariesbuildhouses 56,141 housingunitsreconstructed      Low levelspoint either to capacity
inthe allottedamountoftime andto    within specifiedtime andallocated     constraintsor security-related
specifiedtechnicalstandards.        budget over a six year period.        impediments andthe needto design
                                                                          ameliorationproceduresfor identified
                                    Percentageof grantsdisbursedwithin    constraints.The latter couldinclude
                                    the five monthperiodandwithin         human,physicalor institutional
                                    each disbursementphase (i.e.          capacity.
                                    purchaseofmaterial,constructionof
                                    foundation, superstructureand
                                    completion).

                                    Percentageof identified beneficiaries Lowpercentageflags ineffective
                                    that are amongst the most vulnerable, targetingmechanismsandwould be
                                    includingwomen-headedhouseholds,      usedfor its redesignwherepossible
                                    the disabled, those who hadlost
                                    immediate family members to the
                                    war, those subject to multiple
                                    displacementetc (as apercentageof
                                    total beneficiaries and % of total
                                    most vulnerable)
ComponentTwo - Capacity             ComponentTwo                          ComponentTwo
Building andMonitoring

Adequate capacity available to      1,900 trainedconstructionworkers      Low levelsflag discrepancies in
support andmonitorhousing           assistinginNEHRP construction         demand for andsupplyof skilled
reconstruction                                                            labor.Datawill be usedto refine
                                    62,000 landdisputesresolved           subcomponent.
                                    through re-establishedmobile land
                                    task forces at the District level

                                    Numberofperceived complaints
                                    capturedby the Continuous Social
                                    ImpactAssessment

                                    Percentageof Technicaldefects         Highnumber of technicaldefects
                                    reportedout ofsampleby the            point to the lack of engineering
                                    independentTechnicalAudit             oversight andinsufficient technical
                                                                          support to the home-owner.
Component Three -Program            Component Three                       ComponentThree
Management




                                                     14

                                      I                                   I
All actors (NEHRU, district program    Percentageof home-owner             Low levels could flag inappropriate
units, divisional officers) aware of   compliancewith technicalstandards   standards or poor communication
roles andresponsibilitiesandcomply                                         with homeownerbuilders.
accordingly.                           Percentage of grievancesresolved    Delaysflag ineffective systemor
                                                                           overambitioustime periodspecified
                                                                           for grievanceredressal.Datato be
                                                                           usedto revisesystemwhere possible.




                                                      15

                                                                                              Annex 2

                                Performanceto date of Parent Project

1.       NEHRP was intended to rebuild 34,78423 houses in 2,712 villages. The development
impact o f the parent project has been documented through regular IDA supervision, the
Continuous Social Impact Assessment (CSIA), the Technical Audit and other reports.               One
survey revealed that over 80% o f the rebuilt houses remained occupied despite continuing
displacement elsewhere inthe North and East. All beneficiaries had secure legal title to their land.
The reliance on the money lender had declined by 40% as debts, earlier incurred for housing
repair, were no longer needed. Transport services to NEHRP villages increased by 11% in
response to renewed demand by the returnee population. All beneficiaries reportedimproved self-
esteem and social standing inthe broader community.

2.       Over 70% o f beneficiaries reported that restored housing facilitated the resumption o f
livelihood. The NEHRP home-owner often relied upon the security o f a rebuilt house to invest in
home gardening, livestock, poultry farming, home-based retail trade and tailoring. The CSIA
indicated that beneficiary household income had increased in seven o f the eight districts due to
such activity. The beneficiary savings rate increased four-fold reflecting improved income.
NEHRP trained 1,100 masons and carpenters to provide construction labor, stabilize wages and
help beneficiaries save. The home-owner was able to save 14% on labor with the increased
availability o f skilled construction workers. The training also provided recipients with non-farm
employment in project areas and beyond. The Technical Audit revealed that the structural
stability, quality o f materials used and quality o f workmanship had improved each successive
year o fthe project.


North and East - to regularize title to land. This had become an issue due to pervasive conflict-
3.       Eight mobile land task forces were set up under NEHRP - one in each district of the

related displacement and encroachment. The mobile land task forces had registered 96,385 land
disputes, investigated 73,475 cases and resolved 52,72 1 instances o f disputedunclear land title.
They issued 44,279 valid land right documents, serviced thousands o f beneficiary and non-
beneficiary households alike and provided considerable social benefits to the wider population o f
the affected districts. NEW facilitateda tree replantingcampaign to compensate for the timber
used. This included approx. 49,000 coconut, teak, jak and mango saplings planted in 2006 and
2007.




*'Thisnumber includesthe 3,5 14 housesrebuilt underthe EuropeanCommissionparallel-financing.



                                                    16



