                                      Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR2304



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                   (IDA-40140 IDA-44280 TF-56348)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 51.1 MILLION
                       (US$75.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

             DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

                                         FOR A

            NORTH EAST HOUSING RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM



                                      June 11, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Urban, Water, and Sanitation Sector
South Asia Region
                                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective December 2011)

                                 Currency Unit = Sri Lankan Rupee
                                         1.55 US$= SDR1
                                    132.5 Rupees (Rs.) = US$ 1

                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                       January 1 - December31

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADB    Asian Development Bank                           NEPC        North East Provincial Council

AF     Additional Financing                             NGO         Non Governmental Organization

BRC    Beneficiary Rehabilitation Committee             PAD         Project Appraisal Document

CAS    Country Assistance Strategy                      PDO         Program Development Objective

CBO    Community Based Organizations                    PPF         Project Preparation Facility

CEIA   Continuous Environmental Impact Assessment       PO          Partner Organization

CSIA   Continuous Social Impact Assessment              QAG         Quality Assurance Group

EC     European Commission                              QALP        Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio

EIA    Environmental Impact Assessment                  RAP         Resettlement Action Plan

EIQ    Environmental Impact Questionnaire               SDO         Social Development Officer

EMF    Environmental Management Framework               SIA         Social Impact Assessment

FMR    Financial Management Report                      SIL         Specific Investment Loan

GOSL   Government of Sri Lanka                          TA          Technical Assistance

IDA    International Development Association            TOR         Terms Of Reference

IDP    Internally Displaced Person                      UN          United Nations

IEC    Information, Education, and Communication        VRC         Village Rehabilitation Committee

ISR    Implementation Status Report                     LTTE        Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam

MoNB   Ministry of Nation Building                      MIS         Management Information System


                                                   ii
MTR     Midterm Review

NEERP   North East Emergency Reconstruction Project

NEHRP   North East Housing Reconstruction Program

NEHRU   North East Housing Reconstruction Unit




                           Vice President:       Isabelle M. Guerrero
                         Country Director:       Diarietou Gaye
                          Sector Manager:        Ming Zhang
                      Project Team Leader:       Shideh Hadian
                         ICR Team Leader:        Shideh Hadian




                                                    iii
                                         SRI LANKA
                     Sri Lanka: North East Housing Reconstruction Program

                                                      Contents
A. Basic Information..................................................................................................... v
B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................. v
C. Ratings Summary..................................................................................................... v
D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................ vi
E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................ vi
F. Results Framework Analysis ................................................................................. vii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ............................................................. viii
H. Restructuring (if any) ............................................................................................. ix
I. Disbursement Profile............................................................................................... ix


1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ......................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................ 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes........................................................................................ 13
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..................................................... 20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................... 21
6. Lessons Learned ..................................................................................................... 24
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .. 26


Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing...................................................................... 27
Annex 2. Outputs by Component .............................................................................. 28
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis.............................................................. 31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ..... 36
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................ 38
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................. 38
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ............. 39
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ............... 51
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ................................................................... 52
Map


                                                             iv
                                       DATA SHEET
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Sri Lanka: North East Housing
Country:                Sri Lanka               Project Name:
                                                                          Reconstruction Program
                                                                          IDA-40140, IDA-
Project ID:             P083932                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          44280,TF56348
ICR Date:               06/11/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF SRI
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          LANKA
                        XDR 51.10M for
Original Total          Parent Project          Total Disbursed
                                                                          XDR 77.30M
Commitment:             XDR 26.2M for           Amount:
                        Additional Financing
Revised Amount:         XDR 77.30M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Economic Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: European Commission

B. Key Dates
     Process              Date             Process             Original Date   Revised / Actual Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/26/2004     Effectiveness:             03/15/2005            03/15/2005
Appraisal:            10/04/2004     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             12/14/2004     Mid-term Review:                                 04/23/2007
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2009            12/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower                   Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                        Satisfactory       Implementing        Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision:
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Satisfactory       Overall Borrower    Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:



                                                v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                                  Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry                Highly Satisfactory
                                      No
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                                      No                                               Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                                 Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original                  Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Housing construction                                                   97                   97
Sub-national government administration                                  3                    3


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction                   29                        29
Land administration and management                                     14                        14
Personal and property rights                                           14                        14
Social safety nets                                                     14                        14
Urban services and housing for the poor                                29                        29

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                                 At Approval
Vice President:              Isabelle Guerrero                   Praful C. Pate
Country Director:            Diarietou Gaye                      Peter C. Harrold
Sector Manager:              Ming Zhang                          Sonia Hammam
                                                                 Naresha Duraiswamy and Christoph Pusch
Project Team Leader:         Shideh Hadian                       This is correct. In the PAD, both names are
                                                                 given.
ICR Team Leader:             Shideh Hadian
ICR Primary Author:          Sati Achath




                                                 vi
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives

The main objective of the project was to facilitate the reconstruction of 46,000 houses in
the North East over a four-year period through the provision of housing support cash
grants.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)

The objective was not revised. However, the initial target of 46,000 houses by
International Development Association (IDA) was reduced to 27932 houses, due to
budget shortfall resulting from: (a) the Government‟s decision to increase the cash grant
from Rs.250,000 to Rs.325,000 in May 2007, at the time of mid-term review of the
project (allocation of Rs.100,000 for partly damaged houses remained unchanged); and
(b) a change in the ratio of fully damaged to partly damaged houses from initial estimate
of 80:20 to 95:5 which was actually observed on the ground and resulted in increase in
the number of houses requiring Rs 325,000. Further, under the Additional Financing (AF),
which was approved in November 2008, additional 13615 houses were planned to be
rebuilt across eight districts in the North and East. Thus the revised target for the IDA
part became 41,547.

The target of 8514 houses for European Commission (EC) remained the same. The
revised total for both the IDA and EC became 50061 (41547+8514). At the time of EC
grant closing on June 30, 2009, 8532 houses were constructed (18 houses over and above
the initial target), due to savings from favorable exchange rate fluctuation.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target    Formally         Actual Value
                                            Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval         Target        Completion or
                                             documents)         Values         Target Years
                Number of housing units constructed within specified time and allocated budget
Indicator 1 :
                (Parent Project and Additional Financing)
Value
quantitative or                                  46,000         50,079            49,507
Qualitative)
Date achieved         30 June, 2008           Dec-31-2011                      Dec-31-2011
Comments
                This is inclusive of 8,532 EC funded houses completed on June 30, 2009.
(incl. %
achievement)
              Percentage of cash grants disbursed within the allocated four year
Indicator 2 : construction period


                                              vii
                                                                                This indicator was
Value
                                                                                not monitored for
quantitative or
Qualitative)                                                                    the reason
                                                                                mentioned below.
Date achieved
                  NEHRP was a large scale housing project, and more than 95% of the fund
Comments          was allocated to the housing. This indicator could not be followed for
(incl. %          each and every house. But collectively, the quarterly disbursement was
achievement)      pretty much the indicator for disbursement on housing cash grant.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                           Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                              Revised
                                             approval                           Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                            documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of homeowners with regularized land titles as part of NEHRP.
Value
(quantitative     N/A                              50,091           50,079            49,507
or Qualitative)
Date achieved          March 1, 2005              Dec-31-2011                          Dec-31-2011
Comments          Land title is the main eligibility criteria for housing grant. Therefore, all
(incl. %          beneficiaries who have completed their houses and the ones under construction
achievement)      should have a legal land title.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
 1      06/13/2005             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                        3.68
 2      01/24/2006             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      16.59
 3      08/09/2006             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      21.51
 4      01/23/2007             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      34.54
 5      06/29/2007             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      36.11
 6      12/26/2007             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      48.67
 7      06/29/2008             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      62.45
 8      12/31/2008             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      70.54
 9      05/29/2009             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      72.72
 10     11/29/2009             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      75.77
 11     05/26/2010             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      81.66
 12     12/11/2010             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      95.97
 13     06/27/2011             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     113.29
 14     01/01/2012             Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory              118.65



                                                 viii
H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                            ix
1.    Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1. Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background:

More than 20 years of civil conflict in Sri Lanka had led to loss of life, displacement of
persons belonging to all ethnic groups, and the destruction of infrastructure, housing,
health centers, and schools. At the time of appraisal, approximately 2.5 million persons
lived in areas of direct military activity. Of these, up to 700,000 had left the country
while about 615,000 individuals remained internally displaced as of June 2002. About
172,000 of the internally displaced persons (IDPs) lived in refugee camps.

The Government of Sri Lanka (GoSL) and the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE)
agreed to a permanent cease-fire on February 23, 2002, which led to 34 months of
cessation of hostilities. The cease-fire led to the lifting of the economic embargo on
LTTE controlled areas, the re-opening of road and certain rail links to the North East, the
resumption of economic activity in the region, and the return of 369,000 IDPs to their
original homes. However, the situation remained volatile, as the LTTE suspended its
participation in the peace talks in April 2003, and in October 2003 it submitted its
proposals for an Interim Self-Governing Authority in the North East. A center-left
coalition was voted into power in April 2004. Although the new administration pledged
to continue the peace process, there was considerable lack of trust between the
Government and the LTTE.

Sector issues. The restoration of damaged houses was a key component to help establish
normalcy for the conflict-affected population. The war had led to the destruction or
damage of 58% of the total housing stock in the North East i.e. 326,000 units. The Jaffna
district alone accounted for 45% of these damaged units. The Government policy was to
provide Rs. 150,000 to families below the poverty threshold (defined as a family income
of less than Rs. 2,500/US$25 per month) to help repair their damaged housing. The funds
required to assist the reconstruction of total housing needs was about US$485 million.

Rationale for Bank assistance: The North East Housing Reconstruction Program
(NEHRP) was in line with the Government's development strategy to rehabilitate the
conflict-affected areas and encourage the return of IDPs. The Bank‟s Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) emphasized peace as a precondition for sustained economic growth in Sri
Lanka and added that without peace, there was no prospect for development. The CAS
explicitly provided for financing the repair of infrastructure. The Bank subsequently
decided to focus on the housing sector, given the scale of financing needs and the relative
absence of donor involvement therein. NEHRP complemented other Bank programs in
the North East including for restoring livelihoods, health, education, roads, irrigation, and
water.




                                             1
1.2. Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The main objective of the project was to facilitate the reconstruction of 46,000 houses in
the North East over a four-year period through the provision of housing support cash
grants.

Key performance indicators:

       Number of housing units reconstructed within a specified time and allocated
        budget
       Percentage of cash grants disbursed within the allocated four year construction
        period
       Number of homeowners with regularized land titles as part of NEHRP

1.3. Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
     Indicators, and reasons/justification

The objective was not revised1. However, the target of the number of houses was revised
due to factors mentioned in the Foot Note 1 given below.

1.4. Main Beneficiaries,

The expected beneficiaries of the project included:

       Displaced populations in the North East who would be provided with houses and
        would benefit in terms of the regularization of their land titles.
       Construction workers who would receive training in carpentry and masonry,
        which would consequently allow the resumption of economic activity in the war
        devastated region through increased construction activity.


1
  NEHRP was funded by the Parent Project ($75.0 million); Additional Financing ($43.0 million); and EC
co-financing ($21.7 million). The initial target of 46,000 houses by the IDA was reduced to 27932 houses,
due to budget shortfall resulting from: (a) the Government‟s decision to increase the cash grant from
Rs.250,000 to Rs.325,000 in May 2007, at the time of mid-term review of the project (allocation of
Rs.100,000 for partly damaged houses remained unchanged); and (b) a change in the ratio of fully damaged
to partly damaged houses from initial estimate of 80:20 to 95:5 which was actually observed on the ground
and resulted in increase in the number of houses requiring Rs 325,000. Further, under the Additional
Financing (AF), which was approved in November 2008, additional 13615 houses were planned to be
rebuilt across eight districts in the North and East. Thus the revised target became 41,547.

The target of 8514 houses for European Commission (EC) remained the same. The revised total for both
the IDA and EC became 50061 (41547+8514). At the time of EC grant closing on June 30, 2009, 8532
houses were constructed (18 houses over and above the initial target), due to savings from favorable
exchange rate fluctuation.




                                                   2
1.5. Original Components

The project consisted of three components as follows:

Component A: Housing Assistance (US$68.8 million). NEHRP would finance housing
reconstruction through the transfer of a housing cash grant of either Rs325,000 for a fully
damaged house or Rs100,000 for a partly damaged house to eligible beneficiaries. It
would transfer the housing cash grant to the joint bank accounts of selected households in
four tranches for the fully damaged housing cash grant category and two tranches in the
case of a partly damaged house. The pace of installments would be performance-based
and the beneficiary would be allowed a period of four months to complete construction.

NEHRP would select divisions and villages for participation based on a ranking system2,
taking into account: (i) case load of damaged housing stock; (ii) case load of returnees;
(iii) ethnic sensitivity while cognizant that certain villages suffered disproportionate
damage; (iv) extent of mine clearance; and (v) where available North East Provincial
Council (NEPC) vulnerability and poverty maps. It would determine the number of
grants per village based on: (i) caseload of returnees; and (ii) damaged housing stock.
Subsequent to the selection of villages and the apportioning of grants, the North East
Housing Reconstruction Unit (NEHRU) would undertake a Housing Damage Assessment
and Social Verification Survey in the selected villages to determine eligible beneficiaries
and prioritize them. A potential beneficiary must meet four eligibility criteria ( main
beneficiary permanently settled in village, regularized land title, income of less than Rs.
2,500 and a conflict damaged house to be considered for the housing assistance).

Component B: Capacity Building and Monitoring (US$2.72 million). NEHRP would
include a comprehensive technical assistance program to ensure smooth implementation.
To this end, the Bank would support the following sub-components:

      Land Dispute Resolution. The program would support the establishment of multi-
       disciplinary mobile Land Task Forces (LTFs) in each district for nine months on
       a contractual basis and the related operating expenditures.
      Skills Training for Construction Labor. NEHRP would support the training of
       1,200 masons and carpenters to bridge the acute shortage of skilled construction
       labor in the North East. The training courses would run for four months in each
       training site, and would consist of classroom training and supervised on-the-job
       training.


2The 3-step selection process consisted of: (1) initial allocation of houses across districts based on housing
damage assessment; (2) village selection within each district bases on ranking according to mainly quantifiable
established criteria; (3) beneficiary ranking within each selected village, based on established largely quantifiable
criteria. All were entered into the database and subjected to review by CSIA




                                                          3
     Support for Partner Organizations3 would ensure that the partner organizations
      were made cognizant of their roles and responsibilities in carrying out their
      construction function through three-day workshops to be held in each district.
     Study for Housing Finance would finance a study examining the feasibility of a
      new housing finance mechanisms in the North East.
     Technical Assistance for Program Implementation would provide studies and
      consultancies to support program implementation. It included: (a)
      Communication Campaign to ensure transparency; (b) Continuous Social Impact
      Assessment (CSIA) which would facilitate the articulation of community
      perceptions, undertake third party monitoring of village and beneficiary selection,
      review grievances resolution process, document wider social impact through and
      provide feedback on the mobilization of resources; (c) Follow-up Environmental
        Impact Assessment (EIA) would ensure proper management of the environmental
        dimensions of the program; (d) Technical Audit of Civil Works which would ensure that
        construction complied with developed technical standards; (e) Technical Assistance (TA)
        to NEHRU for the set up and operations of a Management Information System (MIS).

Component C: Program Management (US$4.7 million). This component included
program management and implementation support for NEHRP.

     Program Management and Supervision at the Provincial Level and by District
      and Divisional Secretaries which would cover staff costs, incremental operating
      costs and goods.
     Program Implementation by the Partner Organizations. It was expected that
      20% of the fully damaged houses would be contracted to the Partner
      Organizations (POs) by the beneficiaries.

1.6. Revised Components

The components were not revised.

1.7. Other significant changes

(i) Additional Financing. The Bank approved US$43 million in AF which became
effective on November 10, 2008. The AF was required because there were no available
funds under the parent project to meet the requested caseload. The AF credit aimed at
reconstructing 13,615 more houses in the North and East using the same criteria as the
NEHRP parent project. The houses to be reconstructed were distributed across the eight
districts in proportion to the incidence of conflict-damages.

The AF supported the following activities under the three components of the parent
project:


3
 Expected partners at preparation was EC, UNDP, and KfW. However, during implementation, only EC
was the Bank partner for this project.


                                                4
   Housing Assistance (IDA: US$ 40.2 million): Activities included rebuilding 13,615
    houses.
   Housing Technical Support and Monitoring (IDA: US$ 2.1 million). Activities
    consisted of the training of construction workers, a communications campaign, a
    CSIA, Environment Assessment, Technical Audit and Beneficiary Eligibility Audit.
   Program Management (IDA: 0.7 million and Government: US$ 0.7 million): This
    component supported project administration. It would finance the operational
    expenditure of NEHRU, the NEHRU District Program Units and NEHRU staff at the
    divisional level.

(ii) Changes in grant amount and ratio of fully damaged to partly damaged houses. As
mentioned in footnote 1, the Government increased the cash grant from Rs.250,000 to
Rs.325,000 in May 2007, at the time of mid-term review of the project, and changed the ratio of
fully damaged to partly damaged houses from initial estimate of 80:20 to 95:5 which was actually
observed on the ground and resulted in increase in the number of houses requiring Rs 325,000. .

(iii) Project Schedule. The closing date of the project was extended once for a period of
two and a half years from June 30, 2009 to December 31, 2011 to accommodate the
activities under the AF.

(iv) Funding allocations. During implementation there were two reallocations, one in
April 2010 and the other in November 2010.

       First reallocation: The 'Unallocated Category‟ amount of US$733,800 was
        reallocated in order to: (a) expand skills training program in the Northern
        Districts; (b) expand environmental mitigation programs (tree planting in the
        constructed houses); and (iii) build more housing units in the Northern Districts.

       Second reallocation: The undisbursed funds under the Unallocated Category were
        reallocated for: (a) housing constructions in the newly resettled areas in the
        Northern Province; (b) scaling up skills training in the hard-hit districts during the
        war; and (iii) protecting the environment by planting trees in the areas where trees
        were cut for the use of timber in housing construction.

(v) Changes in implementation arrangements. Based on the Supreme Court‟s ruling in
October 2006 to de-link the North and the East, the two provinces were administered
separately since then. The Government then designated the Ministry of Nation Building
(MoNB) to oversee NEHRP and requested the Bank to amend the Development Credit
Agreement and cancel the Project Agreement. The impact of this de-merger on day to
day implementation and management was minimal, given the nature of activities, fund
flow and implementation structures of NEHRP.




                                               5
2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1. Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project Background. The Government's Assessment of Needs in the Conflict Affected
Areas prepared with the support of the Asian Development Bank (ADB), the Bank and
the United Nations (UN) in May, 2003; and the document „Preparing for Transition in Sri
Lanka: the Contribution of the Multilateral Group of June, 2004‟ had highlighted support
for humanitarian relief, human development, economic infrastructure and capacity
building. The ADB focused on the rehabilitation of economic infrastructure - i.e. power,
highways, ports and large reservoirs. The UN agencies focused on humanitarian relief,
human development - i.e. education and health - and capacity building. There was no
large scale housing program in the North East despite the need. The Government
requested the Bank‟s financial support, given its ability to support reconstruction, and
target vulnerable people in remote villages in the North East as demonstrated in other
Bank-financed projects.

The EC had initially made arrangements to co-finance NEHRP with additional funding of
US$ 21.7 million equivalent. The EC committed €6.0 million (US$7.5 million
equivalent) up front for the reconstruction of 3,514 houses. In December 2007 the EC
committed another €10 million (US$14.2 equivalent) for the reconstruction of additional
5,000 houses in the North and East.

Selection of villages and beneficiaries within each village were need-based, using
objective and quantifiable criteria, which were essentially without any special
consideration for ethinc background and which were agreed between the Bank and the
Government, as outlined both in the Project Appraisal Document and Operational Manual.
These criteria fully supported the poverty elements of the project. The criteria enabled a
ranking both of villages and of individual households according to housing damage,
displacement and poverty need. Selections were done in a transparent manner which
involved the communities, the Village Rehabilitation Committee (VRC) members and a
Community Based Organization (CBO) representative supported by the village
headman/woman called Grama Niladari.

Assessment of quality at entry: The ICR team has rated the quality at entry to be
Satisfactory. for the following reasons:

        The North East Provincial Council used a US$ 1.5 million Project Preparation
         Facility (PPF) to finance: (i) a pilot housing damage assessment and social
         verification survey and EIA in 29 villages; (ii) a pilot housing initiative; and (iii)
         pilot training of skilled construction workers. The housing pilot initiated in July
         2004 entailed the reconstruction of 860 houses in the eight districts of the North
         East.



                                               6
       To identify the social impacts, a Social Impact Assessment (SIA) was undertaken
        in the course of the pilot. Several of the recommendations of this SIA were
        incorporated into program design. A continuous process of social impact analysis
        were scheduled to be commissioned for the duration of the program to ensure that
        social issues were promptly and adequately addressed.

       Two land surveys were commissioned during the course of preparation to
        determine the nature and scale of land related issues that would likely to be
        encountered as part of the program.

       A Social Safeguards Framework was prepared and cleared with the Bank. This
        included guidelines to prepare a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), if needed at a
        future date.

       The key environmental issue identified with regard to the program was possible
        unsustainable harvesting of natural resources as construction material, particularly
        timber, sand and clay.

       Proper mechanisms were incorporated into program design to ensure that
        unsustainable resource extraction practices were not permitted.

       A number of alternatives were considered in arriving at the chosen design.

Other highlights of the project design included:

   The “Home-Owner-Driven? concept of the housing component proved to be
    extremely successful and “Best Practice? in housing construction in the country.
    Beneficiaries‟ direct involvement in planning, decision making, and hands-on
    implementation of the project significantly enhanced “ownership?. This aspect of the
    project design was aimed at improving effectiveness and efficiency of the
    implementation.

   The inclusion of Dedicated Technical Officers and Engineers at the District level
    provided ongoing assistance to the beneficiaries with the technical requirements of
    the housing construction and ensure more hands-on supervision and quality control.

   The project design focused on improving transparency of information gathering,
    public awareness and clarity and quantification of eligibility criteria, which lent
    credibility to the process. The pilot provided the initial framework for that process

   The Continuous Social Impact Assessment was       an excellent Third Party Monitoring
    tool that served multiple purposes, generating    data on a full range of appropriate
    issues and indicators, the results of which        were used in many ways, from
    understanding field conditions to reviewing        selection procedures and thereby
    withstanding political pressure.

   Environmental aspects were well integrated into the design at the project and sub-

                                             7
    project level. An EIA was undertaken during the course of the pilot based on which
    an Environmental Management Framework (EMF) was prepared during project
    preparation. The process of undertaking site specific environmental assessment, the
    use of a questionnaire, monitoring arrangements were well described in the PAD.

   The project design clearly spelled out the criteria to be used for the selection of
    villages and specific families to benefit under the Reconstruction Program. It also
    included an elaborate grievance redress arrangement, with suitable representation of
    community members, to resolve complaints relating to determination of land
    ownership or the selection of beneficiaries.

   In addition to the external audit by the Auditor General, a strengthened internal
    auditing function in the implementing agency was included to carry out quarterly
    audits of the Program. These arrangements provided reasonable safeguards to prevent
    fraud and corruption in the Project.

   The FM arrangements for the Project were based on the government‟s Financial
    Regulations. Moreover, the staff of NEHRU, the project‟s implementing agency had
    prior experience with World Bank projects. The project design included suitable
    additions to the accounting staff of NEHRU and the strengthening of the Internal
    Audit Department of North East Provincial Council which was in charge of doing
    quarterly internal audit of the Project. These arrangements in the Project Design were
    adequate to provide sound financial management of the project.

Soundness of sector analysis. As part of project preparation, the sector background was
studied, main sector issues were analyzed in depth, and government strategies to deal
with these issues were also considered.

Lessons from the pilot taken into account. The following lessons learned from the pilot
were incorporated into the design of NEHRP:

       Program Area Selection: In the absence of a village profile, the district
        administration used its discretion in village selection. Under NEHRP, village
        selection was based on quantifiable criteria on extent of damage, caseload of
        returnees, ethnic sensitivity and vulnerability, in addition to some non-
        quantifiable criteria.

     Beneficiary Selection: Beneficiaries were eligible for selection based on extent of
      housing damage, income, and land ownership as determined through a survey.
      They were prioritized through a quantifiable vulnerability weighting system. The
      pilot showed that income reporting was insufficiently selective, vulnerability
      criteria required increased stringency and that reported data necessitated cross-
      checking to ensure an honest reflection of household status. As a result of this,
      NEHRP‟s beneficiary selection process was modified and adopted to local
      requirements. During implementation, the scope for exercising discretion in
      selection was further reduced to make the selection process even more robust.


                                            8
     Construction Approach: The pilot tested both homeowner-driven and donor-
      driven construction approaches. Beneficiaries largely preferred the former, except
      for the most vulnerable who lacked the means. Program design focused on a
      homeowner approach, but allowed beneficiaries to opt into the partner approach.

     Land Ownership: The pilot recognized that many beneficiaries were excluded
      from participation owing to inadequate land title documentation. A sub-
      component on land-related dispute resolution was designed to address land issues
      as they related to the program.

     Grievance Redressal: The pilot grievance redressal system lacked transparency,
      and ended at the divisional level. Beneficiaries subsequently had little right of
      appeal. Taking this experience into account, the system designed for NEHRP
      included divisional, district, and provincial grievance redress procedures. It was
      followed by a substantive communication campaign which ensured broad
      awareness of and easy access to the system.

       Resource Requirement Plan: The pilot demonstrated that the purchase of goods
        and services was a challenge, and that individual procurement of construction
        materials sometimes had negative environmental effects. The pilot also had
        positive cost and environmental results when beneficiaries resorted to bulk
        procurement through co-operative societies, VRCs, and Divisional Secretaries.
        NEHRP would facilitate optional bulk procurement for beneficiaries.

       Quality Control and Reporting: There was an absence of well-defined technical
        audit guidelines, and technical officers were not always competent. NEHRP
        allowed for the design of technical audit guidelines, a third party technical audit
        of construction, and the hiring of consultants for technical support should
        government staff not be able to perform that function.

Risk Assessment. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) had identified several
potential risks and mitigation measures, as deemed appropriate at that time, which were
included in the project design.

Adequacy of participatory processes. Stakeholder consultation was undertaken at every
stage of planning and assessing environmental safeguards. While the EMF had included
consultations with district officials, NGOs and other donor funded projects operating in
the North and East, the pilot EIA and the village-specific Environmental Impact
Questionnaire (EIQs) had extensive consultations at the village level.

The Information, Education, and Communication (IEC) strategy followed a very effective
and interactive community consultation campaign to ensure that it was a two-way
approach, involved a continuous process, and targeted to the entire community. The
activities included awareness programs; exposure visits; cultural events; school
competition; providing detailed pamphlets on all aspects of the project in three languages,
and TV and Radio advertisements.

                                            9
Adequacy of government commitment. At the time of project preparation, the
government demonstrated a high level of commitment to the objectives of the project.
The high level of borrower involvement, ownership and commitment was demonstrated
through the substantial participation of the three tier administration and of the population
in target communities.

2.2. Implementation

The project implementation was carried out at a time when the conflict was at its peak in
the North-East. Even in the face of safety and security challenges, the government,
NEHRU, and the Bank‟s task team operated efficiently and tried their best to find
feasible solutions to overcome the challenges resulting from the long standing conflict.

The project was not restructured and no changes were made to the design. The Bank
conducted a Mid Term Review (MTR) in April 2007. The MTR introduced some
changes to the housing program due to inflation, which increased the cost of construction
material and labor. The original NEHRP Core House, defined as a 500 square feet, two
locked rooms, a kitchen, a toilet and plastered internal and external walls, appeared to
require a higher investment than the grant of Rs 250,000 initially approved. However,
the price of construction materials varied widely across districts. The NEHRP Core
House was redefined to consist of just one locked room, a kitchen, and internal plastering.
It was also proposed by the Bank-EC team that the cash grant for a fully destroyed house
to be raised from Rs 250,000 to Rs 325,000. This was subsequently approved by the
GOSL.

The following factors affected project implementation:

(i) Land Issues. About 1100 families were excluded at the final selection process because
of their inability to provide sufficient documents to prove land ownership. The grievance
redress mechanism maintained by the NEHRU also indicated that the main reason for
rejection of a large number of poor families from housing cash grant was the lack of
documentation of ownership of the land on which the house would be built.

(ii) Unavailability of material and shortage of labor slowed down progress of housing
construction in the North, especially in Jaffna district. Further, on December 26, 2004 Sri
Lanka was hit by the tsunami and the reconstruction process that followed significantly
increased the demand for raw materials in the country. In addition, the recurrent conflict
and associated mobility constraints had reduced labor availability. Many masons had
moved elsewhere leaving the North East with fewer construction workers.

(iii) High case load for Technical Officers led to insufficient time for quality supervision.
Further, technical officers did not always have adequate knowledge of construction
practice while the training of masons and carpenters was not sufficient to meet the need
for skilled labor. The fluid security situation contributed to reduce the mobility of
technical officers and delayed report submission.

                                             10
(iv) Shifting construction activities to safer areas. The Government had to scale back
NEHRP to safer areas as an interim measure due to renewed hostilities, material
shortages and the inability to supervise construction on the ground. This led to deferred
implementation in Kilinochchi and Mullaitivu districts and certain divisions in Mannar
and Vavuniya.

 (v) Multiple displacements of families. Many families who lived in Kilinoichchi and
Mullaithivu districts were subject to forceful evacuation or had to flee from their homes
several times in order to escape from the cross fires between the LTTE and Sri Lankan
military. Some of them attempted to build houses despite the war conditions but more
often they had to leave from their homes and therefore they were never able to complete
their houses or get the full benefit of the housing cash grant. Under the last phase of the
housing cash grant, many of these multiple displaced families could not get assistance
due to their inability to prove the land ownership because they ran away, leaving all the
deeds and other important documents.

It is worth mentioning that in spite of the above challenges, the project succeeded in
achieving its objective because of the commitment and dedication on the part of the Bank
as well as the Government.

2.3. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design. Indicators were developed to monitor the progress of the project. NEHRU
was assigned responsibility for monitoring outcomes, impacts, outputs, and finances. The
output monitoring covered both the number of houses constructed and the stages of
construction. The latter was crucial for the phased disbursement of the housing cash
grant.

The M&E system was designed so that NEHRP would have several mechanisms to
monitor progress, including: (i) a Continuous Social Impact Assessment (CSIA) to
monitor social impact, review beneficiary selection process, outcomes and outputs of the
program using quantitative and qualitative methodologies; (ii) Village level
Environmental Impact Questionnaire (EIQ) survey to identify and monitor environmental
impacts from resource extraction. Results would be used to design mitigation measures;
(iii) district and divisional secretaries would submit technical reports on program outputs;
(iv) a third party technical audit of construction would be carried out by independent
experts to monitor engineering standards; and (v) monitoring arrangements included
plans for intensive supervision by the Bank.

M&E implementation. NEHRU collected data on a regular basis according to the
indicators developed during project preparation. The MIS included financial, physical,
and operational data with detailed information on each NEHRP beneficiary i.e. name,
location, socio-economic profile, family details, housing data, land ownership etc. The
user-friendly MIS was operational in all eight districts. It included modules on village
selection, beneficiary selection, grievance redressal, construction progress and financial

                                            11
management. Information from three independent sources i.e. (i) CSIA; (ii) Independent
Technical Audit; and (iii) EIA was incorporated. Field staff collected data using
standardized forms, and the District Program Units processed the data and submitted it to
NEHRU each week. These data were closely monitored and the actual figures were
compared with the target values.

M&E utilization. Appropriate data collected by NEHRU was evaluated and used for
decision-making on certain activities. For example: (i) beneficiaries were paid
installments after verification of physical progress made on their house construction; (ii)
problem areas such as lack of materials, for construction were identified and appropriate
decisions were made to resolve them. For instance, when there was shortage of tiles in
Jaffna, asbestos roofing was allowed to be used as an exception in order to complete the
houses; and (iii) because of moving conflicts and wars, construction was shifted to those
areas which were safe and had no conflicts.

2.4. Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard issues. The project dealt with reconstructing houses that had been damaged
and destroyed as a result of the war. As such, it was not causing any land use changes in
the region that would have serious consequences on the environment. The key safeguard
concern under NEHRP was the off-site adverse environmental impacts related to
unsustainable exploitation of construction material such as sand, clay, rocks, coral and
timber. The project contributed to the increased demand of these materials in the region
and as a consequence increased mining and extraction in numerous sites throughout the
region as well as in the rest of the country. The on-site environmental impacts of housing
re-construction, as implemented under the project, were not considered a serious threat.

During the pilot project, a detailed EIA was carried out and based on its findings an EIQ
was designed for the project. During implementation, every village selected for funding
under the project was subjected to a rapid environmental assessment (using the EIQ)
based on which a village specific environmental management plan was prepared. This
assessment was undertaken at the start of each implementation phase by the technical
staff of the relevant divisional secretariats and local authorities. The completed EIQs
were then reviewed by the project environmental officers and cleared. It was only upon
environmental clearance that social mobilization and housing construction activities in
the villages commenced.

Fiduciary issues. The project complied with fiduciary covenants during implementation.
Internal control arrangements were in place, and adequate financial management system
and records were maintained.

2.5. Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

(a) Transition arrangements. The houses constructed under the project have been
transferred to beneficiaries, and hence have become private assets. Individual house
owners are responsible for the maintenance of their houses.

                                            12
(b) Follow-on project. No follow-on project is currently scheduled. However, the Bank
is working with the Ministry of Economic Development, and participating in donor
meetings to keep track of the developments such as the Indian Housing Project which is
currently under implementation.
(c) Future Impact Evaluation. It will be important to conduct an impact evaluation after
three years of project closing in order to assess the sustainability of the project‟s
achievements as well as the socio economic impact emanating from this project.


3.        Assessment of Outcomes

3.1. Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objective of the project remains relevant to the country‟s social and economic
development. It is also timely and appropriate to the present needs of Sri Lanka, and is
consistent with the Bank's current CAS for Sri Lanka. The CAS highlights the need to
invest in development where the Bank is better positioned to address the causes and
consequences of Sri Lanka‟s conflict. The Bank would use the economic instruments at
its disposal to enable an end to the economic causes caused by the conflict to the extent
that it can. It is doing so with an emphasis on reconciliation and development in the
conflict-affected areas.

Further, under the Bank‟s Country Partnership Strategy 4(CPS) for the period FY 2013-
2016, the World Bank Group will continue to support improvements in living
standards and social inclusion in order to ensure the benefits of rapid growth and
higher quality services are broadly shared. Activities in this area already include three
ongoing livelihood projects in the conflict-affected North and East regions of the country
which include restoration of basic infrastructures, housing construction, and cash for
work as well as support for starting new businesses.

3.2. Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Satisfactory. The project was successful in achieving its objective. The following
achievements demonstrate the direct correlation between the project‟s outputs and their
resulting outcomes.

(i) Number of housing units constructed within specified time and allocated budget
(Parent Project and Additional Financing).

At the time of project closing, out of 50061 target number of houses under the project, a
total of 49,507 houses (99%) had been completed in eight districts (five in the Northern


4
    Report No. 66286-LK, dated April 17, 2012


                                                13
Province and three in the Eastern Province). A total of 572 houses were not completed for
various reasons on the part of beneficiaries such as: not being resettled; displaced to
India; land sold with partially constructed houses; internally displaced; unresolved land
problems and disputes; and death. It is estimated that these completed houses would be
covering about 13% of total need for housing in the North and East.

Table 1: Physical progress in the overall Housing Program as of December 31, 2011

                                          Houses                                                  Number Of Houses
           Donor
                                          planned                   Construction                  Construction   Percent                          Cancelled
                                         (Number)                   commenced                      Completed   Completed
International Development                 41,547                      41,547                         40975        98.90                                 572
Association– IDA Initial and
additional funding

European Commission (1and                    8,532                          8,532                         8,532                       100.00
2 Tranches)
Total                                       50,079                          50079                         49507                                         572




Table 2: Houses completed and houses dropped as of December 31, 2011




                                                                                                              Installments Refunded
                                                     of December 31, 2011




                                                                                                               and Construction Did
                                                     Houses Completed as




                                                                                    Dropped for Various
                                                                                     Houses Started but
                               adjustments, as of
                                Allocation after

                                 October 2010




                                                                                                                                               % of Houses
                                                                                                                                               Completed
                                                                                                                     not Start
                                                                                         Reasons


      Districts




Jaffna                                13,342                13,269                              73                                    8                99.5%
Killinochchi                           5,502                 5,335                             167                                    4                97.1%
Mullaithivu                            2,920                 2,920                                                                                    100.0%
Vavuniya                               2,143                 2,142                                 1                                                   99.9%
Mannar                                 3,473                 3,431                                42                                                   98.8%
Total North                           27,392                27,097                             282                                12                   90.0%
Trincomalee                            6,513                 6,394                             119                                                     98.1%
Batticaloa                            11,593                11,441                             170                                                     98.5%
Ampara                                 4,575                 4,575                                                                                    100.0%
Total East                            22,699                22,410                             289                                                     98.7%
TOTAL                                 50,061                49,507                             572                                12                   99.0%




                                                                     14
(ii) Number of homeowners with regularized land titles as part of NEHRP.

An uncontested land title was a precondition for qualifying as beneficiary for a housing
grant. By the end of the project, 45,000 new title deeds were issued under NEHRP.

(iii) Percentage of cash grants disbursed within the allocated four year construction
period.

NEHRP was a large scale housing project, and more than 95% of the fund was allocated
to the housing. This indicator could not be followed for each and every house. But
collectively, the quarterly disbursement was pretty much the indicator for disbursement
on housing cash grant.

3.3. Efficiency

The benefits from the NEHRP include both direct and indirect benefits:

Direct benefits: The direct benefits included:
   a. Incremental value of the housing stocks itself from the reconstruction of 49,507
       houses with direct housing assistance to the IDP families.
   b. Increased wage income of trained construction workers as a result of their
       improved skills
Indirect benefits: The indirect benefits from the project included:
   c. Multiplier impacts of wage income of construction workers generated from the
       housing reconstruction program
   d. Benefits from additional economic activities, through multiplier effect, resulting
       from linked businesses including suppliers of construction goods and services ,
       other operating inputs and employment opportunities created in the services sector
       including transportation and sales
   e. Benefits from resolution of land disputes and rehabilitation and settlement of
       internally displaced families/persons due to the conflict
   f. With a permanent house, beneficiaries reported that they could easier go and
       search for employment since their possession were secured in a locked house as
       opposed to a temporary shelter
   g. Psychological and social value of having a decent home
This analysis accounted for the benefits listed under (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e). However,
the ICR team has not attempted economic valuation of the /quantification of the
psychological and social value of having a decent home, which is high in Sri Lanka.

Economic efficiency and sensitivity analysis
The analysis relates the project costs (Annex-3-Table 1) to the benefits from the
economic value stream of benefits due to the project. The benefits stream included the
incremental value of the reconstructed houses under the project, economy-wide multiplier
impacts of wage incomes of construction expenditures, increase in wage incomes as a

                                           15
result of improved skills of workers trained as part of the project and benefits from
resolution of land disputes and rehabilitation and settlement of internally displaced
families/persons due to the conflict. The values of houses were found to appreciate over
the years in the project area. Based on discussions with the project staff, the rate of
appreciation is expected at an annual rate of 9 percent for the next 15 years. In addition,
it is assumed that the trained construction workers will earn additional wage incomes for
the next 15 years of their productive life.

The net present value and the Benefit: Cost ratios based on the cost stream and the
estimated benefit stream from the whole project are presented in Table 4. The actual
costs and the itemized benefit streams from the project are presented in Annex 3.

Table 3: Net present value and benefit: cost rations
Annex 3-Table 4: Net present value and benefit: cost ratios
                              8% discount rate      10 % discount rate   12 % discount rate
Net Present value (Million    23,000                22,420               19,103
Rs)
Benefit: Cost ratio           2.14                 2.05                  1.91

The above table shows that the project yielded modest returns measured in terms of
Benefit: Cost ratio and Net Present Value of cost and benefit streams. At 8% rate of
interest the Benefit: Cost ratio was 2.14, which implies that a dollar invested in the
project yielded $2.1 as returns. At a higher discount rate of 12 percent, the project
returned a Benefit: Cost ratio of 1.91.

The ICR team could not identify significant risks to affect the project outcomes and the
benefits from the project. Hence, only a sensitivity analysis of the results to different
discount rates has been conducted. The analysis showed that even at a discount rate of 12
percent, the project yielded a Benefit:Cost ratio of 1.91.

The PAD did provide an economic analysis for the whole project. The Net Present Value
and Benefit: Cost ratios presented in the PAD cover only the benefits from income
generation activities undertaken by the beneficiaries and the benefits from training
construction workers. According to the estimates presented in the PAD the expected
benefits from income generating activities supported by the project will have a Net
Present Value ranging from $2100 to $3600 per worker over a period of 15 years at 8
percent discount rate. Similarly, the PAD estimated NPV of the additional income from
training of construction workers at $4470 per worker over the 15 year period (8 %
discount rate). Since these estimates relate only to the above two components our results
could not be compared with the results in the PAD and hence a comparison is not
attempted.




                                              16
3.4. Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory.

As explained in Section 3.2, 3.3, and 3.5, the project has many satisfactory achievements:

     Out of 50,061 target number of houses under the project, a total of 49,507 houses
      (99%) were completed in eight districts.
     45,000 new title deeds were issued.
     With a permanent house, it has become easier for beneficiaries to search for
      employment because their possessions can be secured in a locked house as
      opposed to a temporary shelter.
     Reconstruction of a permanent house enabled families to marry of their daughters
      more easily, because daughters are supposed to get a house as dowry The project
      contributed to boosting the sense of pride and self-esteem of beneficiaries
      because of their having own house, and as a reflection of this new sense, they are
      participating in social events and community based organizations in villages.
Thus, based on the many achievements of the project, the overall outcome is rated as
Satisfactory.

3.5. Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty Impacts.

      Anecdotal evidence shows that, because of the skills development program,
       skilled and semi-skilled workers at village levels are working as masons and
       carpenters and their earning capacity has increased.

      There was an increase in household income from home gardening and cultivating
       fruits and vegetables, as many households have started these activities after
       reconstruction of their houses under the project.

      Because the beneficiaries own their houses, they are in a better position to apply
       for bank loans to start businesses and thereby increase their income potential.

Gender Aspects. NEHRP empowered women as demonstrated by the following
examples:

      The role of women in household decision-making has increased. This may have
       been facilitated by the joint bank accounts under NEHRP. Further, the Land Task
       Force ensured that land title was issued in the name of both husband and wife
       where ever possible.


                                           17
      Women also participated in the VRCs. Women headed 51 out of the 495 VRCs in
       Phase 3 villages. This represented a doubling from Phase 1. Further, some VRCs
       had a 30% female membership.
      Special attention was given to women during selection of skill programs in
       masonry and carpentry. Special training was given to women, especially in
       Mulaitivu district. They were also given tools pack for doing work. Because of
       these acquired skills their income levels have gone up and it has also boosted their
       confidence to pursue their profession.

Social Development.

      Reconstruction of a permanent house has enabled families to marry of their
       daughters more easily as daughters are supposed to get a house as dowry at the
       time of marriage.
      Project contributed to boosting the sense of pride and self-esteem of beneficiaries
       because of their having own house, and as a reflection of this new sense, they are
       participating in social events and community based organizations in villages.
      The project facilitated widow remarriage and re-entry into social life otherwise
       impossible for dispossessed single women.
      Because children are now having better ambience and facility to study at home,
       they are performing better at school. In addition, the number of children attending
       schools has increased.
      Other social benefits include investment in home gardening, livestock, poultry,
       home-based retail or tailoring and increased physical security in contrast to a
       thatched hut.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project resulted in a substantial institutional development impact as demonstrated by
the following:

Skill Training Program. Skill training was very successful in helping the beneficiaries
find labor during housing construction period; minimizing the construction time; and
maintaining the standard and quality of the NEHRP housing reconstruction. The program
has also helped create skilled and semi-skilled labor at the village level amongst the
beneficiaries to help their neighbors and more vulnerable families (including widows,
elderly, and handicapped). For example, NEHRP trained over 1284 masons and 617
carpenters across project areas and provided short term training on NEHRP housing
requirements to over 1,000 traditional construction workers. With this approach, the
impact on the youth and unemployed villagers has been highly positive, and there will
also be a long term impact on the northern and eastern parts of Sri Lanka.

Land Task Force: The Land Task Force was established in March 2005 to review and
resolve disputed land ownership and unclear title. This has been an important activity, as
proof of land ownership was a precondition for being eligible for housing grant. The


                                           18
resolution of land disputes provided security of tenure and 45,000 new title deeds were
issued under NEHRP.

Third Party Technical Audit: NEHRP provided funding to support an independent and
continuous 3rd party audit of the quality of civil work construction. A consulting firm
was contracted to carry out the audit of civil works on a sample basis. This audit
included monitoring of technical engineering standards, and number of houses
constructed in a phased manner. NEHRU benefited from this audit to improve on the
construction quality over the phases of the project.

CSIA: The CSIA was an independent 3rd party monitoring of the village and beneficiary
selection process, which also provided important information on broader social issues,
reviewed the grievance redressal, land disputes, and gender issues through periodic
reports. This was a very important exercise, as it gave opportunity to the task team and
NEHRU to provide timely support and take remedial measures to mitigate risks.

Grievance Redressal Institutions: To ensure transparency and fairness of the process,
NEHRP supported the Government to establish a Divisional Grievance Redressal
Committee to hear complaints regarding the selection process. A District Grievance
Redressal Committee heard grievances from individuals dissatisfied at the ruling of the
Divisional Grievance Committee. In case the individual concerned was still dissatisfied
with his/her exclusion (based on the decision of the District Committee) he/she had the
option to submit a grievance to NEHRU for consideration of the Chief Secretary of the
NEPC. The ruling of the Chief Secretary was final. The Grievance Redress mechanism
was supported by an awareness campaign, and was overall functioning well. .

VRCs and Beneficiary Rehabilitation Committees (BRCs). VRCs contributed to the
beneficiary selection process, acted as local representative at divisional level monitoring
committees, and functioned as a platform to voice community feedback at the village
level. VRCs and BRCs have introduced microfinance system for the members for
utilizing the amounts for livelihood activities and start their own businesses and create
employment opportunities.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Positive

      Overwhelming response from donors, including NGOs, as grants for housing
       construction was unexpected at project preparation. Due to the positive
       experience with NEHRP, donors like EC and India decided to contribute for
       housing construction in the conflict-affected areas.



                                            19
        The success of NEHRP led to replication of home-owner driven strategy to other
         Bank-financed projects in Sri Lanka i.e. the Tsunami Emergency Recovery Credit
         (TERC) and the Puttalam Housing Project.

        Because of the project, the Government initiated several programs to improve
         infrastructural facilities in terms of building roads and electricity connections to
         those villages where houses were constructed.

        The Government has started applying NEHRP standards as the national standards
         for the post-housing reconstruction in the North after 2009.

Negative

        Beneficiaries were often unable to complete construction of their houses within
         the allocated housing grant envelope. They frequently utilized their savings and
         incurred debts. This was exacerbated when many of them built houses bigger than
         the standard NEHRP specification of 500 sq. ft for a house.

        Half way through the implementation, house construction had to be suspended at
         Killinoichi, Mulaitivu, and Jaffna because of the escalation of war in those areas.
         Construction started in the newly resettled areas in the North only after the
         conflict was over and cleaning up of land mines in those places. Consequently,
         many houses remained incomplete at the time of project closing.

3.6. Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A

4.       Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

As the houses constructed under the project have been transferred to beneficiaries, and
hence have become private assets, individual house owners are responsible for the
maintenance of their houses. Further, the Bank is also working with the Ministry of
Economic Development, and participating in donor meetings to keep track of the
developments such as the Indian Housing Project and NGO housing projects which are
currently under implementation.

On the other hand, as mentioned in the Borrower‟s Evaluation Report, the following risks
could affect the sustainability of the achievements of the project:

(i) Excessive borrowings beyond the capacity to repay

(ii) Lack of essential social and economic infrastructures


                                             20
(iii) Capacity building and training of skilled staff

(iv). Environmental concerns of sustainability

For details, see Annex 7 - Borrower‟s Evaluation Report

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1. Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

QAG‟s QALP-I panel had rated the quality of design and focus on development
effectiveness as Highly Satisfactory;

According to the ICR team has rated the Bank's performance in the identification,
preparation, and appraisal of the project was Satisfactory. During preparation and
appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project design and all major
relevant aspects, such as technical, financial, economic, and institutional, including
procurement and financial management. A number of alternatives were considered for
the project design. In addition, major risk factors and lessons learned from other earlier
projects in the social sector were considered and incorporated into the project design.

Project preparation was carried out with an adequate number of specialists who provided
the technical skill mix necessary to address sector concerns and a good project design.
The Bank provided adequate resources in terms of staff weeks and dollar amount to
ensure quality preparation and appraisal work. The project was consistent with the CAS
and government priorities in the sector at the time. The Bank had a consistently good
working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

QAG‟s QALP-I panel had rated the quality of Bank supervision, supervision inputs and
processes, and candor and realism of ISRs, and quality of implementation as Satisfactory,
and the likelihood of achieving DOs as Highly Satisfactory/Likely.

According to the ICR team, the Bank's performance during the implementation of the
project was satisfactory. Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated, and the
project was adequately and intensively supervised, and closely monitored. The task
team‟s reporting on supervision was satisfactory. The team prepared Aide-Memoires
regularly and alerted the Government and NEHRU to problems with project execution
and facilitated remedies in a timely manner, in conformity with Bank procedures. Further,

                                              21
the Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) realistically rated the performance of the
project both in terms of achievement of development objectives and project
implementation. The task team also monitored safeguard and fiduciary compliances.

Bank‟s procurement and financial management staff worked with the NEHRU staff to
explain the rules and procedures to be applied during project implementation, based on
the Loan and Project Agreement. The task team also carried out MTR in April 2007.

As QAG panel had observed, various levels of management performed well while
providing cross-checks and complementary expertise; there was continued rapid response
to implementation issues; project implementation was suspended in those districts where
appropriate conditions were not met; and implementation schedule was adhered to by the
task team. Further, continued Social Impact Monitoring was used to feed back
information for implementation improvement as well as to ensure transparency, and
perception of transparency to the beneficiary selection process. Strict attention to
impartiality resulted in a significant positive impact on gender relations because of the
dual ownership requirement and promotion of women‟s participation.

It is worth pointing out that the task team carried out supervision missions regularly at a
time when the conflict was at its peak. Even in the face of safety and security challenges,
the team operated efficiently and conducted ongoing risk mitigation measures to ensure
that the project was implemented smoothly.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the Bank performance during lending phase and supervision as discussed above,
overall Bank Performance is rated as Satisfactory.

5.2. Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

As mentioned in Section 2.1, the government showed its commitment to the objective of
the project at the time of project preparation, and maintained this commitment throughout
implementation. The government officials worked closely with the Bank's project team
on a continual basis, and cooperated fully with the task team. Appropriate levels of
review and approval were usually in place; financial accountability and follow-up was
observed, and expenditures were duly authorized before they were incurred; and
documentation was maintained properly for periodic review. The project did not suffer
from any counterpart funding problems, as the GOSL took timely corrective measures
and made appropriate budget provisions. However, towards the end of the project, there
were frequent changes of project directors and other senior staff of NEHRU, which
adversely affected implementation
                                            22
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

NEHRU was very effective in carrying out all aspects of project management, such as
financial management, procurement arrangements, reporting activities, and
disbursements:

Financial Management Review. An Internal Audit Unit was established in the Project
Unit which closely monitored and controlled the implementation progress on continuous
basis. Annual Project Audits were carried out, and was up-to-date with satisfactory result.
Financial control of NEHRP was further strengthened by independent Fixed Asset
Verification of equipments and vehicles. NEHRU adopted accounting policies laid out in
the Financial and Administrative Regulations of the GoSL and project-specific
procedures laid out in the Project‟s Financial Management Procedures Manual.

NEHRU followed the Central Government‟s Financial Regulations (FRs).
Administration procedures for following the Government FRs and detailed project
Financial Management arrangements were specified in the NEHRP Financial
Management Manual. The Auditor General of Sri Lanka carried out the audit of NEHRP
annually. Overall, Financial Management performance of NEHRP was satisfactory
throughout the project.

Procurement for NEHRP was carried out in accordance with the „Guidelines:
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits‟; „Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers‟, and the provisions stipulated in
the Development Credit Agreement Signed between GOSL and the Bank. For each
contract to be financed under the NEHRP, the Government and IDA agreed upon the
procurement method, the consultant selection method, the need for prequalification,
estimated cost, the requirements for prior review and the time frame. This was described
in the Procurement Plan prepared at the initial stage of the project and periodically
reviewed and updated annually or as required by NEHRU and the Bank Procurement
Specialists to reflect the actual implementation needs and improvements in institutional
capacity. Procurement of resources (construction material and labor) was done directly by
the beneficiaries for their housing construction, without any middle men.

Environmental and Social Safeguards. Environmental issues of NEHRP were monitored
by NEHRU and the Bank team during project preparation and implementation. NEHRU
established an Environmental Unit staffed with district level Environmental Officers.
Environmental issues of NEHRP were assessed through an EIQ for each selected village
and designed based on the findings of a full scale EIA carried out in the pilot phase in
2004. The release of funds for construction in a given village took place after the EIQ
was completed and cleared. Each completed EIQ was evaluated by the Environmental
Unit at NEHRU and rated for its quality based on accuracy, relevance and presentation of

                                           23
data/information. There was no case of land acquisition, and due diligence was applied in
terms of the CSIA, selection process, social inclusion and gender issues.

Reporting Arrangements. NEHRU submitted all required quarterly and annual reports in
a timely manner. These reports were informative, and provided valuable feedback on
how the project was progressing covering all project activities. The status of
performance indicators were incorporated in all progress reports and served as valuable
input to Bank supervision mission reports.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

In light of the Government and NEHRU performance as discussed above, the overall
performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

6.       Lessons Learned

        An „owner driven‟ housing reconstruction program is the most preferred strategic
         option, even in war damaged and displaced societies, if adequate institutional and
         financial supports are made available. As the house owners themselves will be
         staying in the houses after reconstruction, they will be more interested and
         committed to ensure that a high quality is maintained in construction.

        For a large scale housing program to be successful, important factors to be
         considered are: (i) a simple project design; (ii) appropriate administrative
         arrangements, at the village, division, district and province; (iii) appropriate
         coordination among these stakeholders; and (iv) a decentralized supervision of the
         project by technical officers and other sectoral staff at the village/division level.
         In addition, the arrangement to pay the housing cash grant money directly to
         beneficiaries, giving them responsibility, linking physical progress with financial
         payments, and avoiding middle men are also critical factors for the success of a
         project.

        Third party technical audits at the household level will help in improving
         construction activities and quality. For this project, the use of CSIA was very
         useful as a third party monitoring, due to the fact that the project comprised
         private goods where a transparent beneficiary selection process was essential,
         especially in a politically highly sensitive context.

        Capacity building should be given greater importance, especially in backward
         areas such as NEHRP project area. Not only should the capacity of the project
         office be built but also of partner agencies who are mandated to enforce
         regulations and/or monitor activities.



                                              24
      As a policy the NEHRP had promoted tiles as the roofing material but most of the
       beneficiaries could afford only a roof with asbestos sheets with the given housing
       cash grant (as the cost involved is about 40% less on the roof). With the escalation
       of costs, of both materials and labor, beneficiaries had found it increasingly
       difficult to complete the core house within the given budget. As a result, the
       NEHRU as well as the Bank had to agree to the use of asbestos sheets in order to
       facilitate project implementation and also to ensure beneficiaries won‟t be pushed
       into obtaining loans to build the roof.

      It is very likely that for a project like NEHRP with a duration of about four years,
       there will be price escalations and the consequent cost over runs. In order to cope
       with these increases, there should be adequate flexibility to adjust the housing
       cash grant amount.

      Close monitoring and supervision by technical officers and engineers contributed
       to the high quality and completion of houses within the time frame. They went out
       of their way to help beneficiaries to resolve shortage of construction materials,
       and even worked beyond their working hours.

      Frequent changes in the project team, especially the project director should be
       avoided to ensure continuity in implementation. The ad hoc turnover and
       deployment of key staff would result in a lack of continuity and loss of
       institutional memory in the project team, leading to the top and senior
       management not being adequately familiar with the project. To avoid such
       situations, the government will need to take special care to see that, as far as
       possible, the project staff is retained during the project period. In particular, PMU
       staff should not be moved out for political reasons. In case any staff resigns or
       retires from service, the government should try its best to fill up the vacant
       position without much delay.

      As QAG had observed, the project was successful because it was beneficiary-led,
       used local capacity, and generated private goods of immediate benefit to the
       beneficiaries, who were then able to leverage the equity for further social and
       economic benefits.

      The pilot grievance redress system lacked transparency, and ended at the
       divisional level. Beneficiaries subsequently had little right of appeal. Taking this
       experience into account, the system designed for NEHRP included divisional,
       district, and provincial grievance redress procedures. It was followed by a
       substantive communication campaign, which ensured broad awareness of and
       easy access to the system. It is a good feature that the project learned from a pilot
       component and accordingly made adjustments.

For additional lessons, see Annex 7 - Borrower‟s Evaluation Report




                                            25
7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

N/A

(b) Cofinanciers

An audit was carried out by the EC and shared with the Bank. No major issues were
identified and project implementation was considered satisfactory. The Bank prepared a
„Specific Completion Report‟ for the EC funded component and shared with the co-
financier. The report was found to be of good quality and endorsed by the EC.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

N/A




                                         26
                         Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                          Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                             Percentage of
          Components                                      Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                                 Appraisal
                                                             millions)
Housing                                   108.99               110.45
Capacity Building                           4.82                  6.35
Project Management                          5.37                  3.90




            Total Baseline Cost           119.20                 120.66
Physical Contingencies
                                            0.00                   0.00               0.00
Price Contingencies
                                            0.00                   0.00               0.00
             Total Project Costs          119.20                 120.66
Project Preparation Fund                    0.00                   0.00                .00
Front-end fee IBRD                          0.00                   0.00                .00
     Total Financing Required             119.20                 120.66


                                        (b) Financing

                                                        Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                         Type of        Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                       Cofinancing       (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                        millions)   millions)
Borrower                                                  2.70        2.70        .00
International Development
                                                         75.00            75.00              .00
Association (IDA)
                                                                    43.00
IDA- Additional Financing




                                              27
                                    Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component A: Housing Assistance: The project supported the return of displaced
population in the North and East, and regularize land title problems and enabled them to
resume economic activity through construction.

The physical progress achieved is shown in Table 2 and housing allocation is given in
Table 3

    Table 1: Physical progress in the overall Housing Program as of December 31, 2011
                                          Houses                                                  Number Of Houses
           Donor
                                          planned                   Construction                  Construction   Percent                          Cancelled
                                         (Number)                   commenced                      Completed   Completed
International Development                 41,547                      41,547                         40975        98.90                                 572
Association– IDA Initial and
additional funding

European Commission (1 , 2                   8,532                          8,532                         8,532                       100.00
Tranche) – EC
Total                                       50,061                          50079                         49507                                         572




Table 2: Housing Allocation as of December 31, 2011

                                                                                                              Installments Refunded
                                                     of December 31, 2011




                                                                                                               and Construction Did
                                                     Houses Completed as




                                                                                    Dropped for Various
                                                                                     Houses Started but
                               adjustments, as of
                                Allocation after

                                 October 2010




                                                                                                                                               % of Houses
                                                                                                                                               Completed
                                                                                                                     not Start
                                                                                         Reasons




      Districts




Jaffna                                13,342                13,269                              73                                    8                99.5%
Killinochchi                           5,502                 5,335                             167                                    4                97.1%
Mullaithivu                            2,920                 2,920                                                                                    100.0%
Vavuniya                               2,143                 2,142                               1                                                     99.9%
Mannar                                 3,473                 3,431                              42                                                     98.8%
Total North                           27,392                27,097                             282                                12                   90.0%
Trincomalee                            6,513                 6,394                             119                                                     98.1%
Batticaloa                            11,593                11,441                             170                                                     98.5%
Ampara                                 4,575                 4,575                                                                                    100.0%
Total East                            22,699                22,410                             289                                                     98.7%
TOTAL                                 50,061                49,507                             572                                12                   99.0%




                                                                     28
Component B: Capacity Building and Monitoring

Skill Training Program was conducted in all eight districts. Table 3 provides details of
different training courses undertaken

TABLE 3: Summary of training courses completed under Skill Training program

Training Course                                                          Target         Achievement
                                                                        (Persons)        (Persons)
Masonry Training                                                          1550             1284
Carpentry Training                                                         752               617
Aluminum Fabrication, house wiring & plumbing Training *                   100               100
* Conducted only in Jaffna

Land Task Force - The Land Task Force was established in March 2005 to review and
resolve disputed land ownership and unclear title. This was an important activity, as
proof of land ownership was one of the criteria for eligibility for housing grant. The
resolution of land disputes provided security of tenure and enabled many to participate in
NEHRP.

Third Party Technical Audit - NEHRP provided funding to support an independent and
continuous 3rd party audit of the quality of civil work construction. A consulting firm
was contracted to carry out the audit of civil works on sample basis. This audit included
monitoring of technical engineering standards, and number of houses constructed in a
phased manner. The NEHRU benefited from this audit to improve on the construction
quality over the phases of the project.

Continuous Social Impact Assessment (CSIA) - The CSIA was a an independent 3rd party
verification of the housing program which provided important information on the social
issues, selection process, grievance redressal, land disputes, and gender issues through
periodic reports. A consulting firm was contracted to conduct the independent CSIA (on
sample basis) under NEHRP and special reports on request. This had been very
important exercise, as it identified issues under the project; and had given opportunity to
the team and NEHRU to provide timely support and take remedial measures to mitigate
risk.

Grievance Redressal Institutions - NEHRP provided housing support cash grants to the
poorest and most vulnerable and only 14% of the conflict-affected population in the
North and East. Therefore, a set of selection criteria had to be in place and agreed with
the Government. To ensure transparency and fairness of the process, the NEHRP
supported the Government to establish a Divisional Grievance Redressal Committee to
hear complaints regarding the selection process.

                                            29
The Information, Education, and Communication (IEC) - www.nehrp.com – The NEHRP
also supported a wide scale and effective campaign which was intended to educate
beneficiaries to: (i) understand NEHRP and its selection process; (ii) know the procedure
in case of grievances; and (iii) obtain technical guidance. The IEC was a successful
exercise to make the IDPs (beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries) fully aware of the project
objectives and selection criteria. Strong and pro-active communication campaign was
instrumental in the project success. A Website was developed by NEHRU to further
disseminate information and to enhance transparency.

Component C: Program Management

The GOSL established NEHRU with the staff at provincial, district, and divisional levels
to carry out the day to day implementation of this large scale housing program. NEHRU
set up its head office in Trincomalee District and a satellite office in Batticaoloa to be
close to the project areas. NEHRU was staffed with Engineers, a large number of
Technical Officers at divisional level, Social Development Specialists, Environmental
Specialists, Information-Education Communication Specialists, Management Information
System Experts, and other required staff to effectively implement this large scale housing
program.

There was a set of agreed criteria for village and beneficiary selection. The NEHRU
scored and ranked each village and the beneficiaries (within selected village) according to
these criteria.

Management Information System (MIS) – To ensure that NEHRP operations and
financing were properly collected, recorded and shared with the stakeholders, NEHRU
developed a comprehensive MIS with the help of its in-house IT Specialists and trained
District Project Unit (DPU) staff on the use of this database. The information system
included a comprehensive database on financial, physical and operational activities at the
village, divisional and district level with detailed information for each beneficiary (name,
location, socio-economic profile, family context, housing condition, land ownership).
The field staff collected the relevant data using standardized forms. The data collected
was in turn submitted to the DPUs. The DPUs processed this and submitted the
information to NEHRU each week. The identification of villages and beneficiaries was
based on this data. The database also included information on the phases of construction
and payment of installments. The MIS was used to generate reports for the MoNB and
IDA. Data was also collected for other activities i.e. skills training, IEC activity, land
task force and project management.




                                            30
                      Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1. Introduction
NEHRP facilitated reconstruction 46,000houses in the North East over a four-year period
through the provision of housing support cash grants. The housing reconstruction
facilitated return of displaced populations in the northeast ad regularization of land title to
targeted beneficiaries. The project also contributed to training of skilled construction
workers, consequently allowing the resumption of economic activity in the war
devastated region through increased construction activity. The project had three main
components which generated economic benefits: Housing assistance for reconstruction of
46,000 houses and training of skilled workers; capacity building and monitoring; and
program management.

2. Project costs and outputs
The actual project costs over the eight year period from 2004 through 2011 are presented
in Table 1. The total project costs was US $148 million of which IDA contributed US
$120.9 million, EU contributed US $ 21 million and the rest $6.4 million by the GOSL.

                Table 1: NEHRP-Project costs by years
                           Table 1: NEHRP-Project costs by years
                        Million US $
                        IDA          EU          GOSL            Total
          2004                  1.15          -               -                1.15
          2005                 13.02          -            0.62               13.64
          2006                 17.87      1.37             0.75               19.99
          2007                 18.46      3.08             0.94               22.48
          2008                 18.46      4.39             0.91               23.76
          2009                  6.66     12.16             2.22               21.03
          2010                 21.73          -            0.45               22.17
          2011                 23.59          -            0.51               24.09
          Total               120.93     21.00             6.39              148.31

The project envisaged reconstruction of houses and training workers in construction, settlement
of land disputes in addition to implementation support. The project outputs were the
reconstructed houses, training offered to the skilled workers and the improved skills of
construction workers in addition to some capacity building through implementation
support. The numbers of houses constructed, by year, in the different districts are
presented in Table 2 below.




                                              31
Table 2: Number of houses reconstructed in different districts
   District     Allocation 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008                  2009 2010 2011     Total
1 Jaffna            13,342 125 1,088         630 1,333 2,045         2,142   962 4,944 13,269
2 Kilinochchi        5,502 100      501        3       7                      93 4,631 5,335
3 Mullaitivu         2,920 100      513                                      123   2184 2,920
4 Vavuniya           2,143 120      295      907      22       301     495            2 2,142
5 Mannar             3,473 100        66     727               782     246   466 1.044 3,431
Northern            27,380 545 2,463 2,267 1,362 3,128               2,883 1,644 12,805 27,097
Province
6 Trincomalee 6,513         115 666        1,697 1,324 892           1,050 28       622       6,394
7 Batticaloa    11,611      100 471        660     1,390 4,476       3,439 750      155       11,221
8 Ampara        4,575       100 309        786     164     2,354     862                      4,575
Eastern         22,699      315 1,446 3,143 2,878 7,722              5,351 778      777       22,410
province
Total           50,079      860 3,909 5,410 4,240 10,850             8,234 2,422 13,582 49.507

In addition to the construction works the project also facilitated training to laborers in
masonry and construction works. The numbers of workers trained in the different
districts as part of the project are presented in Table 3.

Table 3: Number of workers trained in masonry and carpentry
                                    Masonry          Carpentry              Total
1      Jaffna                                   151                   144               295
2      Kilinochchi                               94                    32               126
3      Mullaitivu                               325                    52               377
4      Vavuniya                                  76                    25               101
5      Mannar                                   156                                     156
6      Trincomalee                              115                   115               230
7      Batticaloa                               297                   199               496
8      Amparai                                   70                    50               120
       Total                                  1,284                   617             1,901

In addition the training in masonry and carpentry about 346 workers were also trained in
concrete block casting. The workers who were trained participated in the reconstruction
programs. Thus the training programs while reducing the costs of reconstruction also
improved their skills and experience and thus increased their current and potential future
wage earnings.

3. Project benefits
The benefits from the NEHRP include both direct and indirect benefits:

Direct benefits: The direct benefits include
        Incremental value of the housing stocks itself from the reconstruction of
          49,507 houses with direct housing assistance to the IDP and non-IDP families;
        Increased wage income of trained construction workers as a result of their
          improved skills

                                            32
Indirect benefits: The indirect benefits from the project included
        Multiplier impacts of wage income of construction workers generated from
           the housing reconstruction program;
        Benefits from additional economic activities, through multiplier effect,
           resulting from linked businesses including suppliers of construction goods and
           services , other operating inputs and employment opportunities created in the
           services sector including transportation and sales;
   h. Benefits from resolution of land disputes and rehabilitation and settlement of
       internally displaced families/persons due to the conflict.
   i. Psychological and social value of having a decent home
This analysis accounted for the benefits listed under (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e). However,
we have not attempted economic valuation of the /quantification of the psychological and
social value of having a decent home, which is high in Sri Lanka.

Methodology and assumptions:

The ICR team has made the following assumptions for valuation of the economic benefits
from the project:

Value of reconstructed houses: As the houses are reconstructed the value of the houses
increase. The value added of the reconstructed houses is one of the major direct benefits
of the project. The value added is estimated by average of value of the house before the
project to the value after the project. Based on discussions with the project engineers and
the rural households the values before and after reconstruction are estimated at Rs. 325
and Rs. 700 thousand respectively. These values are used to estimate the aggregate value
of houses reconstructed under the project. In addition, the values of the houses
reconstructed also appreciate over time in the project area at an annual rate of 9 percent.

Increased wage income of trained construction workers as a result of their improved
skills: The skills training improved the skills of construction workers and as a result
increased their wage earnings by average of $ 400 per annum. The workers trained as
part of the project was assumed to earn the higher wages over a productive life of 15
years.

Multiplier impacts of wage income of construction workers and the additional
economic activities as a result of the housing reconstruction program: In order to
compute the multiplier impacts of wage income and construction expenditures a
multiplier of 1.4 was used in this analysis5.


5
  The multiplier was arrived at as 1/(1-x*y*z) where x is the percentage of new income the consumer and
business will spend; y is the percentage of consumer expenditures made in the state/region; and z is the
percentage of business expenditure made in the state/region. We have assumed that the values of x, y and z
to be 0.8, 0.9 and 0.4 respectively (Income multipliers in Economic Impact Analysis, Guide Z-108, New
Mexico State University. www.aces.nmsu.ed )


                                                   33
Benefits from resolution of land disputes and rehabilitation and settlement of
internally displaced families/persons due to the conflict: The analysis assumes that
the beneficiaries with land and housing ownership will have better livelihood and can
generate higher income by investing in income generation activities. Based on data
collected from the project area, the estimated increase in income from investment in
income generating activities is Rs. 24,000 per year.

4. Economic efficiency and sensitivity analysis
The analysis relates the project costs (Annex-3-Table 1) to the benefits from the
economic value stream of benefits due to the project. The benefits stream included the
incremental value of the reconstructed houses with the project, economy-wide multiplier
impacts of wage incomes of construction expenditures, increase in wage incomes as a
result of improved skills of trained workers trained as part of the project and benefits
from resolution of land disputes and rehabilitation and settlement of internally displaced
families/persons due to the conflict. The values of the houses were found to appreciate in
values over the years in the project area. Based on discussions with the project staff, we
have assumed the rate of appreciation at an annual rate of 9 percent for the next 15 years.
In addition to the appreciation in value of the houses, as discussed above as a result of the
training imparted, the construction workers will earn increased wage incomes from their
improved skills. It is assumed that these trained workers will earn additional wage
incomes for the next 15 years of their productive life.

The net present value and the Benefit: Cost ratios based on the cost stream and the
estimated benefit stream from the whole project are presented in Table 4.

Table 4: Net present value and benefit: Cost ratios
                           8% discount rate          10 % discount rate       12 % discount rate
Net Present value (Million 23,000                    22,420                   19,103
Rs)
Benefit: Cost ratio        2.14                      2.05                     1.91

The above table shows that the project yielded modest returns measured in terms of
Benefit: Cost ratio and Net Present Value of cost and benefit streams. At 8% rate of
interest the Benefit: Cost ratio was 2.14, which implies that a dollar invested in the
project yielded $2.1 as returns. At a higher discount rate of 12 percent the project
returned a Benefit: Cost ratio of 1.91.

The ICR team could not identify significant risks to affect the project outcomes and the benefits
from the project. Hence, only a sensitivity analysis of the results to different discount rates has
been conducted. The analysis showed that even at a discount rate of 12 percent, the project
yielded a Benefit:Cost ratio of 1.91.

5. Conclusions



                                                34
It may be noted that the analysis did not include the psychological and social value of
owning a decent home. Such social values could be high in a country like Srilanka that
has long been affected by internal conflict and populations have been internally displaced
for long periods of time.

The main project benefit was creation of private assets in the form of reconstructed
houses whose values appreciate over time. The possible risks include resumption of
conflict and the loss of values, the chances of which is which are very negligible/Since
this project envisages construction of private assets in the form of houses and settlement
of property disputes, there are no maintenance or recurring expenses for the government
after the project was closed.

The PAD did provide an economic analysis for the whole project. The Net Present Value and
Benefit: Cost ratios presented in the PAD cover only the benefits from income generation
activities undertaken by the beneficiaries and the benefits from training construction workers.
According to the estimates presented in the PAD the expected benefits from income generating
activities supported by the project will have a Net Present Value ranging from $2100 to $3600
per worker over a period of 15 years at 8 percent discount rate. Similarly, the PAD estimated
NPV of the additional income from training of construction workers at $4470 per worker over the
15 year period (8 % discount rate). Since these estimates relate only to the above two
components our results could not be compared with the results in the PAD and hence a
comparison is not attempted.




                                              35
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Supervision/ICR
                           Representative/Country Manager,   EACSB
Naresh Duraiswamy          Former TTL                                 Task management

                                                             GFDRR Task management/
Raja Rehan Arshad          Lead Disaster Management
                                                                   Disaster
                           Specialist, former TTL
                                                                   Management
Farahnaz Azoor            Program Assistant                  SASDO Program Assistance
Deepal Fernando           Senior Procurement Specialist      ECSO2 Procurement
                          Senior Urban Development
Soraya Goga                                                  MNSUR Urban Development
                          Specialist
Pushya Mitra Gunawardhana Consultant                         SARFM Consultant
                                                                   Task management/
Shideh Hadian              Senior Infrastructure Economist   SASDU Infrastructure
                                                                   Economics
Nina Pauliina Kataja       Consultant                        SACSL Consultant
                           Disaster Risk Management                Disaster Risk
Haris Khan                                                   SASDU
                           Specialist                              Management
Lilian MacArthur           Program Assistant                 SASDO Program Assistance
                           Senior Social Development               Social
Asta Olesen                                                  SASDS
                           Specialist                              Development
Sumbo Adeyemo              Program Assistant                 SASDO Program Assistance
Nadeera Rajapakse          Consultant                        SASDI Environment
Eashwary Ramachandran      Operations Analyst                SASDI Operations
Sunethra Chandrika
                           Procurement Specialist            SARPS Procurement
Samarakoon
                                                                   Financial
Jiwanka B. Wickramasinghe Sr Financial Management Specialist SARFM
                                                                   Management
                                                                   Financial
Supul Chamikara Wijesinghe Financial Management Specialist   SARFM
                                                                   Management
Samantha Prasada
                           Water & Sanitation Specialist     SASDU Water & Sanitation
Wijesundera

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                          USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                 No. of staff weeks       (including travel and
                                                          consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                                                 115.04
  FY05                                                                 176.66

                                           36
  FY06                            0.00
  FY07                            0.00
  FY08                            0.00
                  Total:        291.70
Supervision/ICR
 FY04                             0.00
 FY05                            58.59
 FY06                           188.61
 FY07                           101.39
 FY08                           115.47
 FY09                           112.85
 FY10                            93.17
 FY11                            97.67
 FY12                            78.70
                  Total:        846.45




                           37
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                      38
       Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


1. INTRODUCTION

The main objective of the North East Housing Reconstruction Project (NEHRP) was to
provide improved and affordable housing units to the poorest conflict-affected families in
this region who meet the accepted vulnerability criteria. In this respect, to assist them to
revive their living conditions, NEHRP has supported for there construction of 40,307
fully damaged houses and repair of 9,200 partly damaged houses, over a seven year
period commencing from the last quarter of 2004.

North East Housing Reconstruction Programme (NEHRP) was set up with the assistance
of World Bank, and Sri Lankan Government to assist the vulnerable war affected families
in the North and East Provinces. Eligible families were selected from all the Eight
Districts in North and East Provinces using a stringent and transparent NEHRP criteria.
Financial grants were made for the reconstruction of houses at the rate of Rs: 250,000 for
fully damage houses and Rs: 100,000 for partly damage houses under Phase I & II in
2005 and 2006. This grant was increased to Rs: 325,000 for fully damage houses under
phase III, IV & V due to claims made by the beneficiaries. By adopting “Home Owner
Driven Concept?, 49,507 houses have been successfully completed as at 31.12.2011. A
Pilot housing Project was carried out covering 860 Houses in all eight Districts in North
and East Provinces in 2004

The entire project involved U.S$ 146.91 of which 81% funded by the International
Development Association (IDA) and 14% by the European Commission (EC), while the
balance 5% was funded by the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL). Commencing from the
Pilot Project of 2004/05, a total of 4,370 villages in the North and East have been covered,
out of a planned total of 5,874. Mode of assistance was to entail a cash grant paid in five
installments under the “Owner Driven? concept.

The project has been terminated in December, 2011 as planned, and this report is being
presented as the “Borrower Evaluation Report? for the NEHRP Project.

As requested by, Anna Wellenstein, Acting Country Director Sri Lanka and Maldives
and Shideh Hadian Task Team Leader, NEHRP, aspects concerned with the
Outcome/Achievements; Outputs/Deliverables; Factors affecting implementation;
Transition Arrangements for sustenance; Risks associated with sustainability; Bank
Performance; Borrower‟s Performance as well as Lessons learnt from the Project, are
being briefly discussed in this report.

Detailed field survey is needed for such comprehensive, but realistic assessments.
However, due to lack of time, only four villages were visited, two in Jaffna district and
two in Kilinochchi, in a three days program and altogether, 37 randomly selected
beneficiaries were interviewed. Further, consultations with the Addl. District secretary,

                                            39
Divisional Secretaries of these two districts and the Project staff also were very valuable.
Inspections tour in Mullaitivu district without meeting beneficiaries was also done. All
project documents and records needed were studied and other interrelated documents
were also obtained on line. Data collected through all these means is presented in this
report, together with our observations. (Refer annexed photographs I - V)

It is highly recommended to carry out a comprehensive survey about 12- 14 months after
project closure, in order to have a clear understanding of its strengths and weakness, and
appropriate corrective measures taken in order to sustain the benefits the project has
bestowed.

2. PROJECT OUTCOME/ACHIEVEMENTS.

Information gathered on the outcome of this project by all these procedures is being
presented in log frame format given in Table 1 and needs no further elucidation.

TABLE 1: PROJECT OUTCOME/ACHIEVEMENTS (Presented in the Log Frame
Format)
Component 1
Intervention logic: 50,079 targeted beneficiaries build houses in the allotted amount of time, and to technical
standards specified by the program.
  Objectively verifiable                   Means of                              Assumptions
   results indicators                     verification
19,623 housing units                 NEHRP Final             Inadequate       beneficiary    capacity     mainly
reconstructed within 6 month         Progress report as      contributed to low level of success (39.2%),
and within allocated budget          at 31.12.2011           though other factors such as difficulties in
                                                             obtaining materials and errors in beneficiary
                                                             selection, also would have been partly responsible
Objectively verifiable                     Means of                              Assumptions
       results indicators                 verification
Percentage of grants                 NEHRP Financial         Material purchase – 3 weeks – 97% The
disbursed within 6 months            records                 program was over-
and within each                                              Foundation           – 6 weeks – 76% ambitious
disbursement phase                                           and could
                                                             Super structure      – 9 weeks – 43% have been
                                                             planned for a
                                                             Completion          – 6 weeks – 37% longer
                                                             period.
Grievances redressed                 NEHRP records           No significant delay and 80% settled. The
completed within 15 day                                      procedure adopted
                                                             for grievance redressed is acceptable
Targeted beneficiaries (%)           NEHRP records           Percentage of most vulnerable among the targeted
including women headed                                       beneficiaries is over 90% and included woman
&disabled)                                                   headed and
                                                             Disabled. A very satisfactory status
Beneficiaries who had their          NEHRP records           About 70% of those who appealed had their
Land claim normalized (%)                                    claims normalized,
                                                             indicating special harmony between work
                                                             schedules of LTFs

                                                40
                                                             And program interventions.
Component 2
Intervention logic: Adequate capacity available to support housing reconstruction process
,901 trained skilled             NEHRP     Approximately 26 skilled construction workers per house.
construction workers              record   Though appears adequate, timely availability of such workers
assisting in NEHRP                         has been a constraint for such large scale constructions Hence,
construction                               more training of skilled workers will be beneficial
Resolved land disputes           NEHRP     The total of 1,712 land dispute cases received of which 811
through mobile land task          record   were resolved (47% success), denoting constraints in the
force at the district level                System that require further investigation.
Completion of study for          NEHRP     Government use the information to design next steps in
proposed North East              financial Housing policy framework.
housing finance institution record
Component 3
Intervention logic: All actors (NEHRU, district program units, divisional officers) aware of roles and
Responsibilities and comply accordingly.
Incidents of                Programming-   1,327 cases of bottlenecks were reported of which 746 were
bottlenecks                 Management     Solved (56% success). Further improved needed.
Implementation (%)          system
Timeliness of               Project record Satisfactory
reporting
Homeowner                   Project record Out of the 49,507 beneficiaries, 100% of them complied with the
compliance                                 Technical standards.
With tech. standards
(%)



3. PROJECT OUTPUTS/DELIVERABLES

3.1. Physical and financial progress in house construction
The core concept of this Housing program was that, reconstruction will support the return
of displaced population in the North and East, regularize land title problems and enable
them to resume economic activity through construction. The physical progress achieved
is shown in Table 2 and the financial progress is in Table 3.

TABLE 2: Physical progress in the overall Housing Program (Refer annexed IV & V)
                                  Houses                      Number Of Houses
              Donor
                                 planned     Construction   Construction    Percent               Cancelled
                                (Number)     commenced       Completed     Completed
International Development         41,547        41,547         40975         98.90                   572
Association– IDA Initial and
additional funding
European Commiss,(1 , 2              8,532          8,532            8,532           100.00
Tranch) – EC
Total                                50,079         50079            49507                           572




                                              41
Vulnerability has been the criteria for selection of villages and beneficiaries and the
targeted 50,079 Houses (Table 2) were expected to cover 13.5% of total need for housing
in the North and East. The Different funding sources are in Table 3 and a total of US$146
million was made available.


TABLE 3: Financial progress in the overall Housing Program
Funding source                                     Original           Present          Disbursement
                                                   approved            value
                                                    amount          (31.12.2011    Total        Percent of
                                                 (US$ in Mn)             )        (US$ in      the Present
                                                                    (US$ in Mn     Mn)            Value
International Development Association – IDA              118.00          118.65     118.65          100.00
Initial and additional funding
European Commission (1 & 2 Tranch) – EC                   22..05          21.74     20.55              94.50
Government of Sri Lanka GOSL including EC com               6.52           6.52      5.97              90.65
Total                                                    146.57          146.91    145.17


The overall financial performance indicates disbursements between 90% to 100%.for
different funding sources, a remarkable achievement with cancellations of only 572
houses (1.1%) for various reasons. Non completion of houses attributed to several factors,
including not being resettled, displaced to India, land sold with partially constructed
houses, internally displaced, unresolved land problems and disputes and death of
beneficiary and is justifiable.

The overall achievement of villages undertaken for house construction (Table 4) was
26% with the lowest of 6.3% in Mullaitivu, probably due to the effect of intense conflict
situation and displacement on a massive scale. Reconstruction in some villages was
undertaken for more than one phase.


TABLE 4: Details of villages undertaken for construction
Parameter                                                District

                         Jaffna Kilinochchi Mullai          Vavuni Mannar Trinc         Batic    Ampar
Total No. of villages    1,440     370           625        505        587      645     857      876
in districts
Villages total No        385     141    39       121        121        161      192     296      169
undertaken
Achievement (%)           27.3   38.1 6.3        24.0       24.0       27.4     29.8    34.5     19.3
Total No of villages: 5874      Total No of villages undertaken: 1,504      Mean
achievement %: 25.8




                                            42
3.2. Progress in Skill Training

 Skill Training Programme was conducted in all Districts and the total allocation made
available was Rs.30.90 million of which only Rs.1.893 million remained unspent. Details
of this component are in Table 5.


TABLE 5: Details of Skill Training carried out under NEHRP
                                                        District
Parameter             Jaffna Kilinochchi Mullai Mannar NEHRU Trinc Batic                        Ampar
Allocation Mn (SLR)                          28.000                        2.900                30.900
Expenditure Mn (SLR)   5.027       1.239       10.408  2.366     8.716 0.042 1.290               29.007
Balance unspent Mn
                                                  0.244                            1.649         1.893
(SLR)

Table 6 provides information on different courses undertaken. The total number trained
for each course may not be sufficient to meet the demand and there is a need not only to
repeat these courses through


TABLE 6: Summary of training courses completed under Skill Training program
Training Course                                                  Target No                 Achievement
Masonry Training                                                       1550                    1284
Carpentry Training                                                      752                     617
Aluminum Fabrication, house wiring & plumbing Training *                100                     100
* Conducted only in Jaffna

Alternate donor funding, but also for further additions such as in basic computer skills
and information technology essential for children who have completed O/L and A/L
studies, but without opportunities to enter universities for higher education. Most
beneficiaries interviewed, indicated that they were not aware of these training programs.

3.3 Environmental safeguards framework

The integrated Environmental Safeguards Framework executed by NEHRP included
processing of an Impact Assessment questionnaire, a tree planting program involving
distribution of 151,641 seedlings, Environmental Awareness Program for 933 persons
including beneficiaries, VRC as well as school students and a training for the staff of
Divisional Secretariats involving 19 members from all 8 districts. Fund allocation was
Rs.12.65 million but only 85,538 were issued in all the districts at a total cost of Rs.9.071
million. It is recommended that this program also continued through alternate donor
funding

Under the program to mitigate harmful conditions to environment, the formation of
village level Environmental Protection groups and building their capacity, monitoring of
environmental conditions as well as monitoring/maintenance of seedlings planted has
been carried out. It is important to continue such awareness programs, uninterrupted, but

                                             43
tree planting campaigns should be restricted to the optimum planting period for each crop
in order to reduce their mortality rate. It is appreciable that the project has also
encouraged beneficiaries to plant four types of seedlings in their home gardens.

3.4. Grievances received
Altogether, 6,891 grievances were received (only for phase V) of which only 1,075
(16%) were accepted and the balance 84% were rejected.

3.5. Condition of most vulnerable beneficiaries
The most vulnerable beneficiaries who include 1,405 widows, 304 separatists, 25 orphans
and 169 Disabled persons have been identified and further assistance to this group of
1,903 recommended.

3.6. Unresolved land disputes and problems
It is commendable that as many land dispute problems as possible have been resolved
through LTF.

4. FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION
It should be noted that almost every activity carried out under the project will have an
effect on it,
Though those mentioned below will have far reaching consequences and are very briefly
discussed:

4.1. Insufficient grant
A sum of 325,000/= was insufficient of grant to complete the construction of 500 square
feet houses. Due to this, few houses in some Districts (about 10%) were partially
completed according to NEHRP criteria (Core house system).

 4.2. Beneficiary selection
The selection of villages and beneficiaries, strictly based on the selection criteria is very
important and should be carried out without any bias. Besides, though confined to the
vulnerable group, those
Selected should have adequate capacity and motivation to complete the task.

Proper beneficiary selection is the corner stone of success and should be completed as
early as possible, preferably using even additional inputs, but correctly, and any delays or
errors will not only slow down the entire project, but also bring in further difficulties and
complications which may not be correctable subsequently. Perusal of project records of
NEHRP and the field survey denote that though the scoring System is desirable, a few
problems and wrong selections have occurred which should be avoided in future.

4.3. Coordination among stakeholders
Proper coordination among District/Divisional staff, project staff, beneficiaries and other
stake holders will have deeper implications on the achievement of objectives, but there
appears to be no serious problem in coordination of activities among the various stake
holders.

                                             44
4.4. Easy availability of building materials and skilled labor
Greater requirements of building material for projects of this nature may result in
procurement /
Transport delays and requires special attention. Our investigation indicated that
availability and
Restrictions in transport of sand has delayed the construction process to some extent and
it is the same with availability of skilled labor.

4.5. Technical supervision
Project records show inadequacy of Technical Officers (TO) to supervise the construction
program and has resulted in not only delays but also poor quality of construction in some
cases that were rectified subsequently. Responsibility for each TO should be reduced not
to exceed 130 houses for monitoring and supervision.

4.6. Problems associated with land ownership
Several problems in Land ownership were brought to light, but settled by the Land Task
Force.

4.7. Fund disbursement delays
Records indicate that fund disbursement has not seriously affected activities and caused
delays.

4.8 Government regulatory mechanisms and favorability of conditions
No serious delays or other ill effects have been caused by government regulations and
unfavorable
Ground situations in the North and East, especially after end of the conflict in 2009.

4.9. Other factors
The core concept of this project was not only to complete the physical structures of
houses, but also to support the return of those displaced, and also to assist them to resume
their economic activities. Hence, all factors affecting their livelihood and project
sustainability will also affect its implementation


5. TRANSITION ARRANGEMENTS FOR SUSTAINING PROJECT
ACHIEVEMENTS
The ultimate goal in any project is to ensure that its achievements are sustained after the
closure of the project itself, though it is regretful that much importance is not given to it
in many cases. The three phases of relief – recovery – stability have to be viewed
independently and in this respect, the transition from relief to recovery is a very critical
period that would decide on the fate of the project itself.
Based on the lines of United Nations Sri Lanka Post Tsunami Recovery and
Reconstruction Working Draft for December 2004 – December 2006 (UNTS), which
outlines UNs response to assist the Government of Sri Lanka to meet their priorities, the
four under-mentioned strategic areas have been identified.
1. Getting people back into their homes - Transitional and permanent structures

                                             45
2. Getting people back to work         -       Livelihoods, economic recovery and small
infrastructure,                                Fisheries, agriculture and environment.

3. Provide education, health and       -       Food security and nutrition, water and
protection to all Sanitation                   sanitation, health and Education
4. Upgrade national Infrastructure     -       Capacity Development.

These four components in respect of the NEHRP project, has been adequately discussed
in this report and there is no need for repeating them. In general, the transition from relief
to recovery is a very critical, but a sensitive phase and adequate measures taken either
directly by the bank or in combination with other multilateral donors to work in
partnership with GoSL to ensure smooth transition from relief to recovery.


6. RISKS FOR SUSTAINABILITY

The principal intention of the GoSL and World Bank, in funding this project was to help
launch a housing program that would continue in ensuing years with alternate sources of
finance. The bank has indicated several other measures also in the project program, to
ensure sustainability, consequently allowing resumption of economic activity in this war
devastated region.

Due to the war, damages occurred to the houses reconstructed by the North East Housing
Reconstruction Programme (NEHRP) had fully demolished (debris) in some Division in
Mannar, Kilinochchi and Mullaitivu Districts in 2008 & 2009 and it was pointed out by
Government Agents to look into these cases for selection of beneficiaries under Phase V.
But World Bank stated that their Grant could be given only once. Hence, sustainability of
activities after closure of the project is a very important aspect and all possible measures
taken to ensure it. Major risks associated with sustainability of this project are as follows:

6.1. Betterment of livelihood, income generation and employment opportunities
The employment and occupational status of the investigated four villages are presented in
Table 7.

        Manthirimalai, remote interior farming village in Jaffna with about 70%
beneficiaries at present involved in small scale farming on leased lands and/or small
enterprises. Others are mainly employed as farm labor. Table 8 indicate that present
monthly income for about 40% of them is between Rs.5,000/- 10,000/- while for the
balance 60%, is between Rs.10,000 – 15,000/.

        Pulopallai, also is a remote, but coastal village in Kilinochchi district indicating
similar trend with about 50% in farming at present and balance involved in small
enterprises and skilled labor. The monthly income of about 70% of them at present is less
than Rs. 10,000/- (Table 8).




                                             46
TABLE 7: Employment status of sampled beneficiaries
Occupation                          Number of beneficiaries in each category

Village          Factor                  Farmer     Fishing    Samall     Skilled    Unskille   Total
                                                               enterprise            d labor
Manthirimalai    Prior to intervention      6           0          1          0          3       10
                 At present                 5           0          2          0          3       10
Pulopallai       Prior to intervention      2           2          2          2          0        8
                 At present                 5           0          1          2          0        8
Navatkuli        Prior to intervention      0           6          3          1          0       10
                 At present                 3           2          4          1          0       10
Ananthapuram     Prior to intervention      0           0          5          3          1        9
Kilinochchi      At present                 0           0          4          4          1        9


Navatkuili is also a remote coastal village in Jaffna equally poor as the other two. Prior to
the conflict situation, lagoon fishing has been the main occupation, but now due to total
loss of boats and fishing gear and a desperate need for survival, some have taken to
farming rather than fishing though the coastal saline lands are not suitable for any crop
other than rice, while a few continue with their small enterprises and skilled labor such as
carpenters and masons.

TABLE 8: Income status of sampled beneficiaries
       Mean                             Number of beneficiaries in each category
income
(Rs/month)
    Village        Factor        Less       Rs.     Rs        Rs      Morethan         Total
                                 than      5000- 10,000- 15,000- Rs 20,000
                                  Rs      10,000 15,000     20,000
                                 5,000
Manthirimalai Prior         to
                                   0         1      9          0           0            10
              intervention
              At present           0         4      6          0           0            10
Pulopallai    Prior         to
                                   3         1      2          0           2             8
              intervention
              At present           2         5      0          0           1             8
Navatkuli     Prior         to
                                   0         7      3          0           0            10
              intervention
              At present           0         5      5          0           0            10
Ananthapuram Prior          to
                                   2         2      5          0           0             9
Kilinochchi   intervention
              At present           1         1      1          5           1             9

Ananthapuram village located in the outskirts of Kilinochchi town, in sharp contrast,
indicated an Different trend. All beneficiaries from this village were in Vavuniya welfare
camps, just about 12 – 14 months back with all their property destroyed, but now show
signs of remarkable recovery with over 65% of them involved in more income generating

                                             47
small enterprises and skilled labor than farming or fishing. Also 67% of them reported
income levels of over Rs.15,000/-per month (Table8).

6.2. Excessive borrowings beyond the capacity to repay
The loan situation is shown in Table 9. Borrowing for productive purposes is beneficial
and encourages livelihood development, but for other purposes may result in harmful
effects

TABLE 9: Outstanding loan of beneficiaries
         Criteria                                            Villages

                                                   Pulo Pallai     Navatkuli      Kilinochchi
                                   Avarangal
                                                                    South        Ananthapuram
Less than Rs.100,000/-                                                                 4
Rs.100,0000/ -400,000/-                 6               5                7             5
More than Rs.400,000/-                  2               0                3             0
Total                                  10               8               10             9

As indicated in table 9, all sampled beneficiaries have outstanding loans without any
saving at all. The pattern of outstanding loan amongst the villages also show a similar
trend as the case of employment and income, with only at Ananthapuram, 40% having
less than Rs.100,000/-. Most of the loans in other villages were in the Rs.100,000/- to
400,000/- range, but at Manthirimalai and Navatkuli, 20% and 30% of beneficiaries
respectively have loans exceeding Rs.400,000/-.

The “Seetu? system of saving participated by most of them appears to be the only
consolation, which may help to settle loans in some way. These loans have been obtained
exclusively for the house construction and necessitated due to the larger houses (more
than 500 – 550 sq.ft) they have commenced. Hence, here is a need to strictly limit the
floor area in future.

In a broader sense, those in villages close to cities have better opportunities for
employment and lively hood enhancement than those in remote areas. Kilinochchi town
at present is a fast developing city with better opportunities than in remote villages and it
is in this sense that those at Ananthapuram have profited from small enterprises and
skilled labor than farming or fishing. The same trend could be safely extrapolated for the
entire project area. This aspect has to be taken into consideration in future planning and
that remote villages require more inputs, monitoring and additional help for their survival
and development.

6.3. Lack of essential social and economic infrastructures
There are several social organizations at the village level, including Rural Development
Societies, Women‟s Cooperatives, Fisheries Cooperatives, Mother Care etc in these areas
but the interaction of beneficiaries was very poor. Most beneficiaries have neither interest
nor adequate knowledge of the activities of these organizations and just consider them as
organs for lending money for their immediate needs. Even “shramadana? activities are
very low and hence, essential that they are made to understand the benefits of proper

                                             48
interaction with such social organizations. Banks and other economic infrastructure are
also quite essential for their livelihood activities and needs closer examination.
Sustainability of activities initiated by the project will certainly depend on the support
provided by such social and economic infrastructure.

6.4. Capacity building and training of skilled staff
This has already been discussed under section 3.2 & 3.3. The direct and indirect activities
connected with resettlement of over 50,000 families could involve probably twice the
number of beneficiary households, thereby necessitating adequate training for all
categories of skilled staff at periodic intervals. This aspect also will affect sustainability
and requires due consideration.

 6.5. Environmental concerns of sustainability
Degradation of environment in several ways, as it is extensively happening at present, is
also a matter of grave concern and risk for sustainability, which requires continuous
management in a proper manner. As stated in section 3.3, the importance of tree planting
campaign is stressed and it should be carried out on an annual basis. Home gardening and
social forestry should be seriously considered for future.

6.6. Follow up action
To follow up the activities indicated above, it would be essential for GoSL and the
Provincial Councils of North and East to take appropriate action directly as well as
through other national/multinational funding programs.


7. BANK PERFORMANCE

Role of the World Bank in this project are as follows:

         1. Supervision and monitoring of Project activities
Periodic visits and advice to the North East Provincial Council and the various
stakeholders about the project progress and performance, has been regularly done through
the Aide Memories of the visit of Implementation Support Mission.
         2. Procurement purchase
As per the Bank‟s guidelines, it is responsibility of the bank to review and approve
procurements of
Goods and services. The bank has carried out this responsibility very efficiently.
         3. Review of project activities
It is also the responsibility of World Bank to review project activities and progress at
times and approve project outcomes of technical assistance as well as the investment
component. This also has been carried out very efficiently.

8. BORROWER’S PERFORMANCE

Finance management was at a very satisfactory level from the commencement of
Project and this is indicated in the Aide Memories dated 24th May & 3rd June of 2011. I

                                             49
wish to point out that the ultimate target of this project is achieved with lowest project
management cost of 3.42% of the total cost of the project.
Technical supervision was successfully carried out through the Internal Technical Team
assigned specially to rectify the identified defects in construction. Skill Instructors and
Trainees were also assigned this responsibility. Proper training was provided to BRC to
identify defects and to take prompt action.

Disbursement of funds – The total funds releases for this project up to 31st December,
2011 was Rs.16,097 million (US$145.17 million), which amounted to 99.9% of the total
allocation. There were no delays in the disbursement of trenches.

Material purchase – Up to 2009, due to restrictions in transport of building materials,
procurement of building materials and their distribution was with the assistance of BRC.
As a result of normalization of civil administration, from 2010 onwards, procurements
were made directly by the beneficiaries the selves.

Conclusion – Out of the 50,079 houses planned, 49,507 (99%) had been completed with
the efficient coordination of all stake holders, including the district administration and
Beneficiaries Rehabilitation Committee.

9. LESSONS LEARNED
The strengths and weakness of the project are important lessons useful for future.

9.1 Strengths
       1. Over 50,000 families in the North and East have their own dwelling places,
       providing the      much needed confidence, recognition as well as social stigma
       associated with it.
       2. The great success of the “owner driven? concept as a strategic option.

9.2. Weaknesses
       1. The political risk due to war and unstable condition in North & East is low but
          the social risk of exclusion of these families from society has to be carefully
          avoided.
       2. Integration of these families into the society is not satisfactory and that unless
          supporting social organizations are activated and put into action, their
          livelihood activities may suffer.
       3. Shortcomings in the selection process of villages and beneficiaries should be
          avoided. The selection process should include the Grama Niladharis in a
          responsible manner and should also involve community validation of
          selection.
       4. Enhanced coordination between the various stake holders is very critical for
          the success and continuity of the project. The decentralized implementation
          setup should entail a great deal of coordination between NEHRP, District and
          divisional administration as well as other multilateral institutions.

       5. Increased capacity to efficiently supervise construction of such large number

                                            50
           of housing units would have been more desirable.
      6.   The Government of Sri Lanka is responsible for the coordination of the
           project with ongoing and future development programs in the North and East.
           Through such means, comprehensive monitoring of beneficiary status and
           provision of further support for their livelihood would be possible.
      7.   Floor area in future programs to vulnerable families should be strictly limited
           not to exceed 550 sq.feet.
      8.   Villages in remote places require more assistance and support than those close
           to cities.
      9.   The North and East of Sri Lanka has tremendous agricultural/fisheries
           potential and sustainability of achievements bestowed by the project will
           ultimately depend on exploitation of this vast potential. Future support
           projects should take this into consideration.

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                           51
                       Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


      Project Implementation Plan

      Project Appraisal Document for Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka:
       North East Housing Reconstruction Program dated November 9, 2004 (Report
       No: 30436-LK)

      Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.

      Project Progress Reports.

      Borrower's Evaluation Report dated February 2012


*including electronic files




                                         52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33485
                                                         80°E                                                                                 81°E

I N DIA                                                                                                                                                                                                    SRI LANKA
10°N                                                                                                                                                                               10°N                           SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROVINCE CAPITALS
                               it
                      r    a                                                      Point Pedro                                                                                                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL
                   St

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RIVERS
                k




                                                  Jaffna                                                                                                                                                          MAIN ROADS
              Pal




                            Delft                                                               Elephant Pass                                                                                                     RAILROADS
                          Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                Palk Bay                                        Killinochchi                                                                                                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                  Iranamadu
                                                                                                  Tank                       Mullaittivu

                          Ferr y
                   Ad                   Talaimannar                              Manakulam
                      am
                        's B
                             ridge
9°N
                                     Mannar
                                      Island        Mannar                      NORTHERN
                                                                                                                                                       Pulmoddai



                                                         Aruvi A                       Vavuniya
                                                                ru

                                                                                                                                                                                                       SRI LANKA
                                                                                                                                                                              Trincomalee

  Gulf of                       Karaitivu                              NORTH CENTRAL
                                  Island                                                             Rambewa                                                                        Mutur
 Mannar                                                             Anuradhapura
                                                                                                                  Yan Oya




                                                                                                    Galkulama
                               Kalpitiya
                                                                   Ka                                                                   Kaud
                                                                      la   Oya                                                                         ulla Oya
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bay of Bengal
                                     Puttalan                                                          Habarane
8°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8°N

                                                 NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                      Madura Oya




                                                 WESTERN                              Maho
                                                              Oya                                                                                                                                           Batticaloa
                                                        uru
                                                      ed                                                                                                                                                          Kattankudi
                                                                                                                                      Mahaweli Ganga
                                                  D




                                                                                                                                                                                     EASTERN
                                     Chilaw                                                                                                                                Madura Oya
                                                                     Kurunegala                                                                                             Reservoir

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kalmunai
                                                                                                      CENTRAL
                                                        ha O y a
                                                      Ma                                                                                                                                          Ampara

                                    Negombo                                                                 Kandy                                                                                          Gal Oya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                y
                                                                                        Kegalla
                                                                                                           Victoria Falls
                                                                                                             Reservoir                                      U VA
                                                                                                                   Pidurutalagala                                                    Senanayake
                                                WESTERN                                                            (2,524 m)                                                          Samudra
                                                                       g                                                          Badulla
7°N
                                                         Kelan     Gan                                                                                                                                                                                 7°N
                               COLOMBO
                    Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte                                                                                                                                                                          Pottuvil
                                                                                                                                                                                          Monaragala
                                      Moratuwa
                                                                                               Ratnapura
                                                                           lu                                                                                Wellawaya
                                                                     Ka
                                                                                                                                                              Kirin




                                                                                     SABARAGAMUWA
                                                                                                                                                                 in d




                                              Kalutara
                                                                                                                                                                  i Oya




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kumana
                                                                                                                                                                     ya




  Laccadive
                                                                                                                             Wala




                                                                                                                                                                                          Kataragama
                                                                                                                               l aw




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INDIAN
                                                                                                                                e
                                                                                                                                eG




          Sea
                                                                                                                                      an




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OCEAN
                                                                                                                                         g
                                                                                                                                         g  a




                                                                                                  SOUTHERN
                                                                                                                                                              Hambantota
                                                                                 Galle
6°N                                                                                                                         Tangalla                                                               0         20            40          60 Kilometers   6°N
                                                                                                     Matara
This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                         Dondra Head
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                      0        10        20          30     40 Miles
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                         80°E                                                                                 81°E                                                                              82°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SEPTEMBER 2004
