      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      LOCAL SERVICES DELIVERY (P096823)



                                                                                                               Report Number : ICRR0020104


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                            Project Name
 P096823                                               LOCAL SERVICES DELIVERY

 Country                                               Practice Area(Lead)
 Serbia                                                Health, Nutrition & Population



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                     Closing Date (Original)                                     Total Project Cost (USD)
  IBRD-75100                                           31-Dec-2012                                                            46,400,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                   Closing Date (Actual)
  18-Mar-2008                                          31-Mar-2015

                                                             IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                  Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                           46,400,000.00                                                        0.00

  Revised Commitment                                            46,166,110.65                                                        0.00

  Actual                                                        42,163,227.37                                                        0.00




 Sector(s)
 Sub-national government administration(40%):Central government administration(20%):Other social services(14%):Health(13%):General
 education sector(13%)

 Theme(s)
 Decentralization(29%):Municipal governance and institution building(29%):Health system performance(14%):Social Safety Nets/Social
 Assistance & Social Care Services(14%):Education for all(14%)

 Prepared by                        Reviewed by                        ICR Review Coordinator             Group
 Judith Hahn Gaubatz                Judyth L. Twigg                    Joy Behrens                        IEGHC (Unit 2)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    According to the Loan Agreement (page 5) and the Project Appraisal Document (page 7), the project objective was as follows:

       • To increase the capacity of institutional actors and Beneficiaries in order to improve access to and the efficiency, equity and
       quality of local delivery of health, education and social protection services, in a decentralizing environment.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          LOCAL SERVICES DELIVERY (P096823)




     For the purposes of this Review, "increased capacity" is considered to be an intermediate outcome towards the following overall objectives:

          • To improve access to local delivery of health, education and social protection services, in a decentralizing environment.
          • To improve efficiency of local delivery of health, education and social protection services, in a decentralizing environment.
                To improve equity of local delivery of health, education and social protection services, in a decentralizing environment.
          • To improve quality of local delivery of health, education and social protection services, in a decentralizing environment.




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
     1. Making Fiscal Decentralization Work (Appraisal: US$ 7.0 million; Actual: US$ 7.0 million): This component aimed to develop
     mechanisms for ear-marking funds to programs at the local level, in order to improve the quality and efficiency of service delivery.
     Activities included: development of financing formula and framework for each sector, including a framework to correct inequalities across
     different municipalities; and training on the new financing mechanisms to state government, local government, and service providers.
     2. Improving Outreach and Access through Development and Expansion of Innovations in Service Delivery (Appraisal: US$ 12.2 million;
     Actual: US$ 12.2 million): This component aimed to provide opportunities for local governments and service providers to identity new
     approaches and models for service delivery. Activities included: provision of grants to increase inclusiveness (i.e. Roma and disabled
     populations); revision of the financing framework for disabled groups, from incremental financing to project-based allocations; training to
     meet needs of excluded vulnerable groups; and development of information materials on citizens' rights.
     3. Supporting a New Regulatory, Oversight and Quality Assurance Role for State-level Ministries (Appraisal: US$ 7.4 million; Actual: US$
     19.8 million): This component aimed to support the transition of ministries from implementation to oversight responsibilities. Activities
     included: training on supervision; development of quality assurance mechanisms and standards; and impact evaluations.
     4. Improving Capacity of Local State Governments and other Local Public Institutions as Service Providers (Appraisal: US$ 16.5 million;
     Actual: US$ 3.2 million): This component aimed to develop skills and knowledge at the local level to inform decisions on management,
     planning and monitoring of service delivery. Activities included: provision of grants to schools to address issues of inclusiveness and
     safety from violence; and development of information technology networks for each sector ministry.
     5. Project Implementation Support (Appraisal: US$ 3.2 million; Actual: not reported in ICR): This component was to support operations of
     the Fiduciary Services Unit (FSU) for overall project support and Project Administration Teams (PATs) in each sector ministry.

     At the June 2012 project restructuring, the components were re-organized as follows, to better align with the project objective statement:
     1. Transform financing models
     2. Improve access and equity
     3. Improve accountability and quality
     4. Support project implementation




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
     Project cost

          • The actual project cost was US$ 42.6 million, compared to the appraised cost of US$ 46.4 million. The difference is largely due to
          fluctuations in the Euro/US$ exchange rate.
          • The actual cost for original Component 3 (Support to new oversight role for central ministries) was significantly higher than
          appraised due to the transfer of unspent funds to Ministry of Health activities and response to damage from floods in 2014).
          • The actual cost for original Component 4 (Capacity of local state government) was significantly lower than appraised due to
          implementation shortcomings in developing inter-sectoral coordination.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       LOCAL SERVICES DELIVERY (P096823)




    Financing

       • The project was financed entirely by an IBRD Loan of US$ 46.4 million.
       • US$ 230,000 was cancelled from the Loan.



    Borrower contribution

       • There was no planned Borrower contribution.



    Dates

       • June 2012: The project was restructured to revise indicators and improve the specificity, measurability and relevance of those
       indicators. However, targets for key outcome indicators were not changed. Components 3 and 4 were also merged to better align
       with implementation arrangements. State ministries and local governments had already been jointly implementing these activities,
       and therefore planning and reporting were also merged.
       • November 2012: The project closing date was extended from December 2012 to December 2013.
       • October 2013: The project was restructured to include an additional intermediate outcome indicator on centralized procurement of
       pharmaceuticals. The project closing date was extended from December 2013 to September 2014, for health sector activities only,
       which showed highest likelihood of completion.
       • August 2014: The project closing date was extended from September 2014 to March 2015, to allow completion of activities in the
       health sector.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   At appraisal, the government of Serbia was launching an ambitious program of decentralization in an effort to improve delivery of services in
   the education, health and social protection sectors. However, institutional capacity to carry out the process was limited, both at the local level
   in terms of managing service delivery, and at the central level in terms of allocating resources and ensuring quality of services. Health
   indicators, such as life expectancy, child mortality and infant mortality rates, had improved in recent years but continued to lag behind those of
   other European countries. Education outcomes, according to international assessments, placed Serbia's performance below that of other
   Eastern European transition countries. Social protection, particularly for people living with disabilities, was also identified as an area that
   would benefit from a more decentralized and local approach. For all these sectors, the Roma population was especially vulnerable to being
   excluded from services, directly contributing to their poverty rate that was nearly ten times the national average.

   The project objective was relevant to the government's development strategies, as reflected by its ongoing decentralization program, the
   National Plan for Integration (2008) into the European Union, the Second National Report on Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction (2011-
   2014), and the framework law on Local Self-Government Finance (2006). It was also highly relevant to the Bank's Country Partnership
   Framework for FY 2016-2020, which highlights improved governance and institutional capacity to deliver quality services as a key priority.

   However, the objective statement as articulated in the project documents was complex, as it included multiple longer-term
   outcomes (increased access, efficiency, quality and equity) in multiple sectors.




   Rating
   Substantial
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               LOCAL SERVICES DELIVERY (P096823)




   b. Relevance of Design

       The project interventions were highly focused on capacity building, both at the local level (for managing service delivery) and the central
       Ministry level (for transitioning to oversight and quality assurance responsibilities). Support for the government's decentralization process was
       also a key aspect of project design, although the adoption of an inter-sectoral coordination approach (support to the Ministry of Public
       Administration and Local Self-Government and the Project Policy Board composed of the three lead Ministries) diminished in relevance amidst
       a changing political landscape. National elections in the months following project approval resulted in a coalition government that was "not
       particularly favorable to project implementation, especially in cases where it was necessary to reach agreement among government institutions
       headed by officials representing different coalition partners with divergent philosophies" (ICR, page 6). Sequencing of activities was also
       complex, as progress in activities at the national level was a prerequisite for implementing activities at the decentralized levels.




       Rating
       Modest




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     To improve access to local delivery of health, education and social protection services

    Rationale
    Health
    Outputs

        • Recruitment of 75 Roma health mediators to work in primary health centers, including provision of training on public health,
        communication skills, hygiene, prevention of communicable diseases, vaccinations, and healthy lifestyles.



    Outcomes

        • Over 140,000 Roma men, women and children were reached through the health mediators program.
        • 30,018 Roma children received vaccinations through the Roma health mediators program, surpassing the target of 18,795. The
        program also provided 2,340 personal documents and health cards; medical examinations for 650 pregnant women and new mothers;
        1,496 screening exams for women; 1,144 mammograms; and 58,961 health visits.



    Education
    Outputs

        • Provision of school improvement grants to 560 education institutions (schools and preschools). These included 330 grants for
        inclusive education (disability, special needs, rural), and 193 grants for inclusion of Roma children.
        • Implementation of Roma integration policy at the municipal level. An external evaluation reported that the grants for inclusive
        education also contributed to "better cooperation of different agencies at the local level in providing services and support to children from
        deprived groups" (as reported in the ICR, page 15).
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               LOCAL SERVICES DELIVERY (P096823)



    Outcomes

        • Although the ICR reports data on the proportion of children enrolled in project schools that are from vulnerable groups (increased from
        3.2-3.6% to 6.56% in 2015), this does not necessarily indicate an increase in enrollment.




    Social Protection

    Outputs

        • Awarding of 92 grants from the Disability Fund to NGOs.



    Outcomes
    None reported.


    Achievement is rated Modest due to evidence of increased access to services in the health sector, but lack of sufficient evidence in the
    education and social protection sectors.


    Rating
    Modest

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     To improve efficiency of local delivery of health, education and social protection services

    Rationale
    Health
    Outputs

        • Support to the legislative framework to allow capitation and output-based financing. This followed on the development of the
        capitation formula under a EU-funded project. The Law on Salaries of Public Servants and corresponding by-laws defining performance
        payments were adopted in October 2012.
        • Training of 500 local government staff and primary health care center staff on the new capitation formula.
        • Development of framework agreements for the 50 most frequently dispensed drugs, as part of efforts to centralize procurement of
        pharmaceuticals.
        • Provision of technical assistance and equipment for a management information system.



    Outcomes

        • Financing for primary health care centers has changed from salary-based only to an output-based formula. The capitation formula
        initially allocated 2% of salaries based on performance, but that had increased to 8% in 2015.
        • 96% of primary health care centers established a management information system (target; 85%).
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               LOCAL SERVICES DELIVERY (P096823)




    Education
    Outputs
             • Partial piloting of the central and local per capita (per pupil) funding system. Progress was made on developing the central
    formula, but less so on the local formula.

    Outcomes
    No outcomes reported.

    Social Protection
    Outputs

        • Support in implementing a new financing modality for the Disability Fund, such that allocations are based on a competitive mechanism
        according to the quality and relevance of subproject proposals. A Grant Operations Manual includes improved formats for grant
        applications, templates for reporting on expenditures and activities, and scales for assessing proposals.
        • Development of a central management information system for social protection institutions, which will provide a single database for all
        approximately 700,000 social protection beneficiaries, and link all service providers with the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection. The
        system has been tested; however, it is not yet fully operational. 600 staff have been trained and certified in the use of the system.


    Outcomes

        • 100% of the Disability Fund is allocated according on a competitive basis, according to criteria to enable equal access, improved
        transparency, and results-based financing.




    Achievement is rated Substantial due to evidence of increased efficiency in the health sector and social protection sector, although not in
    the education sector.


    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 3

    Objective
     To improve equity of local delivery of health, education and social protection services

    Rationale
    Relevant to all three sectors, the project support development of a framework with criteria and methodology for equalizing funds allocation
    across different municipalities.


    Health

    Outputs

        • See outputs reported above on Roma health mediators program.



    Outcomes
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               LOCAL SERVICES DELIVERY (P096823)



        • See outcomes reported above on increased access to health services for Roma population.



    Education
    Outputs

        • See outputs reported above on inclusiveness grants for schools serving Roma school children.



    Outcomes

        • The proportion of children enrolled in project schools that are from vulnerable groups (children with disabilities or learning difficulties,
        or from socio-economically disadvantaged groups) increased from 3.2-3.6% in 2012 to 8.44% in 2010/11 but then decreased to 6.56%
        in 2015. The target was 7.5%. This compares to the proportion enrolled in non-project schools of 4.11%.



    Social Protection
    None reported.

    Achievement is rated Substantial due to evidence of increased equity for the Roma population in health and education services although
    none reported in social protection.


    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 4

    Objective
     To improve quality of local delivery of health, education and social protection services

    Rationale
    Health
    Outputs
    Note: The ICR indicates that approximately 42 primary health care centers were supported by the project. The project team clarified that
    the total number of primary health care centers in the country is 158. While only 42 received project grants, all centers received project
    support in management and quality training.



        •   Provision of accreditation grants to 42 primary healthcare centers for introducing standards for patient care and clinical support.
        •   Provision of investment grants to 42 primary health care centers for implementing quality improvement plans.
        •   Adoption of clinical pathways methodology.
        •   Training for 2,000 medical and non-medical staff on recognizing needs of vulnerable groups (target: 2,000).




    Outcomes

        • 51% of primary health care centers completed the quality accreditation process (target: 50%). 40% of primary health care centers
        received a three-year (or longer) certification of accreditation, surpassing the target of 25%.
        • The clinical pathways methodology was piloted by 50 primary health care centers (target: 50).
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       LOCAL SERVICES DELIVERY (P096823)




 Education
 Outputs

    • Technical assistance in preparing for participation in international student assessments. Participation of 100 schools in the Program
    for International Student Assessment (PISA) in 2012 and the Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS) in 2011.
    • Training of 23,387 education staff on addressing needs of vulnerable children (target: 23,000).
    • Conducting of an external evaluation of performance for 100 schools (target: 60).



 Outcomes

    • The ICR (page 15) reports findings from an external evaluation that included "significantly reduced absenteeism and increased school
    achievement of students from deprived communities"; however, no specific data are provided to validate these quality improvements.



 Social Protection
 Outputs

    • Awarding of 92 grants from the Disability Fund to NGOs. These grants were aimed at improving quality of life for people with
    disabilities.



 Outcomes
 None reported.

 Achievement is rated Modest due to evidence of improved quality in the health sector, but lack of sufficient evidence in the education and
 social protection sectors.


 Rating
 Modest



5. Efficiency

 Traditional rate of return analyses were not prepared for project appraisal or at completion due to the technical assistance nature of most of
 the project activities.

 The ICR (Annex 3) cites literature on economic impacts of decentralization in the education, health and social protection sectors, although it
 does not provide estimates of the direct and indirect impact of this project's activities due to insufficient data. However, given the shortcomings
 in implementation and achievements in some areas (i.e. efficiency in the education sector, quality in all three sectors), the benefits are likely
 lower than expected. Efficiency is also assessed according to the efficient use of project resources. Interventions in all three sectors included
 targeting of the most vulnerable populations, which likely increased marginal benefits. However, the project experience suggests that
 implementation delays were significant and led to a project extension of over two years and shortfalls in completing activities by project
 closing.
  Efficiency in the use of project resources is rated Modest.




Efficiency Rating
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         LOCAL SERVICES DELIVERY (P096823)



Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                               Rate Available?             Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                             0
 Appraisal                                                                 0
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

                                                                                                             0
 ICR Estimate                                                              0
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

Relevance of the project objectives is rated Substantial and relevance of the project design is rated Modest, due to the diminished relevance of a
coordinated inter-sectoral approach and complex sequencing of project activities. Achievement of the objective to increase institutional
capacity in order to improve access is rated Modest due to evidence of increased access to services in the health sector, but lack of sufficient
evidence in the education and social protection sectors. Achievement of the objective to improve efficiency is rated Substantial due to due to
evidence of increased efficiency in the health sector and social protection sector, although not in the education sector. Achievement of the
objective to improve equity is rated Substantial due to evidence of increased equity for the Roma population in health and education services
although none reported in social protection. Achievement of the objective to improve quality is rated Modest due to evidence of improved quality
in the health sector, but lack of sufficient evidence in the education and social protection sectors. Efficiency in the use of project resources is
rated Modest due to lengthy implementation delays and shortfalls in completing activities by project closing.



a.     Outcome Rating
       Moderately Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

There is no follow on Bank-financed project envisaged, although the policy issues continue to be advanced by other donor projects in the
specific sectors. An ongoing Bank analytic review of service delivery will also likely sustain focus on policy issues. The ICR (page 19-20)
suggests that the demonstrated value of several of the project interventions will ensure their sustainability. However, fiscal constraints faced by
the central government pose continued risk.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Modest


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The risks of complex institutional arrangements and inadequate capacity were appropriately identified and rated High in the risk assessment;
     however, mitigation measures were ineffective. Notably, the political transition due to the upcoming national elections (the project was
     approved two months before the elections) was not included as a risk and subsequently materialized, with significant negative impact on
     project implementation. Project preparation included active participation of the various line ministries through a project Roundtable, ensuring
     alignment with sector strategies and commitment of ministries; however, there were some shortcomings in project readiness as reported in
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       LOCAL SERVICES DELIVERY (P096823)



   the ICR (page 7), including delays in hiring project implementing staff, establishing the Designated Account, and finalizing institutional
   mechanisms for grants, all of which contributed to further implementation delays. There were shortcomings in the results framework, as the
   grouping of multiple sectors and longer-term outcomes into one objective statement was challenging for evaluation purposes, and some
   indicators were difficult to measure.



   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
   Initial Bank supervision focused on developing capacity for inter-sectoral coordination, as this was considered a key aspect of decentralization.
   However, given the changing political environment, implementation support began to shift towards achieving outcomes in each individual
   sector (education, health, and social protection). The Bank team took advantage of the opportunity afforded by the Mid-Term Review to refine
   indicators and to adjust project components to better align with actual implementation realities. However, this restructuring took place only in
   June 2012 (six months before the original project closing date). The Bank team provided effective safeguards and fiduciary support.



   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   Although the government in place during project preparation was strongly committed to the decentralization agenda and the coordination of
   activities across several sectors, national elections held in the first half of 2008 resulted in a new coalition government comprised of 13
   different political parties. This presented challenges in coordinating and reaching agreement on activities in several different Ministries.
   There were continued changes in government leadership throughout the project, including four ministers of health, three ministers of
   education, and two ministers of labor and social protection, all of which led invariably to changes in project implementation staff and the
   need for additional time to orient new staff. Changes in political commitment or momentum on specific policy issues, such as the capitation
   allocation for education, affected the pace of project implementation, although in the end, key legislation in all three sectors was advanced.
   The Project Policy Board, established for the purposes of monitoring project progress and coordinating inter-sectoral activities, met only
   three times during the project period and did not function as planned.



   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   Several ministries were actively involved in project implementation, given the inter-sectoral nature of the project. Project performance,
   however, varied across sectors, influenced in part by the ongoing political transitions and ensuing staff changes. The Ministry of Health
   and the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection were largely effective in implementing activities in their respective sectors. The Ministry of
   Education had some shortcomings in performance, related to payments to contractors and project supervision, which resulted in shortfalls
   in implementation. The Ministry of Public Administration and Local Self Government was expected to play a critical role in supporting
   intersectoral coordination (which had been considered important for effective decentralization) and developing capacity of local
   governments; however, its role was more limited in actuality. Fiduciary and safeguards performance by the Fiduciary Services Unit was
   overall satisfactory, with no major problems reported. M&E performance was only moderately satisfactory due to shortcomings in the M&E
   design.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       LOCAL SERVICES DELIVERY (P096823)



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The M&E design had significant shortcomings. The inclusion of multiple sectors and multiple longer-term outcomes into the single objective
   statement posed a challenge to assessing achievement. Several indicators were problematic in their measurability ("satisfaction with quality of
   delivery of services among users of health services and disability services") or combining of multiple sectors ("allocation of financing from state
   government for health and education services"). Baseline figures were to be set within the first year of the project. Data collection
   arrangements relied primarily on existing monitoring systems in each Ministry, as well as impact evaluations of key project activities.




b. M&E Implementation
   The results framework was revised under the June 2012 restructuring, in recognition of the shortcomings discussed above. Indicators specific
   to each sector, and the corresponding Ministry responsible for data collection, were clarified. Baseline and target figures were identified. Two
   evaluations were completed on the Training and Grants Program for Inclusive Education, and on the primary health care center quality
   improvement grants.




c. M&E Utilization
   There is limited information on the use of M&E data to inform decision-making.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was classified as environmental Category "B." Safeguard policies on Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) and Physical
   Cultural Property (OP/BP 4.11) were triggered, due to the potential for rehabilitation of facilities. An Environmental Management
   Framework was prepared, which required environmental management plans to address risks associated with air quality, noise, water
   quality, solid waste disposal, asbestos, toxic and hazardous waste, medical waste, and risks to cultural heritage. Project supervision teams
   included a safeguards specialist, who found compliance to be generally satisfactory with no major problems reported. A
   safeguards consultant was also hired to advise the implementing agencies. However, there were some shortcomings in the final
   Environmental Compliance Report by the Ministry of Education, as it was significantly delayed and lacked full documentation because the
   Environmental Specialist was no longer available to provide individual site supervision reports.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Fiduciary functions were centralized in the Fiduciary Services Unit (FSU), with support from sector-specific Project Administration Teams.
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             LOCAL SERVICES DELIVERY (P096823)



   Procurement: Procurement performance was overall satisfactory with no major problems reported in the ICR. Persistent challenges included
   delays in implementation of large activities (i.e. information technology), complexity of procuring hardware and systems; and communications
   problems between the FSU and the sector Project Administration Teams. In response, The Bank team made proactive recommendations to
   update the procurement plan more frequently to enable more effective management of project activities.

   Financial management: Financial management performance was overall satisfactory with no major problems reported in the ICR. Financial
   reports were submitted regularly and in a timely manner. Supervision mission reviews of transactions and internal controls identified no
   irregularities. Audits were unqualified. There were some shortcomings noted in the ICR (page 11), including the accumulation of payment
   arrears in the Ministry of Education, primarily due to inadequate oversight. Disbursement estimates also needed to be formally revised on
   several occasions to account for significant implementation delays of large activities.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   None reported.




d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                 IEG
                                                                                                                Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Risk to Development Outcome               Modest                             Modest                             ---
Bank Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Borrower Performance                      Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Quality of ICR                                                               Substantial                        ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

Lessons drawn from the ICR (page 22), adapted by IEG:

   • The lack of a robust results framework, including a complex single objective statement and lack of measurable indicators, can pose a
   challenge to project management and assessment of project achievements. A subsequent restructuring of the results framework clarified
   indicators according to each sector, which was particularly critical as the inter-sectoral coordination of activities did not take place planned.
   • A project's results chain that depends heavily upon passage of legislation as an early output can be tenuous, especially if the
   legislation does not materialize and then negatively impacts subsequent implementation of activities. The loss in momentum in converting to
   a per-pupil funding formula in the education sector led to shortcomings in implementing the relevant activities.
   • The disbursement schedule needs to take into account the nature of the activities being financed and the time needed to implement those
   activities. The primary focus of early activities was technical assistance, which is slow-disbursing and supervision-intensive.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       LOCAL SERVICES DELIVERY (P096823)




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The quality of the analysis is adequate, which was challenging given the capacity building nature of the project and the weak results
framework. The presentation of evidence may have benefited from a more concise presentation of outputs (i.e., those most directly relevant
and attributable to the project). Lessons are well drawn from the project experience with the multi-sectoral approach.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
