Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14899
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOLDOVA
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
LOAN NO. 3569-MD
JULY 21, 1995
Natural Resource Management Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
( December 1994)
Currency Unit = Moldovan Leu
US $ 1.00 = 4.38 Lei
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FSU                    Former Soviet Union
MINFIN                 Ministry of Finance
MFER                   Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations
MAF                    Ministry of Agriculture and Food
MOLDEXIM               Importing Agent (Parastatal)
FERTILITATEA           Distributing Agent for Agrocliemicals (Parastatal)
ARKA MOLDOVA           Distributing Agent for Spare Parts (Parastatal)
CEREALE                Distributing Agent for Poultry Feed (Parastatal)
q/ha                   Quintals (100 kg) per hectare
a.i.                   Active Ingredient (Active Chemical in Pesticides)
IS                     International Shopping
LIB                    Limited International Bidding



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Preface.
Evaluation Summary . ...ii
PART 1. Project Implementation Assessment .              ...I
Introduction.I
Project Objectives ...   2
Implementation Experience and Results .. .     3
Agrochemicals .................................................. .4
Seeds and Drills.                                                                     6
Spare Parts ...                                                                       7
Poultry Feed ...  7
Project Sustainability ...                                                            8
Bank Performance.                                                                     8
Borrower Performance.                                                                 9
Assessment of Outcome.                                                                9
Future Operations... .                                                                9
Key Lessons Learned ...   10
PART 11. Statistical Annexes .                                                                       11
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .. .     12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ..                                               .     13
Table 3: Project Timetable .. .     13
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual  ....    14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .. .     14
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ..                                       .     14
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ..                                              .     14
Table 8A: Project Costs .. .    15
Table 8B: Project Financing .. .     15
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .. .     15
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .. .     15
Table I 1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements  ..                             .      16
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..                                            .     16
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .. .     17
Appendixes:
A. Mission's Aide-memoire
B. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  |



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOLDOVA
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
[Loan no. 3569 MD]
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Emergency Drought Recovery Project
in Moldova, for which a loan in the amount of US$ 26.0 million was approved on March 11, 1993 and
made effective on March 19, 1993.
The loan was closed on March 31, 1994, the original closing date. Disbursements under the loan
were completed on April 14, 1994 with the cancellation of US$ 176,865.96, representing the undisbursed
amount of the loan.
The ICR was prepared by Oskar Honisch, Natural Resources Management Division (EC4NR), Europe
and Central Asia Region, and reviewed by Mr. Geoffrey Fox, Division Chief (EC4NR), and Ms. Judy
O'Connor, Principal Operations Officer (EC4DR).
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in May 1994, and
information was updated during a mission in December, 1994. It is based on material in the project file.
The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by providing comments on the project and statistical
data.



I
l ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~                 ~ ~~~                    ~ ~~~                     ~ ~~~                    ~ ~~~                   ~ ~~~                   ~ ~~~                   ~ ~~~                  ~ ~~~                  ~ ~~~                 ~ ~~~                 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOLDOVA
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
[Loan no. 3569 MD]
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.           Agriculture and food processing make up more than half of Moldovan economic activity.
Important products include fruits and berries for processing, tobacco, wine grapes, winter wheat, maize,
and grain-intensive livestock. Around half a million ha (about 21% of agricultural land) are planted in
fruits, vegetables, and vineyards. These are high value crops more prone to pest infestation than most
annual field crops. The product mix reflects Moldova's labor -intensive resource base as well as its fertile
soils.
2.            The Republic of Moldova became independent on August 27, 1991 at a time of severe
economic dislocation as a result of the disintegration of the USSR. This dislocation was exacerbated by
a serious civil disturbance in the Trans-Dniester region in mid-1992 and a massive terms of trade shock
as Russian energy prices rose toward world levels. In the summer of 1992, the situation was compounded
by the worst drought since 1946. A lack of mid and late summer rains, coupled with much higher than
average temperatures and an unusually high incidence of days with hot dry winds (sukhovei), inflicted
heavy damage on annual crops, as well as fruits and vineyards.
3.           In 1992 overall cereal production declined by 32%, of which maize by 58%. Serious
decreases in yields and production also occurred in sugar beet, tobacco and soybeans; fruits yielded only
some 30-40% of normal production, and grapes were half the usual yields. Valuation of the direct loss
in output in the crop sector at domestic prices prevailing on average in 1992 (approximately third quarter
prices) was about 40 billion Rubles, or some 16% of Moldovan GDP in 1992.
4.            While in the medium-term there was need for further institutional and policy reforms in
the agricultural sector, in the short term external assistance had to be targeted to arresting the productivity
decline and restoring productive capacity, as it contributes about 40% of the country's net material product
and it employs one third of the labor force. Agricultural chemicals, fuel, fertilizer, and spare parts are
predominantly imported, traditionally from the FSU, though some western imports have been transshipped
via Moscow. Neither the farms nor the Government had financial reserves with which to procure
commercial imports, yet the country could not afford to risk the large losses likely if vines and orchards,
already weakened by the 1992 drought, were left exposed to the 1993 season's diseases and insects. The
Government requested emergency assistance from the Bank to help alleviate the serious impact of the
drought.
5.            Moldova joined the Bank on August 12, 1992. This loan was the first to the country. The
appraisal mission enjoyed close collaboration with the Moldovan authorities and a fruitful policy dialogue
on the agricultural sector developed, leading to very satisfactory economic and investment lending
cooperation.



- Iii-
Project Objectives
6.  The main objective of the project was to provide fast disbursing funds to assist recovery from the
catastrophic 1992 drought. The project aimed to increase the availability of food for the domestic economy
and exports, and to reduce increasing poverty and hardship, by restoring production in the key sector of
the economy. The loan provided inputs essential for the 1993 agricultural season. It assisted in raising
production and exports, thus narrowing the balance of payments gap resulting from substantial incremental
food imports. The objective was to be accomplished through fast imports, and well planned local
distribution and sales of the critical inputs to the farming community. In-country technical assistance was
to be provided for guidance in procurement and disbursement.
Implementation Experience and Results
7.  While project processing started only in mid-January 1993 with a first field visit, and implementation
was substantially completed by the end of 1993, the project's main objective was achieved. The bulk of
the imported inputs arrived in time to be utilized for the 1993 agricultural season. Early identification of
critical procurement items and procurement packages during project preparation, coupled with technical
assistance for procurement and disbursement during implementation had a major part in the project's
success. The TA was particularly useful, given the Borrower's lack of experience with the Bank's
procedures and with competitive procurement. Partly as a result of timely provision of project financed
technical inputs, helped by more normal precipitation, production of major crops substantially increased
in 1993, providing food, poverty reduction and increased agricultural export earnings. The institutional
capability, in terms of financial management and discipline and procurement procedures in the enterprises
involved in the project, was considerably strengthened through strict monitoring by MINFIN and inputs
of the TA.
8.  Agrochemicals represented some 60% of project costs and were the single most critical component
for the implementation of the 1993 agricultural season. Seven agrochemicals, required according to the
established Moldovan agricultural calendar by April 15, were procured and delivered on time through
International Shopping (IS). The remaining ones with later target delivery dates were purchased on time
using Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures. Companies from seven countries participated in the
bidding and price competition was satisfactory. The benefits of competitive purchasing were highlighted
by substantial variations in bid prices and an overall saving of over $ 840,000 from the estimated cost of
$ 15.7 million, thus providing a valuable example for the Borrower who had in the past consistently relied
on direct contracting, and was initially unreceptive to international competition.
9.  All agrochemicals had a highly positive impact on production. Overall, the impact of project-
financed inputs, coupled with a more normal rainfall season in 1993, was best demonstrated in the most
pest-prone crops, such as fruits, grapes, potatoes and sugar beet, where the modem pesticides, drills and
hybrid seed were primarily used. The spare parts for harvesters, fertilizer, spraying and irrigation
equipment, and diesel engines, imported under the project, contributed to timely performance of a number
of important field operations. Fruit production in 1993 more than doubled compared with 1992 (1,038,000
t versus 511,000 t), while grape production increased by 7%, potato production by 36%, and sugar beet
production rose by 14%. In comparison to 1991, fruit production was 49% higher, grape production 14%,
potato production 45%, but sugar beet output declined by 11%. However, the sugar beet area cultivated
with project-imported inputs gave outstanding results (para 13). In contrast to 1993, the agricultural season
of 1994 was affected by yet another disastrous drought and other climatic calamities, with production of
all crops, except potatoes and fruits, falling even below 1992 levels.



- iii -
10. In 1992/93, there was a great qualitative difference between pesticides produced in countries of the
FSU, and those produced in western countries. The latter were considerably safer, more efficient, with a
faster rate of biodegradability, requiring much lower quantities of active ingredient (a.i.) per unit area.
Some of the best pesticides required only several hundred grams, or even less, of a.i. per ha, with 5-8
kg/ha, and in extreme cases even well over 30 kg/ha, needed for many of the FSU pesticides.
Consequently, the modern pesticides imported under the project had a clearly positive environmental
impact.
11. Some criticism has been raised that due to project interventions, production was so high in some
farms in 1993 that it could not be harvested, resulting in substantial losses occurred due to inadequate
infrastructure for harvesting. According to the highest sources in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
(MAF), these losses were no more serious than in some other years. They were reportedly caused
primarily by a critical shortage of fuel which resulted in the inability to transport the produce from the
field to markets and processing plants, and by the early onset of unusually strong and long lasting frosts.
12. The project helped to restore production in the agricultural sector by providing essential inputs rather
than developing stronger capital assets. Medium- to long-term, sustainability in the agricultural sector
depends on progress in macro-economic and agricultural sector policy, institutional reforms and economic
restructuring. The project contributed to sustainability by reducing the risk that the restructuring process
would be retarded or even reversed because of the potential for another unfavorable agricultural year.
13. Sustainability is not as critical in emergency projects financing immediate, urgently required inputs.
Nonetheless, the project did generate some longer-term benefits which are worth mentioning. A successful
technical cooperation emerged between the Moldovan firm that assembled precision drills and the western
company which delivered the essential technical parts for assembly, in the form of engineering cooperation
and training of Moldovan engineers and technicians in the design bureaus and workshops of the western
company. The excellent sugar beet results achieved with western technology in 1993 encouraged the
Government to import more seed and precision drills for the 1994 season. Continued application of this
modern production technology is likely to become a permanent feature of Moldovan agriculture. The
critical spare parts delivered under the project for some essential machines (drills, fertilizer spreaders,
sprayers, forage harvesters) are likely to extend the economic life of these machines for a number of years.
It is safe to assume that the well targeted crop protection applications of 1993, made possible through
project financing, will keep some pest populations down for another few seasons.
14. In view of the urgency of the assistance to Moldovan agriculture, the Bank used an innovative and
rapid approach to project processing. A competent seven member team spent three weeks in the field,
during which, in a single mission, the project was fully identified, prepared, appraised, and negotiated.
Thirty three days after the mission's return the project was approved by the Board, eight days later it
became effective, and nine months later, by the end of 1993, it was essentially fully disbursed (98%).
15. The project was supervised three times. A short initial supervision was made in March 1993 in
conjunction with an Agricultural Sector Review mission; the second (and first full) supervision occurred
in September 1993 and the third (and final full) supervision was completed in May 1994. Some updated
information for the ICR was collected in December 1994 in combination with other mission assignments.
Supervision was carried out in a timely and competent fashion, as evidenced by project results.
16. The Borrower was committed and involved in the project throughout implementation. Both the
Ministry of Finance (MINFIN), and the then Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations (MFER), (absorbed
in spring 1994 into the Ministry of Economy) followed project implementation continuously and provided



- iv -
good cooperation to visiting missions. In line with Article IV of the Loan Agreement stipulating
maintenance of separate project records and accounts, the MINFIN created a special non-budget account
for project fund recovery from the Distribution Agents, set rules for prices of goods to be sold under the
project (essentially world market prices plus commission fees and handling costs), and monitored on a
monthly basis all financial transactions of the Importing Agent and the Distribution Agents.
17. Presentation of the one and only audit of the project accounts required by the Loan Agreement was
delayed by about four months. Despite the fact that it was the first audit prepared by Moldova for the
Bank or any other multilateral donor, it was of acceptable quality. The delay was understandable; it was
caused primarily by the spring 1993 parliamentary elections and changes in Government, by departures
of competent personnel with whom Bank missions had earlier contact and agreements for assignments in
the private sector, and by the general inexperience of the Borrower. The Borrower did not provide a
written Implementation Completion Report, but observations and comments of the various agencies have
been incorporated into this report. Government opinion of the project design and its implementation has
been highly complimentary.
18. The Importing Agent, MOLDEXIM, performed commendable work, largely based on its previous
commercial experience. It was very competently assisted by the project financed procurement and
disbursement Consultants recruited by the then MFER. All the Distribution Agents had ample experience
with supply and distribution, and an established country-wide network of warehouses and supply depots,
which ensured a timely and equitable distribution of the inputs procured under the project.
19. Project implementation and results are rated as highly satisfactory. The well targeted project
interventions contributed to substantial increases in agricultural production in 1993. The solid performance
in Moldova's most important sector in 1993 also greatly contributed to macroeconomic stabilization.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
20. The Drought Emergency Recovery Project was designed as a short term emergency operation and
there are no provisions for a future operation. The Bank made a Rehabilitation loan of $ 60 million in
October 1993, a Structural Adjustment loan of $ 60 million in December 1994, and a Pre-export Loan
Guarantee Facility of $ 30 million in March 1995. An Agricultural Sector Review was completed in
February 1995 and in line with its policy recommendations an Agricultural Restructuring Project is under
preparation and an Agricultural Sector Adjustment loan and an Irrigation project are in the pipeline. These
projects will be discussed with the Government as part of a three year agricultural investment program
which will be the centerpiece of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for the same period.
21. The summary of main lessons learned:
(a) Projects of this type work well if they have clear, well defined, and simple objectives; a
committed Government; adequate infrastructure including, in this case, storage and transportation
capacity; and, a farming community eager for assistance;
(b) An essential pre-condition for successful preparation of this type of emergency project, mostly
technical in character, is selection of competent professionals for Bank missions who are able to do
the assignment expertly and quickly. Rapid understanding of the country's agro-ecological conditions
and farming systems, quick analyses of operational constraints, and a clear and realistic identification
of priority components to be financed under the project, is a key step to success;



- v -
(c) First time projects in inexperienced Borrower countries require higher than average
implementation support from the Bank through more frequent supervision missions and well targeted
technical assistance. In-country assistance for several weeks or even months for procurement, and to
a lesser degree disbursement, is unavoidable for fast implementation;
(d) Importation of bulky commodities into inexperienced landlocked Borrower countries with little
known customs and handling procedures in country of transit, as well as destination, might cause
special problems to potential bidders. Careful preparation of bidding documents taking account of
potential constraints for bid validity, delivery dates, and transportation arrangements are very
important. Contract management after bid award has also been found to require heightened attention
and support;
(e) Contrary to some uninformed beliefs, it is not only possible but also economically well justified,
to introduce modem technology into FSU countries in transition, provided the technology is well
selected and adapted; and
(f) Importations of machinery components and spare parts destined for full assembly in FSU
Borrower countries can be successfully used to promote excellent west/east technical cooperation.






IPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOLDOVA
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
Loan no. 3569 MD
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.  Moldova is a densely settled rural country in which agriculture and food processing directly support
more than half of the population. Agriculture contributes approximately 40% of GDP, more than half of
the population of 4.4 million lives in rural areas, and food processing is a major employer within the
industrial sector. Important products include fruits and berries for processing, tobacco, wine grapes, winter
wheat, maize, and grain-intensive livestock. Around half a million ha (about 21 % of agricultural land) are
under fruit, vegetable and vineyard cultivation. These high value crops are more prone to pest infestation
than most annual field crops. The product mix reflects Moldova's labor-intensive resource base as well
as its fertile soils.
2.  The Republic of Moldova became independent on August 27, 1991, at a time of severe economic
dislocation as a result of the disintegration of the USSR. This dislocation was exacerbated by serious civil
disturbance in the Trans-Dniester region (where the Russian minority is strongly represented) from March
to July 1992, and a massive terms of trade shock as Russian energy prices rose toward world levels.
Moldova's membership in the Ruble area meant that these developments took place against the background
of considerable macroeconomic instability. By the end of 1992, GDP was estimated to have declined by
over 40 percent since 1990, and inflation had reached 1500 percent on an annual basis.
3.  In the summer of 1992, this situation was compounded by the worst drought since 1946. Much lower
than normal rains in mid and late summer, coupled with significantly higher than average temperatures,
and an unusually high incidence of days with hot dry winds (sukhovei), inflicted heavy damage on annual
crops, as well on as fruits and vineyards. In July and August, some of Moldova's districts received less
than 20% of their normal monthly rainfall; hardest hit were the southern districts, but also many districts
in the center and north were badly affected. As a result of this unfortunate combination of meteorological
effects, overall cereal production declined by 32%, of which maize declined by 58%. Further serious
decreases in yield and production occurred in sugar beet, tobacco, and soybeans. Fruits were 30-40% of
normnal yields, and grapes only half their usual yields. Valuation of the direct loss in output in the crop
sector at domestic prices prevailing on average in 1992 (about third quarter, 1992) amounted to some 40
billion Rubles (about US $100 million) or approximately 16% of Moldovan GDP in 1992. The large
quantitative loss, coming at a time of profound political and economic change, had a further impact
through slowing of the momentum of economic reforms.
4.   Agricultural chemicals, fuel, fertilizers, and spare parts are predominantly imported, traditionally
from the former Soviet Union, although there were some western imports transshipped through Moscow.
Because of the massive downtum in earnings, neither the farms nor the Government had reserves to
finance commercial imports, even though the country could ill afford to risk the large losses likely, if
vines and orchards already weakened by the 1992 drought were exposed unprotected to the 1993 season's
diseases and insects, and if essential spare parts and feed components were unavailable for the coming



production season.
5.  Moldova joined the Bank on August 12, 1992. This loan was the first to the country. Bank missions
worked in very close collaboration with the Moldovan authorities, and a fruitful policy dialogue
developed. The missions have been consistently impressed by the professionalism of an overburdened
administration, laboring with the enormous task of creating an independent state.
Project Objectives
6. The general economic downturn, due in part to the drought, had channelled the attention of sectoral
managers toward short-term crisis management. While in the medium-term there was need for further
institutional and policy reforms, in the short-term external assistance had to be targeted to arresting the
deterioration in the agricultural sector and restoring productive capacity.
7. The Bank's objective in funding this loan was to provide the Government of Moldova with urgently
needed resources to assist recovery from the catastrophic 1992 drought. The project aimed to increase the
availability of food for the domestic economy and exports, and to facilitate a reduction of poverty, through
the restoration of production in the most important sector of the economy. It did so by providing inputs
that were essential for the (then) coming agricultural season (beginniing in March 1993). At the same time
the loan aimed to assist in narrowing the balance of payments gap resulting from substantial incremental
food imports and the sharp decline in agricultural exports resulting from the drought.
8.  The project's objectives were substantially achieved. Despite the late start for processing of the
project (in the field in mid-January 1993), the bulk of the imported inputs arrived in time and could be
utilized for the 1993 agricultural season. Competent technical assistance for procurement and disbursement
played a major role in project implementation, given the Borrower's lack of experience with the Bank.
The resulting increased production of major crops assisted in availability of food, poverty reduction, and
export promotion. The process of project implementation resulted in substantial familiarization with Bank
procedures. The institutional capability in terms of financial management and discipline, and procurement
and disbursement procedures, in the enterprises involved in the project was considerably strengthened.
The Proiect
9.  The cooperation between Moldovan authorities and the Bank's preparation/appraisal mission was
excellent. A detailed technical analysis of the most urgently required inputs for drought recovery was
carried out in collaboration with several specialized supply agencies, based on thorough knowledge of the
country's aero-ecology and agricultural systems by competent local technical professionals. The close
interaction during project preparation ensured a clear and realistic estimation of the priority goods needed,
including precise delivery schedules, and detailed modes of storage, distribution, and sales. The day-to-
day collaboration with the Bank ensured the Borrower's intimate knowledge, ownership, and complete
commitment to the project.
10. The project financed inputs for the 1993 agricultural season, targeted towards those sectors which
appeared to have a long-term comparative advantage. A positive list of goods had been agreed to each of
the four categories of inputs. The Bank loan of $ 26 million included retroactive financing amounting to
US $5.2 million for seeds and agricultural machines and spare parts, and a Project Preparation Advance
of $ 150,000 for technical assistance. The final beneficiaries, mostly former cooperative and state farms,
were fully responsible for the local costs of the project, which consisted of the costs of storage and
distribution, estimated at 20% of the value of the inputs financed by the project, or US $5.2 million.



-3-
Implementation Experience and Results
Project Management
11. The Ministry for Foreign Economic Relations (MFER) and the Ministry of Finance (MINFIN) were
responsible for the implementation of the project and they supervised the functions of the Importing and
Distribution Agents. A Vice-Minister was in charge of the operation.
12. MFER appointed MOLDEXIM, one of its agencies, as the Importing Agent responsible for the
procurement and importation of all goods financed under the loan. Technical Assistance was procured
directly by the MFER.
13. The Importing Agent transferred the imported goods to the Distribution Agents, who were responsible
for their distribution and sales to the final users. The Government identified the following Distribution
Agents, all of which were Govemment agencies:
FERTILITATEA,         for the agrochemicals;
CEREALE,              for the seeds, seed equipment and poultry feed; and
ARKA MOLDOVA,    for the agricultural spare parts.
Technical Assistance
14. Since neither the importing agent nor the Government had any experience in procurement and
disbursement for World Bank operations, it was agreed with the Government that technical assistance was
essential to ensure speedy implementation of the project. A Procurement and a Disbursement consultant
were identified and recruited under a PPF. Government decided that the consultants would report to the
MFER and would assist MOLDEXIM.
Delivery Schedule of Goods
15. MOLDEXIM carried out all procurement activities with the guidance and advice from the consultant
team. A procurement plan was prepared on the basis of positive lists of imports furnished by the
Distribution Agents to MOLDEXIM. These lists included quantities, technical specifications, target
delivery dates, delivery points, packing information, and transportation modes. In accordance with the
Procurement Schedule of the Loan Agreement, the following goods were to be procured competitively:
(a) Over 1,300 tons of 15 different agrochemicals (estimated at $ 15.7 million), the bulk of which
was to be delivered between April 1 and May 15, with the remaining about 70 tons required by
August 1, 1993;
(b) About 40,000 tons of poultry feed ($ 6 million), consisting of 26,000 tons of grain maize, 10,000
tons of fodder barley, and 4,000 tons of soybean seedcake, to be delivered by end May, 1993;
(c) Twelve thousand units of sugar beet seed estimated to cost $ 800,000 and to be received by April
10, and 150 tons of soybean seed valued at 200,000 and to be delivered by April 15, 1993; and
(d) Some 1,500 heavy duty batteries ($ 200,000) for tractors and loaders, to be delivered by May 31,
and spare parts ($ 1.8 million) for forage harvesters, fertilizer distributors, pesticide sprayers,
irrigation equipment, milking and refrigerating machines, and diesel engines, to be delivered between
April and June, 1993.



-4 -
Project Implementation
Agrochemicals
16. Agrochemicals represented some 60% of project costs and were the single most critical component,
in terms of availability and timeliness, for the implementation of the 1993 agricultural season. Seven
agrochemicals, required in accordance with the established Moldovan agricultural calendar by April 15,
were procured through IS, while the remaining ones with target delivery dates May I and later were
purchased through LIB procedures. Companies from seven countries participated in the bidding and price
competition was satisfactory. The benefits of competitive purchasing were highlighted by substantial
variations in bid prices and an overall saving of over $ 840,000 from the estimated cost of $ 15.7 million,
providing a valuable example for the Borrower who had in the past consistently resorted to direct
contracting, and was initially unreceptive to international competition.
17. All agrochemicals arrived in Moldova in time for the growing season and had a highly visible and
positive impact on production. According to Ministry of Agriculture estimates, without the project supplied
agrochemicals less than half (30-40%) of the actual yields in treated orchards, vineyards and vegetables,
and only about 70% of the actual yields in treated field crops would have been achieved. Although these
estimates might look somewhat optimistic,.field confirmation of similar results was obtained in several
enterprises. One example is the former kolkhoz "Nistru" in Dondusheni district, which received project
supplied pesticides for fruit crops. The farm has 800 ha of orchards and the best production they ever had
from this area before was 3,500 tons; in 1993 the harvested 6,000 tons, an increase of 70%.
18. Overall, the impact of the project financed inputs, coupled with a more normal rainfall season in
1993, has been probably best demonstrated in the most pest-prone crops, such as fruits, grapes, potatoes
and sugar beet, where the modem pesticides, and in the case of beet the modem drills and hybrid seed
were mostly used. Fruit production in 1993 more than doubled compared to 1992 (1,038,000 t versus
511,000 t, and it was 49% higher than in 1991). Grape production increased by 7%, potato production
with 45,700 t was 36% higher than in 1992, and sugar beet production rose by 14%. These figures cannot,
of course, strictly isolate the impact of project financed modem agrochemicals, because for no single crop
group was the quantity of the chemical sufficient to treat adequately the whole nationally cultivated area.
19. In comparison to 1991, fruit production was 49% higher, grape production 14%, potato production
45%, but sugar beet declined by 11% in 1993. However, the sugar beet area cultivated with project-
imported inputs gave outstanding results (para 27). The agricultural season of 1994 was affected by yet
another disastrous drought and other climatic calamities, with production of all crops, except potatoes and
fruits, falling even below 1992 levels.
20. Table I below gives an indication of the total areas of the more important crops which were treated
with crop protection chemicals. These include, however, in addition to the project supplied pesticides,
another up to 4,000 tons of pesticides (of which 88% sulphur and copper based fungicides), which
Moldova secured from countries of the FSU. A treatment coefficient (TC) of I in the table would mean
that the equivalent of the entire cultivated area was treated once with crop protection chemicals.
21. It is evident from Table I that fruits and grapes, followed by vegetables and sugar beet, received the
most pest control attention in the 1993 season. It is further evident that fungus diseases posed the biggest
threat to fruit and grape production.



Table 1  Areas Treated with Crop Protection Chemicals in 1993
Major Crop Areas                    Areas Treated in 1993 with
Cultivated in 1993 (ha)      Insecticides    J   Fungicides      Herbicides  J
__ _ - _ _ _ ha  TC     ha     TC        ha      TC
Fruits           203,800      487,100    2.4   591,700    2.9      2,900   <0.1
Grapes           161,720       29,400    0.2   473,200    2.9      1,400   <0.1
Vegetables        74,160       42,300    0.6    65,000    0.9      8,300   0.1
| Sugar beet      80,000 l    78,100    1.0        400   <0.1   43,400   0
[Source: FERTILITATEA 
Environmental Effect
22. In 1992/93, there was a great qualitative difference between pesticides produced in countries of the
FSU, and those produced in western countries. The latter are considerably safer, more efficient, have a
faster rate of biodegradability, and require much lower quantities of active ingredient (a.i.) per unit area.
Some of the best pesticides required only several hundred grams, or even less, of a.i. per ha, while for
many of the FSU pesticides 5-8 kg/ha had to be applied, and in extreme cases well over 30 kg/ha of
a.i.was needed, to achieve the desired pest control effect.
23. Moldovan crop protection specialists estimated, that if the country could procure the whole national
requirement of pesticides in the state-of-the-art class, the total annual quantity needed would shrink to
around 5,300 to 5,600 t of physical weight (ready made formulations), instead of the then required 25,000
t (already down from 53,000 tons used in 1984). From the above assessment it is clear that the modern
pesticides imported under the project had a significantly positive environmental impact.
Harvest and Post-harvest Losses
24. Some criticism was raised that due to project interventions production of selected crops in some
localities was so high that farms were unable to handle the quantities produced and that inordinately high
losses were incurred during harvesting and post-harvest handling. According to information from the
Minister of Agriculture on this topic, losses were no heavier than in some other years. Enough labor was
mobilized for harvesting, as people from factories came to assist the farms. Transport facilities were also
adequate, but in many cases there was such a catastrophic shortage of fuel that some produce simply could
not be evacuated from field to market. About 10,000 tons of apples in the north of the country, several
thousand tons of cabbage, and about 1,000 ha of sugar beet remained unharvested. The situation was
exacerbated by unusually early and heavy frosts (-15°C) at the beginning of November 1993 which lasted
for several days.
25. In general, losses in fruits, vegetables and other perishables are higher than in field crops. In the US,
for instance, harvest and post-harvest losses in tomatoes of 15% are considered quite normal, and some
estimates go even higher and assess potential losses at one third, and exceptionally even one half, of the
standing crop in highly perishable crops.



-6 -
Seeds and Drills
26. Retroactive financing was made available to speed up procurement of about 5,000 units of hybrid
monogerm sugar beet seed which, according to Moldova's established agricultural calendar,was required
by April 1. A complementary part of the modem technology to be used in sugar beet production was the
importation of 25 "Multicorn" precision seeders, and a further number of "cores" (the sophisticated actual
seeding mechanism) adequate for another 26 precision drills to be assembled into complete drills in a
Moldovan agricultural machine factory.
27. The seeds and drills arrived in time for the season and, together with the project imported
agrochemicals, provided a substantial part of modem sugar beet production technology, which accounted
for a success story in the 1993 production. The improved sugar beet technology was applied on a total
area of 4231 ha. Monitoring and evaluation of the 40 large farms (former kolkhozes and sovkhozes),
which received the imported technology, revealed very satisfactory results. According to a detailed survey
initiated by the Bank and carried out in the farms by the Ministry of Agriculture, only 1.3 seed units per
ha were used with the imported seed sown with precision seeders, compared to over 3 seed units per ha
of the local hybrid sown with local seeders. The average area sown by one imported precision seeder was
a satisfactory 170 ha. The average beet yield was 22% higher with the imported seed (320q/ha against 262
q/ha), and the output of sugar was 36% higher (50.7 q/ha versus 37.2 q/ha). Peak beet yields of the
imported varieties were in the region of 440-500 q/ha and highest sugar output increments were in the area
of 27 to 33 q/ha.
28. Contrary to some uninformed and naive opinions which can be occasionally heard even in the Bank,
the above case clearly demonstrates that it is not only possible, but also economically well justified, to
introduce modem technology rapidly into agricultural systems of countries of the FSU which are in
transition, provided the technology is competently selected and well adapted. The practical conclusion of
the sugar beet story was that the average incremental yield of 1.35 t/ha sugar on the 4200+ ha effectively
allowed to recover, in financial terms, the investment cost of the 25 precision seeders, plus the cost of
state-of-the-art seed, in one single agricultural season more than twice over.
29. The 26 imported seed "cores" were successfully completed into fully functional precision drills by
the Moldovan factory and gave, according to monitoring by MAF, satisfactory performance. The
interaction during assembly between the western supplier and the Moldovan machinery factory can be
considered as an excellent example of west/east technical and commercial cooperation. The western
supplier made available all technical documentation, provided training in its workshops in the west to
Moldovan engineers, and ensured the presence of its own technical personnel for advice and supervision
during the assembly process in Moldova. The demand and satisfaction with the precision drills was such
that the Government imported for the 1994 season another 62 multicom machines (maize, sugar beet,
sunflower, soya) through its own financial arrangements.
30. International shopping procedures were used to invite bids for the supply of another 12,000 units of
hybrid sugar beet seed and 150 t of soybean seed. The bids for sugar beet seed were rejected by the
evaluation committee on technical grounds and the amount of $ 800,000 was transferred to the poultry
feed component. No bids were received for soybean seed with the result that the Bank agreed to direct
procurement with a Romania supplier. The delivery was completed in a timely fashion.



-7-
Spare Parts
31. Commercial batteries were procured through the competitioni of six companies through International
Shopping, and they arrived within the targeted delivery date. Spare parts for a range of agricultural
machines were of necessity procured throughi direct contracting, since the parts were produced only by
suppliers of the original machines. These suppliers, located in the former German Democratic Republic
and Poland, in some cases had ceased to exist. After some initial difficulties MOLDEXIM located four
companies which were able to supply the spares. Despite delayed delivery, the majority of the spares were
sold in 1993. with only a small carryover into 1994.
Poultry Feed
32. In accordance with the Procurement Schedule of the Loan Agreement, ICB procedures were followed
for the supply of feed maize, fodder barley and soybean seedcake. Bid prices were requested on a
"Delivered at Frontier" basis. Although eleven companies purchased the bidding documents, no bids were
received by the deadline for submission, mostly because potential suppliers were unable to communicate
with the Odessa Port Authority and were concerned about timely receipt of necessary clearances and
authorizations. Consequently, the delivery tenn was changed to CIF Odessa and the Bank authorized the
Borrower to use loan proceeds to pay separately for the foreign currency cost of transportation to the
Moldovan border. Some suppliers also had problems with the required bid validity period of 15 days
which they considered too long for this kind of commodity, and others indicated that the relatively small
quantities were not worth the effort to go into complex. little known, and risky shipping arrangements.
After a repeated ICB with simplified documents, a shortened bid validity, and adjusted terms of shipments,
bids were received and evaluated, and shipment of barley and soybean seedcake was completed by mid-
August 1993. The evaluated bidder of feed maize failed to deliver, forcing MOLDEXIM to terminate the
contract. In view of the continuing urgent need for poultry feed and the limited storage life of the
components already purchased, the Bank agreed to retender uSinig accelerated ICB procedures. Four bids
were received in early November, the maize was delivered to Odessa at the end of December and to
Moldova in early January 1994.
Sale and Refunding Mechanism
33. All Distributing Agents were expected to sell the agrochemicals and other goods funded and imported
under the project for money. no payment in kind was accepted. The original schedule demanded that farms
pay 50% of the market price at delivery and 50% after harvest. The Distribution Agents were requested
to repay the funds collected from sales into a non-budgetary account with the Ministry of Finance,
especially established for this purpose. However, because of the overall inter-enterprise payment arrears
in the Moldovan economy (which caused farmers not to be paid until several months after delivering
produce), and in order not to endanger the implementation of the 1993 agricultural season, in the end
compromises had to be made in cases where farms were absolutely unable to make the 50%
down payment.
34. The collection mechanism whicih the Distribution Agents often introduced, in cooperation with the
local banks, was such that the Agents prepared an account (invoice) for each farm which was delivered
to the farms' respective banks in the ravons; then, whenever farms received some money into their
accounts, the banks automatically deducted funds in favor of the Agent's account (a system called "inkaso"
in Moldova). By December 1994, MINFIN recovered about 26% of outstanding funds into the non-
budgetary account. Of this, FERTILITATEA repaid 46% of its obligations, ARKA Moldova 65%, and
CEREALE 9%. The Distribution Agents delegated portions of project financed inputs to other parastatals,



of which SAKHARPROM (responsible for sugar production, handled sugar beet seed and precision drills)
repaid 100%, MOLDAGROTEKH:NIKA (assembled precision seeders) 0%, and PORUMBENI (maize
research and seed production complex, received some spare parts) 100%. The quest by MINFIN for the
recovery of outstanding funds is continuing, but it has been hampered by another climatically disastrous
season in 1994, with severe late frosts in May, a drought that equaled the one of 1992 in summer, and
damaging floods in the fall.
Training
35. Neither MOLDEXIM nor Government were familiar with Bank policies and procedures and both had
little experience with international market practices. Therefore, in addition to in-service training through
project implementation, the Consultants conducted two fornal training sessions for selective
representatives of Government agencies which were likely to be involved in the implementation of future
Bank projects. The first session addressed procurement issues with particular, but not exclusive, focus on
contracts financed by the Bank. The second session covered Bank disbursement procedures. The seminars
were carried out in mid-May 1993 and were well attended and appreciated by the participants.
36. In addition, the consultant for procurement prepared for the Government an excellent procurement
guideline entitled "International Procurement Procedures and their Legal Aspects - a Practical Manual",
which was reportedly translated into Russian. The manual explains the definition and basic principles of
procurement, bidding documentation, contract preparation and management, dispute resolution etc., and
provides logical flowcharts of performance methods, types of contracts, and evaluation and awards. The
manual should provide Borrower agencies with a valuable tool for competitive procurement under diverse
sources of financing.
Project Sustainability
37. The project restored production in the agricultural sector by providing essential inputs rather than
capital assets. The sustainability in the agricultural sector depends in the medium term on progress in
policy reform and economic restructuring. The project contributed to sustainability by reducing the risk
that the restructuring process would be retarded or even reversed.
38. In general, the question of sustainability doesn't arise as much in emergency projects financing annual
inputs. However, this project generated some longer-term beneficial effects which are worth mentioning.
A fruitful technical cooperation emerged between Moldova and the western firn which delivered the
essential technical elements for assembly of precision seeders. The excellent sugar beet results achieved
with western technology in 1993 encouraged the Government to import further seed and precision drills
for 1994 under its own financing. Continued application of this modern production technology is likely
to become a permanent feature of Moldovan agriculture. The critical spare parts delivered under the
project for some essential machines (drills, fertilizer spreaders, sprayers, forage harvesters) are likely to
extend the economic life of these machines for a number of years. It is safe to assume that the well-
targeted crop protection applications of 1993, made possible through project financing, will keep some
pest populations down for another few seasons.
Bank Performance
39. In view of the urgency of the assistance to Moldovan agriculture, the Bank used an innovative and
rapid approach to project processing. A well selected seven member team spent three weeks in the field,
during which (in a single mission) the project was fully identified, prepared, appraised, and negotiated.



-9-
Thirty three days after mission return the project was approved by the Board, eight days later it became
effective, and nine months later, by the end of 1993, it was essentially fully disbursed.
40. The project was supervised three times. A short initial supervision was carried out in March 1993 in
conjunction with an Agricultural Sector Review mission, the second (and first full) supervision was made
in September 1993, the third and final full supervision was completed in May 1994. Some updated
information for the ICR was collected in December 1994 in combination with other mission assignments.
Supervision was carried out in a timely and competent fashion, as evidenced by the speed of project
implementation.
Borrower Performance
41. The Borrower was consistently committed and involved. Both the MfNFIN and the then MFER
(absorbed in spring 1994 into the Ministry of Economy) followed project implementation continuously
and offered good cooperation to visiting missions. In accordance with Article IV of the Loan Agreement
stipulating maintenance of separate project records and accounts, the MINFIN created a special non-budget
account for project fund recovery from the Distribution Agents, set rules for prices of goods to be sold
under the project (essentially world market prices plus commission fees and handling costs), and monitored
on a monthly basis all financial transactions of the Importing Agent and the Distribution Agents.
42. Presentation of the only audit of the project accounts required by the Loan Agreement was delayed
by about four months. Despite the fact that it was the first audit prepared for the Bank, it was of greater
detail than required and of acceptable quality. The delay was understandable; it was caused primarily by
spring 1993 parliamentary elections and changes in Government, by departures of competent personnel,
with whom Bank missions had earlier contact and agreements, for assignments in the private sector, and
by the general inexperience of the Borrower. The Borrower did not provide a written Implementation
Completion Report, but observations and comments of the various agencies have been incorporated in this
report. Government opinion of the project design and its implementation has been highly complimentary.
43. The Importing Agent MOLDEXIM performed commendable work, largely based on its previous
commercial experience, and it was very competently assisted by the project-financed procurement and
disbursement Consultants recruited by the then MFER. All the Distribution Agents had a lot of experience
with supply and distribution, had a well established country-wide network of warehouses and supply
depots, and essentially ensured a timely and fair distribution of the inputs procured under the project.
Assessment of Outcome
44. Project implementation and results are rated as highly satisfactory. Project objectives were
substantially achieved and the well targeted project interventions contributed to good agricultural
production in 1993. The solid performance in this, Moldova's most important sector, in 1993 also greatly
contributed to macroeconomic stabilization of the whole economy.
Future Operations
45. The Drought Emergency Recovery Project was designed as a short-term emergency operation and
there are no provisions for a future operation. In the meantime, the Bank has approved a Rehabilitation
Project of $ 60 million in October 1993, a Structural Adjustment Loan of $ 60 million in December 1994,
and a Pre-export Loan Guarantee Facility of $ 30 million in March 1995. An Agricultural Sector Review
was completed in February 1995, and in line with its policy framework an Agricultural Restructuring



- 10 -
Project is under preparation, and an Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan and an Irrigation Project are in
the pipeline. These projects will be discussed with the Government as part of a three year agricultural
investment program which will be the centerpiece of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for the same
period.
Lessons Learned
46. (a) Projects of this type work well if they have clear, well identified and defined simple objectives;
a committed Government; adequate infrastructure including storage capacity; and, a farming
community eager for assistance;
(b) An essential condition for successful preparation of this kind of emergency project, of mostly
technical character, is careful selection of experienced professionals for Bank missions who are able
to do the assignment competently and quickly. Rapid understanding of the country's agro-ecological
conditions and farming systems, as well as rapid analysis of operational constraints, and a clear and
realistic identification of priority components to be financed under the project, is a key step to
success;
(c) First time projects in inexperienced Borrower countries require higher than average
implementation support from the Bank through more intensive supervision and well targeted technical
assistance. Particularly, residential assistance for several weeks or even months for procurement, and
to a lesser degree disbursement, is unavoidable for fast implementation. It should be in the TOR of
the resident TA to not only provide in-service training during project implementation, but to also
conduct more fornal training sessions and leave behind written guidelines incorporating the specific
country experience;
(d) Importation of bulky commodities into inexperienced landlocked Borrower countries with little
known customs and handling procedures in country of transit, as well as destination, might cause
special problems to potential bidders. Careful preparation of bidding documents taking account of
potential constraints for bid validity, delivery dates and transportation arrangements are very
important. Contract management after bid award has also been found to require heightened attention
and support;
(e) Contrary to some uninformed beliefs, it is not only possible, but also economically well justified,
to introduce modern technology into FSU countries in transition, provided the technology is well
selected and adapted; and
(f) Importations of machinery components and spare parts destined for full assembly in FSU
Borrower countries can be successfully used to promote excellent west/east technical and commercial
cooperation.



- 11 -
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:   Project Costs
Table 8B:   Project Financing
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table I 1:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions



I



- 12 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives       Substantial     Partial    Negligible     Not Applicable
Macro policies                      O              1           0               El
Sector policies                    C1El Oa
Financial objectives                              El           El 0     
Institutional development                         E            E               El
Physical objectives                               El a         °
Poverty reduction                                 ElaEl                        El
Gender issues                       El             l           E l
Other social objectives            ElE                         El              IXC
Enviromnental objectives                          El           E               El
Public sector management            Il            E            0]
Private sector development          DE                         El              1C
Other (specify)                                   El                           ElC
B. Project sustainability             N/A                  Unlikely            Uncertain
Cm                    1:E                   El
C. Bank Performance            Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory          Deficient
Identification                      Xl                                         El
Preparation assistance                                      l                  ElO
Appraisal                           C                                          El
Supervision                         X                                          El
D. Borrower performance        Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                         Xl                                         El
Implementation                                            El                   El
Covenant compliance                 El                                         El
Operation (if applicable)          El                     E                    E
E. Assessment of outcome       Highly Satisfactory Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory Highly Unsatisfactory
X             1:E          E               ElO



- 13 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title              Purpose            Year of Approval              Status
Preceding Operations
1. N/A
Following Operations
1. Rehab. Proj.}     Support Reform Prog.            1993                     HS
2. SAL        }      Support Reforn Prog.             1994                    HS
3. Pre-Export  }     Support Reform Prog.             1995                    HS
Guarantee }
Facility }
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Circle                           Date planned          Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)          12-23-92              12-23-92
Preparation                                         01-23-93              01-23-93
Appraisal                                           02-01-93              02-01-93
Negotiations                                        02-04-93              02-04-93
Letter of development policy (if applicable)          N/A
Board presentation                                  03-11-93              03-11-93
Signing                                             03-15-93              03-15-93
Effectiveness                                       03-19-93              03-19-93
First tranche release (if applicable)                 N/A
Midterm review (if applicable)                        N/A
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)    N/A
Project completion                                  10-31-93              12-30-93
Loan closing                                        03-31-94              03-31-94



- 14 -
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
Appraisal                  Actual As
IBRD Fiscal Year       Estimate       Actual    Percentage of
(US$ thousands)          Estimate
1993               20.0        16.0           62.0
1994                6.0         9.8          163.0
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated                       Actual
I. Key implementation indicators in SAR
1. Project Completion                    10-31-93                       12-30-93
2. Loan Closing                          03-31-94                       03-31-94
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated                       Actual
L. Key operating indicators in SAR
N/A
H. Modified indicators (if applicable)
N/A
11. Modified indicators for future operation (if applicable)
N/A
Table 7: Studies Included in Project - N/A



- 15 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate              Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                    (US$ million)
Item                                  Local   Foreign    Total         Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs                   costs     costs
1.                                             26.0      26.0                   25.8        25.8
Total                           26.0      26.0                    25.8       25.8
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate              Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                    (US$ million)
Source                                Local   Foreign    Total         Local    Foreign    Total
costs    costs                   costs     costs
1. IBRD/IDA                                     26.0      26.0                   25.8       25.8
2. Cofinancing Institutions
3. Other external sources
4. Domestic contribution             5.2                   5.2       5.0                      5.0
Total                 5.2        26.0      31.2       5.0         25.8       30.8
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits - N/A
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
MOLDOVA
Emergency Drought Recovery
Covenant          Original    Revised
Agreement  Section   Type    Status  Fulfillment Fulfillment Description of Covenant Comments
Date       Date
LA         4.01(a)     F        C       4/93        N/A    Separate records/
account
LA         4.01(b)     F       CD       6/94        10/94    Audit



- 16 -
Covenant type:                                                                            Present Status
* Accounts/audits                     * Monitoring/reviews                                C = covenant complied with
* Cofinancing                         * Procurement                                       CD = complied with after delay
* Consultation                        * Project implementation arrangements               CP = complied with partialy
* Cost recovery/pricing                  (including project coordination units)           NC = not complied with
* Counterpart funding                 * Remedies
* Dam safety                           * Resettlement
* Disbursement definitions/conditions  * Sector policy conditionality:
(including special accounts)          administrative change
* Engineering                         * Sector policy conditionality:
* Environmental                          budgetary/allocative change
* Facilities maintenance              * Sector policy conditionality: regulatory
* Financial                              change
* General conditions (section 1.01 of the  * Sector policy conditionality: other
Loan or Credit Agreement)           * Studies/technical assistance
* Institutional (involving other than  * Subproject/subloan criterai and
project coordination units)           procedures
* Subsidiray agreements
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                            Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1.                                         N/A
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                         Revised                           Actual
Stage of project cycle           Weeks         US$           Weeks           US$                 Weeks          USS
Through appraisal
Appraisal - Board approval          0           0              8.8           29.8                 15.2          51.5
Board approval -
Effectiveness
Supervision                         15         53.4            7             24.9                  7            24.9
Completion                          11         41.3            6             22.4                  6            22.4
Total                           26          94.7           21.8           77.1                 28.2          98.8



- 17 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
No. of Days in                             Rating 2           Types of
Stage of project cycle      Month/Year  Persons   Field   Specialization   Implementation Development Problems
status      objectives
Through appraisal
Appraisal - Board approval   Jan/Mar. 93    7       105         A,E,L            I              I          N/A
Board approval -
Effectiveness
Supervision                   Mar/93        1        5            A               1             1           M
Sep/93       1        8            A               I             1           M
May/94        1       10           A               I              I           M
Completion                    Dec/94        1        2            A               I             I           M
Total                                             130
I- Specialization                           2 - Performance Rating                3 - Types of Problems
A = Agriculturalist                          I = Minor problems                   F =  Financial
E = Economist                                2 = Moderate Problems                T = Technical
D = Education Specialist                     3 = Major Problems                   M = Managerial
F = Financial Analyst
H = Horticulturist
L = Livestock Specialist
M = Marketing Specialist
N = Engineer
R = Forester
M:\OH\MOL\Evalsum.ICR



APPENDIX A
MOLDOVA
SUPERVISION OF EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT (LOAN 3569 MD).
PREPARATION OF PROPOSED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AIDE MEMOIRE
(May 1994)
INTRODUCTION
A World Bank mission consisting of Mr.Oskar Honisch of EC4NR (Natural Resource
Management Division, Europe and Central Asia Region) visited Moldova from May 18-25, 1994
to:
(i) carry out the final supervision of the Emergency Drought Recovery Project (Loan 3569 MD),
and (ii) continue preparation of the proposed Agricultural Development Project (ADP).
The mission met with HE the Minister of Finance Mr.V.Kitsan, HE the Minster of Agriculture
Mr.V. Gorincioi, with Mr.A.Arapu of the Ministry of Economy and with other officials of these
ministries, as well as with officials of the institutions carrying out the Drought Emergency Project -
- the procurement agent Moldexim, the distributors Fertilitatea, Arka Moldova, Cereale and
beneficiaries Sakharprom and Avicola. The mission met also with Mr.E.Herrmann, resident
coordinator of the GTZ to discuss areas of potential cooperation. The mission wishes to
acknowledge with thanks the friendly reception and the fruitful discussions held with all parties
visited. The following are the mission's observations and recommendations, which are subject to
confirmation by World Bank's management.
SUPERVISION OF THE EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
Audit of Accounts. Project Completion Report
A meeting was held on May 19 with Mr.Anatoliy Arapu and Ms.Larissa Atamaniuk (Head
of the Department of External Financing) of the Ministry of Economy, to discuss the need to
prepare: (a) the first and final audit of the project accounts; and (b) the Government's Project
Completion Report.
The mission discussed the purpose of the audit with reference to Article IV, Section 4.01 -
Financial Covenants, subsection (b), (i) auditing of financial records, and (ii) submission of audits
to the Bank. The mission explained and left behind relevant documentation consisting of an
appropriate scope and format, designed by the Bank's Accounts and Audit Department for the audit
of this project which from the point of financial management can be considered as relatively
simple. According to Article IV of the Loan Agreement the deadline for the audit is June 30, 1994.
The former Minister of Finance, Ms.Melnik, suggested three potential local candidates as
competent to perform the audit -- the Revision Department of the Ministry of Finance, the Revision
Section of the Parliament, and the privatized firm Moldauditing. The mission explained that in its
opinion the latter candidate would appear most appropriate, since auditing by either of the former



2
two could be construed as a conflict of interest. Mr.Arapu and Ms.Atamaniuk saw no problem in
either the choice of the auditor or the date of the audit. The audit will be commissioned and
financed by the Government since no provisions were made in the Loan for other sources of
financing.
Concerning (b), the Project Completion Report (PCR), the mission explained that the
project procurement and disbursement is completed and the loan will be closed. In conformity with
Section 9.07 (c) of the WB's General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
dated January 1, 1985 it is the Borrower's obligation to write such a PCR. As an aide to
Government for writing the report, an example of a PCR of another emergency project (Bolivia -
Second Emergency Social Fund Project) was handed over to show the requested format for such a
report. Further, the mission left behind the Project Completion Report of IDBC, the procurement
consultant for this Loan. The PCR of IDBC contains most of the relevant information that has to be
brought up in the Government's PCR and it should essentially become an exercise of verifying,
completing, and presenting of the data and impressions on project implementation from the
Government's point of view. We agreed that Government would send the report to the Bank by
September 30, 1994 which is in line with stipulations of the General Conditions.
In a meeting with HE the Minister of Finance Mr.Valeriu Kitsan, and the Deputy Director
of External Financial Relations Ms.Victoria Lubashevski, we discussed the audit along similar lines
as with The Ministry of Economy. The mission explained that the audit of the Drought Emergency
Loan is a relatively simple one and handed over the suggested audit format prepared by WB's
Accounting and Auditing Department. It was also pointed out, however, that future projects will
very likely have more complex audits. To prepare MINFIN for the future audit requirements, the
mission left behind the Bank's Standard Terms of Reference (TOR) Working Example of an Audit
(as available in the Bank's Electronic Mail System), as well as the draft TOR for both parts of the
audit of the Russia Rehabilitation Loan (The Pre-identified Import Component, and the Moscow
Inter-Bank Foreign Currency Exchange Component). The Minister agreed that Moldauditing should
be given a chance to perform the audit and did not anticipate any problems with having it
completed by June 30, 1994.
Reimbursement to Special Account by Distributors
According to information received from the Ministry of Finance, by May 1, 1994 about
24% of the sum of Lei 26,366,998 (exchange rate conversion at time of border crossing of goods,
according to customs declaration) owed by distributors and beneficiaries were repaid into the
special non-budget account established for financial monitoring of project implementation.
Fertilitatea and Arka Moldova reimbursed 43 % each of their obligation, Sakharprom and the Maize
Research Institute Porumbeni had smaller loans and had reimbursed 100%, while Cereale's
repayment stood only at 9%, for reasons of unsold feed maize, explained below.



3
Sales of Imported Goods by Distributors
Fertilitatea received agrochemicals worth $ 15.7 M and sold to-date everything, with the
exception of about $ 300,000 worth of pesticides kept deliberately in reserve for spider mite control
in fruits and vegetables during the summer months when this pest appears.
Arka Moldova, out of the total value of $ 2 M spare parts, sold all but about $ 150,000
worth of sprayer parts which are expected to be sold in the current growing season.
Discussions with Cereale and Avicola revealed that out of the about 30,000 tons of feed
maize imported under the project in January 1994, some 27,000 tons have as yet been unutilized
and are lying in four Cereale warehouses. While Cereale (Deputy of President Mr. S.Crudu, and
Ms.M.Balakan, Dept.of Foreign Credits) assured the mission that the maize will be processed into
feed mixes and sold before the next maize harvest, Avicola (Director General Mr.I.P.Bizgu) voiced
serious apprehension that the maize might not be sold because of too high sales prices of the
feedmixes.
The mission expresses its serious concern on this issue for two reasons: (i) the maize was
procured as an emergency feed supply, predominantly for poultry breeding stock, and should be
used as such expeditiously; and (ii) the longer the maize remains in warehouses the higher are
likely to be the storage losses. The mission recommends with urgency that the Ministries concerned
(Agriculture, Economy and Finance) come quickly to a mutually acceptable solution through which
the maize can be speedily delivered for its original purpose.
Impact of Imported Sugarbeet Technology
Substantial elements of improved sugarbeet technology consisting of genetic monogerm
hybrid sugarbeet seed and precision drills imported under the project were applied on a total area of
4231 ha in the 1993 season. Monitoring and evaluation of the 40 large farms (former kolkhozes and
sovkhozes) which received the imported technology revealed very satisfactory results. According to
a detailed survey carried out in the farms, only 1.3 seed units per ha were used with the imported
seed sown with precision seeders, compared to over 3 seed units per ha of the local hybrid sown
with local seeders. The average area sown by one imported precision seeder was a satisfactory 170
ha. The average beet yield was 22% higher with the imported seed (320q/ha against 262 q/ha), the
average sugar content in the beet was 0.77% higher, and the output of sugar was 36% higher (50.7
q/ha versus 37.2 q/ha). Peak beet yields of the imported varieties were in the region of 440-500
q/ha and highest sugar output increments were in the area of 27 to 33 q/ha. The practical
conclusion to this exercise is that the incremental yield of 1.35 t/ha sugar on the 4200+ ha
effectively allowed to recover in financial terms the investment cost of the 25 precision seeders,
plus the cost of state-of-the-art seed, in one single agricultural season more than twice over.
The 26 seed units imported from Germany for assembly in Beltselmash were successfully
completed and gave almost an equally satisfactory performance as the machines which were
imported fully assembled. The demand and satisfaction with the precision drills was such that
Government imported for the 1994 season another 62 multicorn machines (maize, sugarbeet,
sunflower, soya) through own arrangements.






IBRD 24285R1
28°
I" [s,--  i  \rToNe,niroo                                                          MOLDOVA
N  li!ekj-y                           ~~U K R A I N E
0     SELECTED CITIES
<1   _  *  NATIONAL CAPITAL
1   9    So_>'-  ~RIVERS
48°                                                                                       48, l W s  <   i'  r     RAILROADS
y   <   tX   Floreshty-   -   ROADS
INTERNATIONAL
I'tsy <                    RybnirslBOUNDARIES
Fales                                              9 
To Birlo              Komrotd oin ioson   n
\  \               XL        9  \  vV                          on~~~~~~~~~~~ thi. mrwp d.   .
,          h        k <t                            Wo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          ~~~~~~~rreyav 91    *   9Jy, -ugt nth on-th /erf
.T   t   f      to,ritry a
46 ,                                                         Lungo               UKRAINEen
S r~~~~~~~O Lasi;                                                           ri  oriopn;l"f
INAU~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,                            }     _1 C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hirnishliyac  6 r              r
IR O M A N I A                                                                      r
.~~~~~~~~~~~T Briod                    Komr t8~         ,<               
2   /C    (l /)rOAta                            W~~~~~~~~~~ohTofrbunory-~,,
460                  ''                5 0                                                u   K   R  A   I N    E                          46
8'                   tgul            ;_8                                 (5)Vulk<n
,           >koneshr So 8Oivo~~Wgad                               > <
To Goa >        (       t(                                                           L A C K
KILOMETERS                      {          \X)          a.     
0         25          50         75        O                                                             @
MILES
I ''' 28°                               <             ,     I          30
JULY 1995









.:ji -. <--  1  .
.~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~ I.
., ~ ~ ~   ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      AC A  



