Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15694
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1995-GUI)
June 6, 1996
Western Africa Department
Population and Human Resources Division
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INIPLENIENTATION CONIPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SOCIO-ECONONIIC DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1995-GUI)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency uiit: Guinean Franc (GF)
Pcriod average. US S I equivalelt)
1988 =  GF 474
1989=  GF 592
19(0=  CGF 660
1991 =  GF 754
1994=  G CF 902
1993=  CF956
1994 =  GF 977
I QQ5=  GF 991
WEIGHTS AND MlEASURES
Metric sstcin
FISCAL YrEAR
Januar' I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMIS
ACDI           A*gence CW1no,diom,   le D171/eponit IniWrn11tio,1o
AtDF!TAF       African Development Fund;Technical Assistance Fund
BAD            Bunqtiue .4fricine cie Developcetnent
CIDA           Caniadiani Iiternational Development Agency
CNPS           Commission N\tion/tile dIC Polifiql eSoc ioloe
DCA            Development Credit Agreemenlt
DEIP           Diwision des Enqu.;tes ei Indic.s de Prix
DNIP           Direction NVionMile des Investiysestcnts Plublics
DNPE           Direotton N.iioommle oct Pl/n et de l Ecomnmie
DNSI           Diroeciion 2Vniicm:le zle d    .Siuisnque ei do leIn/ormatique
DRHPS          Divion /e.s Ro soturces funtine.s emie la Politique Sociale
FIBC           Euet lOe Imtliriet/voc volt "Budget ei Consownmtion"
FPNI           Entlitt3io Portn,inonie uupr/s dos Nitnuges
ESIP           Enq c/to sur le.s nfinolutitions Prioriocires cle L/iustenment Sructirel
FY             Fiscal Year
IDA            International Development Association
LPDH           Letire de Po/ii/icie dco De//elopoement Hutn,ain
NI PC         .111iiiisi/-e dill P'/ci7 et di, /i iloopcruiion
NN Gt)         Noni-GovermnieitLal Organi zatLjot
NPl-I          Naztioiial Poverty Task Force
ON C           Organi.satiot :Vont GCocvernnementtule
PADSE          Pro/et d 4ppui iiu Developpenicnt Socio-Economtique
P\ I R         Pr ctmmo Ncino/ .ifrcist,uoitires Ruro/es
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
PPM U          Pilot Program Management Un it
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SDA            Social dimensionis of Adjustnseit
SDR            Special Dravving Rights
SEDSP          Socio-Economic Development Support Projeet
TA             Technical Assistance
UCPP           fita* de Gest on dii Proczrctnmoe Piloie
UNDP           IJUnited Nations Development Program
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Emergency Fund



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1995-GUI)
CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation  Summary.....................................
1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ................................................... 1
PROJECT OBJECTIVES ................................................................1I
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .................................................................3
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ....................................4
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .................................................................6
IDA  PERFORMANCE .................................................................6
BORROWER PERFORMANCE .................................................................8
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .................................................................8
FUTURE OPERATION .................................................................9
KEY LESSONS LEARNED ................................................................                                     10
2. STATISTICAL TABLES ...................................................                                                           12
TABLE 2.1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .12
TABLE 2.2: RELATED IDA CREDITS .13
TABLE 2.3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .13
TABLE 2.4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTiMATED AND ACTUAL .14
TABLE 2.5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .14
TABLE 2.6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .14
TABLE 2.7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .14
TABLE 2.8A: PROJECT COSTS .....................................................                                          15
TABLE 2.8B: PROJECT FINANCING .....................................................                                      15
TABLE 2.9:   ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .....................................................                           16
TABLE 2.10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS IN CREDIT AGREEMENT ........................................... 17
TABLE 2.11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ......................................... 20
TABLE 2.12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .....................................................                           20
TABLE 2.13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ................                                               v         ...        . 21
APPENDICES ................................................                                                                         22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1995-GUI)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Socio-Economic
Development Support Project in Guinea, for which Credit 1995-GUI in the amount of
SDR 6.9 million was approved on March 28, 1989 and made effective on November 20,
1989.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1995, one year later than the original
closing date. Final disbursement took place on May 6, 1996, when the remaining balance
of SDR 0.44 million was canceled. Because of the increase in the dollar value of the
SDR, disbursements in US dollars totaled 9.43 million compared to the appraisal estimate
of 9.0 million. Apart from the government's counterpart contribution of US$0.9 million
equivalent (compared with the appraisal estimate of US$0.6 million), cofinancing for the
project was provided by the African Development Fund (AfDF) for US$1.3 million
equivalent (compared with the appraisal estimate of US$1.9 million), the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA) for US$1.1 million equivalent (compared
with the appraisal estimate of US$0.8 million) and NGOs for US$1.0 million equivalent
(compared with the appraisal estimate of US$1.2 million).
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Mark Woodward of the Population and Human
Resources Division, Western Africa Department of the Africa Region. It was reviewed
by Mr. Ok Pannenborg, Chief of the Population and Human Resources Division, and Mr.
Emmerich M. Schebeck, Operations Adviser of the Western Africa Department.
Preparation of this ICR began with the supervision mission of December 1994. It was
completed following a completion mission in May 1996. It is based on material in the
project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing views
reflected in the mission's aide-memoire (Appendix A), preparing its own evaluation of
the project's execution (Appendix B), and commenting on the draft ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT 1995-GUI
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction.
1.    Guinea launched a far-reaching stabilization and adjustment program in late 1985.
The first phase of the adjustment program (1985-88) was supported by an IDA credit and
extensive financial assistance from other donors, as well as by an IDA-financed Technical
Assistance Project for Economic Management. A second phase of the adjustment
program was begun in 1988 supported by a second IDA Structural Adjustment Credit and
additional financing from other donors. It was also supported by a Second Economic
Management Support Credit with cofinancing from several donors. Recognizing that
growth of per capita income was a necessary, but not a sufficient, condition to alleviate
poverty, Government decided to implement, within the framework of its structural
adjustment policy, a comprehensive social policy reform, aimed at fostering the
participation of the poor in the benefits of economic growth and at mitigating the
transitional impact of adjustment on vulnerable groups (paragraphs 1.2 and 1.4).
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the project were to (i) strengthen the capacity of the
Govemment in the areas of social policy design, coordination and implementation; (ii)
strengthen the capacity of the Government to identify target poverty groups and to
monitor the evolution of living conditions of households throughout the adjustment
process and afterwards; and (iii) implement a priority social action program, based on
specific sub-projects aimed at upgrading the living conditions of the poor and
disadvantaged groups. The objectives were to be achieved through the implementation of
three components: (i) a social policy planning component including a program of studies
to be conducted within the Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation (MPC) to strengthen
the Government's capacity to design, coordinate and implement a comprehensive social
policy consistent with the Structural Adjustment Program; (ii) a living standards
monitoring component (including a permanent household survey) to identify target
groups and to monitor changes in the living conditions of the population; and (iii) a pilot
program-component which would finance, essentially through NGOs and other
implementing agencies, priority socio-economic development sub-projects directed at the
most vulnerable groups in order to mitigate the social costs of adjustment while growth
gradually resumes (paragraph 1. 1).
3.    The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) included special covenants to
promote the achievement of project objectives. These related to: the establishment of a
Pilot Program Management Unit (PPMU) and Screening Committee as well as the



operations of that Pilot Program; the carrying out of the permanent household survey and
studies and the use of their results in the formulation of social policies and socio-
economic development programs; the establishment and maintenance of a National
Commission on Social Policy for coordinating the development and implementation of
social policies; the establishment and maintenance of a Technical Committee of Users of
the Permanent Household Survey to ensure their active participation in the execution of
the survey and the dissemination and use of its results; and the employment of a Socio-
Economic Adviser reporting directly to the Minister in charge of Planning to be the
Project Coordinator and the Secretary of the National Commission on Social Policy, and
to chair the Pilot Program Screening Committee (Table 2. 10).
4.    The project was not designed on the basis of a participatory approach to identify
problems and define clearly the project objectives and the means of achieving those
objectives. Also, the design of the project did not include any performance indicators to
monitor the achievement of objectives. Nevertheless, the objectives of the project were
clear to the extent that the project was about building government's capacity to make
better social policy and to put in place mechanisms to help the poor help themselves.
Regarding the Social Policy Planning and the Living Standards Monitoring components,
the aim was definitely a better poverty-reducing policy through data collection, analysis
and mechanisms for letting that analysis have an impact on public policy. However, it
was unrealistic to expect that such analysis would necessarily be used in the formulation
of social policies. On the other hand, the objectives of the Pilot Program component were
realistic. The objectives were fully consistent with the government's social policy and
were important for Guinea. They were also important for IDA's country assistance
strategy which was to support the Government's adjustment program (paragraph 1.2).
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    For the project as a whole, the achievements of objectives were generally
"partial". The success of the project can be assessed as satisfactory for the Living
Standards Monitoring and the Pilot Program components, much less so for the Social
Policy Planning component (paragraphs 1.5 to 1.9, and Table 2.1). The project is not
sustainable in the foreseeable future without additional donor support. Generally, the
Government remains committed to strengthening its capacity to monitor poverty,
developing poverty strategies, and helping the poor help themselves. The proposed
Poverty Alleviation and Monitoring Project would continue and expand activities
included in the present project. Unfortunately, the Government did not follow the action
plan agreed upon with IDA in late 1994, and the approval and the timing of a new IDA
credit for that proposed project are uncertain. Therefore, the sustainability of the Socio-
Economic Development Support Project can only be rated as "uncertain" (paragraph
1.16).
6.    The implementation record is satisfactory (paragraphs 1.10 to 1. 12). The actual
project cost was US$13.7 million, about the same as the appraisal estimate. The IDA
credit was almost fully disbursed, the contributions of the Government of Guinea and



iii
CIDA were slightly higher than the appraisal estimates, and those of AfDF and NGOs
slightly lower (Tables 2.8 A and 2.8 B).
7.    A number of factors affected the achievement of project objectives. Among those
factors not generally subject to government control, the performance of IDA and
cofinanciers partially affected the achievement of project objectives. On the positive
side, IDA developed a very good relationship with MPC and was very responsive to their
needs. On the negative side, IDA was not able to maintain the level of field supervision
that was planned and that was actually needed. The fact that the project was cofinanced
by AfDB and CIDA did not facilitate the task of the Borrower. Among the factors
generally subject to government control, the delays in the availability of counterpart
funds and staffing problems (for example, the project suffered from the absence of a full
time manager of the Pilot Program Management Unit) were significant. A number of
factors generally subject to implementing agency (MPC) control affected the achievement
of the project objectives. On the positive side, the project benefited from staff continuity
across the board, and from its reliance on technical assistance, which was partially
successful. Negative factors that affected the project included a minimal beneficiary
participation in program design, the uneven quality of staff, and management problems
(paragraphs 1.13 to 1.15).
8.    IDA performance on this project was highly satisfactory at the identification
stage, deficient in preparation assistance and appraisal, and satisfactory in supervision
(paragraphs 1.17 to 1.20). The Borrower's performance can be rated as deficient for
preparation, satisfactory for implementation, and deficient for covenant compliance.
With regard to operation, the borrower performance cannot be rated, because the concept
of operation does not apply to a project of this type (paragraphs 1.21 to 1.24).
9.    The project has been successful in putting into place essential tools, such as
databases, surveys and studies, which have been made readily available to policy makers.
There has been considerable transfer of skills for the household surveys, but
unfortunately not for the studies. Despite the wide dissemination of all those data and
results of surveys and studies, their policy impact has, so far, been relatively limited, as
has capacity building outside MPC. Funding provided to communities through the Pilot
program has helped to finance a number of sustainable community-based initiatives,
build local capacity to better prepare and implement community-level development
activities, as well as greatly improve collaboration between Government, NGOs, and
local communities. The Pilot Program Management Unit (PPMU) financed about 150
sub-projects for a total of about GF 6.2 billion, providing funding for much needed
services to underserved areas. About 85% of those sub-projects were for infrastructure
(essentially primary schools, health centers and health posts, and rural roads and bridges),
about 10% for training and about 5% for income generating activities. The sub-projects
directly benefited about 200,000 people, and provided employment and revenues of about
GF 550 million to about 2,500 skilled workers. In the areas where those sub-projects
were implemented, the living conditions of the population were improved through better



iv
education, better health, better access to markets and some opportunities for additional
income. The project's outcome deserves a rating of "satisfactory" (paragraphs 1.1 1 and
1.25).
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
10.   The project was implemented satisfactorily and has been generally successful. In
late 1994, IDA and the Government agreed that a follow-up operation would be
appropriate and should strengthen the mechanisms for data analysis and policy impact as
well as better focus and target micro-project funding to enhance communities' capacity to
prepare and implement sub-projects. The design of any new operation would incorporate
all the lessons learned from the experience of this Socio-Economic Development Support
Project; in particular, more emphasis would be placed on the policy impact aspect of the
proposed operation's activities. Unfortunately, the Government has not been very
diligent in carrying out project preparation, so that the timing of the new operation is very
uncertain (paragraphs 1.26 and 1.27).
11.   The following lessons, which are relevant for future projects both in the social
sectors and in Guinea, can be learned from the Socio-Economic Development Support
Project (paragraph 1.28):
3  While collecting, analyzing, and disseminating data is relatively easy, making an
impact on policy is far more difficult. The idea of using an interministerial
committee and commission to ensure ownership and commitment as well as
operational follow-up does not always work. There is a need, both at the
preparation stage and during project implementation, for a more integrated,
participatory approach involving consultation and dialogue between various
government departments as well as with NGOs and other members of civil
society. Adequate linkages, exchanges and contacts are very important to ensure
that studies and surveys lead to policy formulation.
*  Simply subcontracting studies to foreign consultants does not build any capacity
in government departments. Although the work might take longer, an alternative
approach more conducive to capacity building would be to have studies
undertaken by working groups composed of a mixture of civil servants, local
contractual staff and consultants, backed up as necessary by foreign consultants.
* Social funds are more likely to achieve their objectives the greater their
independence from Government. Social funds cannot be successfully run by civil
servants with a civil servant mentality, but should be operated like a private sector
organization by managers with business experience. Social funds should not
attempt to do everything by themselves, but should sub-contract many activities.



v
* Community involvement and support in the design, implementation and
management of sub-projects to be financed by social funds are very important to
ensure the success of social funds.
* In order for a social fund to start operations and finance sub-projects quickly, a
number of conditions must be met: (i) the various instruments needed for
operations, such as models of feasibility studies/evaluation reports, standard
agreements with NGOs and other implementing agencies, standard loan
agreements with promoters/beneficiaries, etc., must be available; (ii) adequate
attention must be given to communication in order to ensure that potential
promoters/beneficiaries are aware of the availability of funds and of the criteria
and procedures to have access to those funds; and (iii) mechanisms must be in
place to ensure that sub-projects submitted to the social fund for financing are
properly prepared.
* Mixing credits and grants makes the management and operations of social funds
particularly difficult and risky. Credits for income generating activities require
knowledge and expertise very different from that required for grants for social
projects. Social funds may play an important role in helping promoters/
beneficiaries of income generating activities have access to existing sources of
credit.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT 1995-GUI
1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.1   There are differences in the presentation of the project objectives between the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Memorandum and Recommendations of the President
and the Development Credit Agreement. The presentation in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR), which mixes together project objectives, approach and description, is unclear;
fortunately this is much less so for the 'other two documents which are more consistent
and include a definition closer to the summary of project development objectives listed in
the supervision form 590. According to the Memorandum and Recommendations of the
President, the objectives of the project were to (i) strengthen the capacity of the
Government in the areas of social policy design, coordination and implementation; (ii)
strengthen the capacity of the Government to identify target poverty groups and to
monitor the evolution of living conditions of households throughout the adjustment
process and afterwards; and (iii) implement a priority social action program, based on
specific sub-projects aimed at upgrading the living conditions of the poor and
disadvantaged groups. The objectives were to be achieved through the implementation of
three components: (i) a social policy planning component including a program of studies
to be conducted within the Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation (MPC) to strengthen
the Government's capacity to design, coordinate and implement a comprehensive social
policy consistent with the Structural Adjustment Program; (ii) a living standards
monitoring component (including a permanent household survey) to identify target
groups and to monitor changes in the living conditions of the population; and (iii) a pilot
program component which would finance, essentially through NGOs and other
implementing agencies, priority socio-economic development sub-projects directed at the
most vulnerable groups in order to mitigate the social costs of adjustment while growth
gradually resumes. The objectives were not changed during project implementation.
1.2   The project was not designed on the basis of a participatory approach to identify
problems and define clearly the project objectives and the means of achieving those
objectives. Also, the design of the project did not include any performance indicators to
monitor the achievement of objectives. Nevertheless, the objectives of the project were
clear to the extent that the project was about building government's capacity to make
better social policy and to put in place mechanisms to help the poor help themselves. The
aim was definitely a better poverty-reducing policy through data collection, analysis and
mechanisms for letting that analysis have an impact on public policy. The project did a



2
good job of putting together tools, but not in ensuring that those tools would lead to
government policy; in that sense, the objectives of the social policy planning and the
living standards monitoring components, although correct, were somewhat unrealistic.
On the other hand, the objectives of the pilot program were realistic. The objectives were
fully consistent with the government's social policy as expressed in the portion of its 1988
Declaration of Development Policy dealing with the social dimensions of adjustment.
According to the SAR, the Government was fully committed to growth and poverty
alleviation and was aware that the simultaneous pursuit of these two objectives implied
(i) the introduction of transitory measures to protect vulnerable groups while growth
gradually resumes, and (ii) the development of a comprehensive social policy reform
concerned with increasing the participation of the poor in the growth process. The
objectives were therefore very important for Guinea. They were also important for IDA's
country assistance strategy which aimed to support the Government's adjustment
program, particularly the second phase that started in 1988. IDA's important role in the
recovery program put it in a leading position vis-a-vis the donor community in supporting
the Government's action to alleviate poverty in a manner consistent with the structural
adjustment policies. In addition, it was thought that IDA's involvement through this
project would provide the financial and human resources necessary for an efficient
coordination of governmental and non-governmental social actions which might
otherwise be under-funded and fragmented. The project came at a crucial time in the
adjustment process.
1.3   The project was complex, not in terms of the number of components which was
limited to three, but in terms of the difficulty of implementing it, mainly because
communication and coordination between the three divisions involved in the same
ministry (MPC) were inadequate. All components were demanding for somewhat
different reasons. Both the living standards monitoring and the pilot program
components were something new for Guinea, but in addition the pilot program (which
was also something new for IDA) was not adequately designed. Regarding the social
policy planning component, MPC did not have the human resources to carry out the
studies which had to be done by technical assistance, and did not have the capacity to
translate the results of those studies into policies. The project was risky, particularly
because of (a) the inexperience of Government's staff that would have to manage and
implement it and (b) the implementation and coordination difficulties that could occur
between the various MPC divisions involved.
1.4  In April 1988, the National Poverty Task Force had produced a report containing
a poverty profile of Guinea, the tentative identification of vulnerable groups and
proposals for a series of projects. As a next step, the Government intended to establish a
National Commission on Social policy (Commission Nationale de Politique Sociale -
CNPS) at the ministerial level to oversee social policy reform. It intended also to
reinforce MPC to enable it to develop effective socio-economic policies and programs to
improve the access to employment and basic services of the poor segments of the
population. By supporting those actions, the project was responsive to changes in



3
Guinea's circumstances and priorities. The project was also a reflection of changes in
IDA's priorities.
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.5   The assessment of the project's success in achieving its major objectives should
take into account the significant differences between the various components, in terms of
both content and relative importance. One has to distinguish between review of the
project as a whole (reflected in Table 2.1 of Part II), and more qualified comments that
can be made on individual components. An additional difficulty in assessing the project's
success is the complete lack of quantified criteria in the SAR for judging the achievement
of objectives. Whereas Table 2.1 shows that, for the project as a whole, the achievements
of objectives were generally "partial", the discussion below tries to present a more
balanced picture of the achievements of the project's three components.
1.6   The achievement of physical objectives is difficult to assess because of lack of
reliable data and performance indicators. Nevertheless, the monitoring living standards
component achieved its main objective in the sense that two household surveys were
carried out, and MPC staff is now capable of carrying out similar surveys. Likewise, the
pilot program was implemented; eighty to eighty-five percent of the sub-projects have
been successful and have good prospects for sustainability.
1.7   Regarding sector policies and institutional development, the achievement of
objectives has been negligible to partial. The Borrower developed a capacity to carry out
surveys and to finance micro-projects, but not to carry out social policy studies nor to
design and implement social policies. The effect of the project on public sector
management has been negligible. On the other hand, the pilot program made a
contribution, albeit modest, to private sector development. The achievement of the
poverty reduction objectives has been substantial in those communities where the pilot
program intervened. Although the Program of Targeted Interventions (PTI) did not exist
at the time the IDA credit was approved, the pilot program was targeted, with minimum
leakage, and the proportion of the poor among the beneficiaries is greater than the
proportion of the poor among the total population.
1.8   The design of the project (which was largely prepared by IDA staff) was generally
appropriate for achieving the objectives of identifying target poverty groups and
monitoring the evolution of living conditions of households, but much less so for the
objectives of institutional strengthening/capacity building and of implementing a priority
social action program. The national commission on social policy (CNPS) was not an
appropriate mechanism or tool to ensure social policy reform. As to the pilot program, its
design was rather naive, in part because, at the time, there was a lack of experience with
social funds. Generally, the pilot program was not independent enough: it was to be run
by civil servants with a civil servant mentality. Also, the various instruments needed for
operations, such as models of feasibility studies/evaluation reports, standard agreements
with NGOs and other implementing agencies, standard loan agreements with
promoters/beneficiaries, etc. had not been prepared. Finally, more attention should have



4
been given to communication, in order to ensure that potential beneficiaries be aware of
the availability of funds and of the criteria and procedures to have access to those funds.
1.9   The quantitative criteria for judging the achievement of objectives were totally
inexistant in the SAR.
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
1.10 The Borrower's report in Appendix B discusses the implementation record for the
project, its achievements and the problems encountered. It also includes some
suggestions for the future operation of the project, and on improvements which could be
incorporated into any follow-up operation.
1.11  In summary, the implementation record is satisfactory. Under the Living
Standards Monitoring component, a priority survey and an integrated survey have been
completed, and their data have been widely disseminated among potential users. The
results of the priority survey have been used by private sector and public sector
organizations, as well as international agencies. Under the Social Policy Planning
component, a series of seven thematic studies, a macro-economic study, a scheima
directeur, and a poverty map have been completed. The poverty map, which delineates
the pockets of poverty within the country, has been circulated among policy makers and
has made a significant impact on a number of decision makers. The schema directeur is
to be used to assist in the prioritizing of poverty reduction activities. The component also
influenced urban sewage and drainage activities in Conakry. Unfortunately, limited use
has been made of the available data and studies for social policy analysis and planning,
and in this respect capacity building within MPC has been relatively weak. The Pilot
Program component has been successful in its outreach efforts and has identified several
internediaries which it has subcontracted to carry out and manage sub-projects. The
Pilot Program Management Unit (PPMU) financed about 150 sub-projects for a total of
about GF 6.2 billion, providing funding for much needed services to underserved areas.
About 85% of those sub-projects were for infrastructure (essentially primary schools,
health centers and health posts, and rural roads and bridges), about 10% for training and
about 5% for income generating activities. The sub-projects directly benefited about
200,000 people, and provided employment and revenues of about GF 550 million to
about 2,500 skilled workers. In the areas where those sub-projects were implemented, the
living conditions of the population were improved through better education, better health,
better access to markets and some opportunities for additional income.
1.12  The project had a slow start because it was not fully prepared. During
implementation, there were no major procurement problems, but there were procurement
delays and some problems with the use of the Special Account (which had a very low
ceiling) and disbursements to NGOs. The project took one year longer to complete than
expected at appraisal, with one postponement of the closing date of the IDA credit from
December 31, 1994 to December 31, 1995. There are two main reasons for these
implementation delays. First, the implementation schedule of the Living Standards
Monitoring component was far too optimistic: it underestimated the technical difficulties



5
and the time required to set up the program and carry out the surveys (in the end, only
two household surveys were carried out instead of the four that were planned). Second,
the Pilot Program component had a very slow start, mostly because it was not properly
prepared; it also suffered from a lack of capacity, both on the part of NGOs and
promoters/beneficiaries to prepare sub-projects, and on the part of its management unit
(PPMU) to appraise them and process requests for financing.
1.13  A number of factors affected the achievement of project objectives. Among those
factors not generally subject to government control, the performance of IDA and
cofinanciers partially affected the achievement of project objectives. On the positive
side, IDA developed a very good relationship with MPC and project staff, and was very
responsive to their needs. On the negative side, either because of budgetary constraints or
because of the priority given to other tasks, IDA was not able to maintain the level of
field supervision that was planned and that was actually needed (as an example, there was
no supervision mission between August 1993 and December 1994). The fact that the
project was cofinanced by AfDB and CIDA did not facilitate the task of the Borrower,
who had to adjust to different procurement and disbursement procedures; CIDA
contribution was managed by AfDB, and there seems to have been some dissatisfaction
on the way funds were handled.
1.14 Among the factors generally subject to government control, the availability of
funds and staffing were significant. Every year counterpart funds have been a problem;
they were made available, but always with considerable delays, so that the project had to
rely more on the Special Account of the IDA credit. The project also suffered from the
absence of a full time manager of the Pilot Program Management Unit (PPMU).
Cumbersome administrative procedures contributed to delays, and the Government
commitment to the project was not obvious, outside of the MPC or those directly
involved; however, those two factors were not major problems.
1.15  A number of factors generally subject to implementing agency (MPC) control
affected the achievement of the project objectives. On the positive side, the project
benefited from staff continuity across the board, and from its reliance on technical
assistance, which in the end was successful for the Pilot Program component. The
technical assistance for the studies program was also productive, but there was very little
capacity building involved. Unfortunately, the technical assistance for the Living
Standards Monitoring component fell short of what was planned and expected, especially
in terms of intellectual leadership. Negative factors that affected the project included a
minimal beneficiary participation in program design (particularly at the beginning of the
project), the uneven quality of staff, and management problems. The effectiveness of
project management was hampered by a lack of coordination between all three
components, and at times tension between the components and the Senior Socio-
Economic Adviser (Project Coordinator).



6
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
1.16  To the extent that the objectives of the Policy Planning component have not been
completely achieved, the question of the sustainability of that particular component does
not arise. With the emphasis placed on the coverage of recurrent expenditures for
operation and maintenance, the sustainability of most of the micro-projects financed
under the Pilot program component is likely. The Pilot Program itself, however, is not
sustainable without further inflows of financial resources. Similarly, the Living
Standards Monitoring component is not sustainable in the foreseeable future without
additional donor support. In any event, the development and strengthening of
institutional capacity to monitor poverty and design and implement appropriate poverty
reduction policies is a long-term process. However, MPC staff are now capable of
carrying out surveys, if they are given the resources to do them. Generally, the
Government remains committed to strengthening its capacity to monitor poverty,
developing poverty strategies, and helping the poor help themselves. A proposed new
operation would continue and expand activities included in the present project, as
discussed in the section below on "Future Operation". Unfortunately, the Government
did not follow the action plan agreed upon with IDA in late 1994, and the approval and
the timing of a new IDA credit for that proposed operation are uncertain. Therefore, the
sustainability of the Socio-Economic Development support Project can only be rated as
"uncertain".
IDA PERFORMANCE
1.17  IDA performance on this project was highly satisfactory at the identification
stage, deficient in preparation assistance and appraisal, and satisfactory in supervision.
As mentioned earlier, the project was very important for Guinea and for IDA's country
assistance strategy, and project identification was on target. The project was innovative
and consistent with the Government's development strategy/priorities and with IDA's
strategy for Guinea. IDA involvement encouraged also other donors to support the
Government's actions to alleviate poverty in a manner consistent with the structural
adjustment policies.
1.18  Project preparation was done mostly by IDA (with little participation by
Government), and IDA performance can only be rated as deficient. Apart from the
inadequacies of design and the overly optimistic implementation forecast mentioned
earlier, the project was not fully prepared, so that many activities could not start
immediately upon approval of the IDA credit or its effectiveness. For example, the first
sub-project under the pilot program component was approved only in September 1990,
and by the end of 1991 only ten sub-projects had been approved. It is interesting to note
that at the time of appraisal the Senior Operations Adviser in the Office of the Regional
Vice-President had expressed concerns about the lack of preparation of the Pilot Program
component in particular, and about Government capacity to implement the project in
general; those concerns seemed to have been largely ignored by IDA staff. On the other
hand, adequate sector work was carried out before and during project preparation; in
accordance with the normal approach at the time when poverty assessments did not exist,



7
a SDA CAP (Country Assessment Paper), which included a poverty profile, was
undertaken.
1.19  To the extent that the project was essentially prepared by IDA, IDA appraised
itself, and the performance of IDA in project appraisal should also be rated as deficient.
It was the first operation of this type in Guinea, and it was also a new type of project for
IDA, so that there was no previous experience which could be taken into account. The
appraisal assessed properly the commitment of MPC, but not of the Government (which
may explain the shortcomings of the Policy Planning component). The implementation
capacity was overestimated, and the complexity of preparing and appraising micro-
projects was underestimated. The first risk was recognized in the SAR, but not the
second. Also, the implementation plan was not adequate, and there were no performance
indicators. The procurement arrangements for the Pilot Program (which accounted for
two-thirds of the IDA credit) were unusually lenient, with no requirement for Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB). On procurement for the Pilot Program, there are
discrepancies between the wording of the SAR and the stipulations of the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA).
1.20  In view of the shortcomings of preparation and appraisal, special efforts had to be
made during implementation to remedy those shortcomings, and IDA performance in
supervising the project can be rated as satisfactory. At the beginning of the project, IDA
helped MPC to complete project preparation. Sufficient attention was paid to the likely
development impact, and by and large implementation problems were identified and
assessed, including a search for solutions. However, the reporting of project
implementation progress was not always as comprehensive as would have been desirable,
particularly regarding compliance with covenants. The performance ratings given in
Supervision Form 590 may have been too generous, reflecting a certain optimism on how
fast improvements could be made. Through regular contacts, IDA staff provided useful
advice to MPC, including commenting on drafts of standard model documents and on
sub-projects under the Pilot Program component. The persistence with which IDA
pointed out the need for adequate arrangements to cover the recurrent costs for operation
and maintenance of sub-projects in order to ensure their sustainability is remarkable.
IDA showed flexibility in suggesting or approving needed modifications, especially in
waiving the requirement that NGOs or public agencies sponsoring sub-projects submit
their financial stdtements for the last fiscal year (although Schedule 4 of the Development
Credit Agreement was not formally amended), in suggesting that NGOs could be sub-
contracted as intermediaries to implement and manage sub-projects (Conventions de
Sous-Traitance), in reallocating funds after the idea of a new building for MPC was
abandoned and in increasing the ceiling of the Special Account. Generally, IDA, the
Government, MPC and cofinanciers worked together successfully. The continuity of
IDA staff (same task manager and same statistician) for the supervision of this project
must have contributed to the success of the supervision effort. Supervision missions
could have been more frequent, since there was a period of eighteen months without field
visits. On the other hand, IDA's field office in Conakry made an important contribution
by participating in missions and following-up on outstanding issues. It was originally



8
intended that IDA's no objection to sub-projects costing GF15 million or less would be
given by the resident mission, but unfortunately the resident mission initially did not
agree to do so. There was no requirement for a mid-term review, and country
implementation reviews were not particularly helpful.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
1.21  The Borrower's performance can be rated as deficient for preparation, satisfactory
for implementation, and deficient for covenant compliance. With regard to operation, the
borrower performance cannot be rated, because the concept of operation does not apply to
a project of this type.
1.22  The Borrower's performance was deficient for preparation, because the Borrower
was essentially not involved and apparently did not make much effort to gain
"ownership" by participating at least in the overall design of the project. Government's
participation might have improved the project design and helped avoid some of the
institutional problems that arose during the course of project implementation.
1.23  The Borrower's performance in project implementation has been satisfactory.
Despite some shortcomings, the project has been implemented and the IDA credit
basically disbursed. On balance, the quality of management and staff has been
acceptable, but some of the staff could not work full time on the project because of other
assignments. The performance of contractors and consultants has been mixed; the
adequacy and effectiveness of technical assistance has varied over time and from
component to component. The level of counterpart funds has been adequate, but they
have not been made available in a timely manner. There has been little government
interference in operational decisions (even for the Pilot Program), but rather delays
because officials did not always act expeditiously when they had to, such as for signing
documents. There was no mechanism set up for project monitoring and evaluation.
1.24 A number of covenants of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were only
partially complied with (a commission or committee was "established", but not really
"maintained" thereafter) or complied with after delays (as for the availability of
counterpart funds and for audits, for which there were considerable delays - about nine
months in the case of the audit of the 1991 accounts). The most serious breach of
covenant is the failure of the Borrower to make use of the results of the permanent
household survey and other studies in the formulation of social policies and socio-
economic development programs (Section 3.05 of the DCA). The Borrower performance
on compliance with covenants can only be rated as deficient.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
1.25  The project achieved most of its major objectives and has achieved or is expected
to achieve satisfactory development results with only a few shortcomings. Therefore, the
project's outcome deserves a rating of "satisfactory". Generally, the project has been
successful in putting into place essential tools, such as databases, surveys and studies,



9
which have been made readily available to policy makers. There has been considerable
transfer of skills for the household surveys, but unfortunately not for the studies. Despite
the wide dissemination of all those data and results of surveys and studies (which allowed
for the beginning of a fairly widespread dialogue on issues of social policy and poverty
reduction), their policy impact has, so far, been relatively limited, as has capacity
building outside MPC. Funding provided to communities through the Pilot Program has
helped to finance a number of sustainable community-based initiatives, build local
capacity to better prepare and implement community-level development activities, as well
as greatly improve collaboration between Government, NGOs, and local communities.
However, communities' needs for services, particularly in remote areas in the Upper and
Middle Guinea regions, remain vast.
FUTURE OPERATION
1.26  The concept of future project operation is not really applicable to a project of this
type, particularly to the Social Policy Planning and the Living Standards Monitoring
components. However, most of the assets financed under the Pilot Program will continue
to be used and "operated"; as for poverty monitoring, its continuation is very much
dependent on the availability of foreign financial assistance. In November 1994 IDA
discussed with Government the need to continue and expand on the achievements of the
present project and agreed with Government on an action plan for the preparation of a
new operation. In line with the Government request, the objectives of that new operation
would most likely be similar to those of the first project. They would be to: (a)
strengthen Government capacity to monitor the poverty situation in the country,
undertake social policy analysis, and plan and develop appropriate social programs and
interventions; and (b) improve the living conditions of the poor in rural and urban areas
by supporting targeted community-level initiatives.
1.27 The design of a new operation should incorporate the lessons learned from the
experience of this Socio-Economic Development Support Project (see section below). In
particular, to address the issue of lack of policy impact of the present project, mechanisms
would need to be established to ensure better coordination among ministries in defining
and implementing social policies. Therefore, the proposed operation should adopt an
approach emphasizing a more integrated, participatory process of consultation and
dialogue. This process should involve complementing the surveys undertaken under the
present project with qualitative surveys, such as beneficiaries assessments, and
workshops involving Government, NGOs and other members of civil society (such as
research institutions). Any new social fund component should be designed to be demand-
driven, participatory and autonomous. Unfortunately, the Government has not followed
the action plan agreed upon in late 1994 and the preparation of a new operation has been
seriously delayed. Therefore, activities may be completely interrupted because of a lack
of financing between the last disbursement on credit 1995-GUI and the effectiveness of
the new credit for any possible follow-up project.



10
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
1.28 The following lessons, which are relevant for future projects both in the social
sectors and in Guinea, can be learned from the Socio-Economic Development Support
Project:
 While collecting, analyzing, and disseminating data is relatively easy, making an
impact on policy is far more difficult. The idea of using an interministerial
committee and commission to ensure ownership and commitment as well as
operational follow-up does not always work. There is a need, both at the
preparation stage and during project implementation, for a more integrated,
participatory approach involving consultation and dialogue between various
government departments as well as with NGOs and other members of civil
society. Adequate linkages, exchanges and contacts are very important to ensure
that studies and surveys lead to policy formulation.
* Simply subcontracting studies to foreign consultants, because of a lack of local
capacity and in the interest of having the studies done within a reasonable time,
does not build any capacity in government departments. Although the work might
take longer, an alternative approach more conducive to capacity building would
be to have studies undertaken by working groups composed of a mixture of civil
servants, local contractual staff and consultants, backed up as necessary by foreign
consultants.
* Social funds are more likely to achieve their objectives the greater their
independence from Government. Social funds cannot be successfully run by civil
servants with a civil servant mentality, but should be operated like a private sector
organization by managers with business experience. Social funds should not
attempt to do everything by themselves, but should sub-contract many activities.
* Community involvement and support in the design, implementation and
management of sub-projects to be financed by social funds are very important to
ensure the success of social funds.
* In order for a social fund to start operations and finance sub-projects quickly, a
number of conditions must be met: (i) the various instruments needed for
operations, such as models of feasibility studies/evaluation reports, standard
agreements with NGOs and other implementing agencies, standard loan
agreements with promoters/beneficiaries, etc., must be available; (ii) adequate
attention must be given to communication in order to ensure that potential
promoters/beneficiaries are aware of the availability of funds and of the criteria
and procedures to have access to those funds; and (iii) mechanisms must be in
place to ensure that sub-projects submitted to the social fund for financing are
properly prepared.
* Mixing credits and grants makes the management and operations of social funds
particularly difficult and risky. Credits for income generating activities require
knowledge and expertise very different from that required for grants for social



I1
projects. Social funds may play an important role in helping promoters/
beneficiaries of income generating activities have access to existing sources of
credit.



12
2. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 2.1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievements of Obiectives
Obiectives                       Substantial      Partial           Negligible      Not Applicable
Macro policies                                      0                0                 0
Sectorpolicies                    O                 0                0                 0
Financial objectives      0                O                 O                0
Institutionaldevelopment           0                0                0                 0
Physicalobjectives                O                 0                0                 O
Poverty reduction                  0                0                0                 0
Gender issues                      0                O                0                 0
Other social objectives            0                0                0                 c
Environmentalobjectives            0                0                0                 0
Public sector management                            a 0               0                
Private sector development         a                0                0                 0
Other (specify)                   O                 0                O                0
B. Proiectsustainability                   Likelv                    Unlikely          Uncertain
0                         0                0
C. IDA performance                         Highly
satisfactory              Satisfactory     Deficient
Identification                             0                         0                 0
PreparationAssistance                      0                         O                 0
Appraisal                                  0                         0                 0
Supervision                                0                         0                 0
D. Borrowerperformance                     Highly
satisfactory              Satisfactorv     Deficient
Preparation                                0                         0                 0
Implementation                             0                         0                 0
CovenantCompliance                         0                          0                0
OperationNOT APPLICABLE            a                         O                0
E. Assessment of outcome          Highly                                               HilhlX
satisfactory     Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
0                0                0                 a



13
Table 2.2: Related IDA Credits
Credit Title   Purpose                         Year of    Status
Approval
Preceding
Operations
No preceding
operation
Following
Operations
Equity and    To deepen and expand national     1995       Project is being
School       education sector reform initiatives          implemented
Improvement  under Education Sector Adjustment I,          satisfactorily.
Project      emphasizing school level intervention
Cr 2719-GUI  to improve quality and girls'
Iparticipation.
Table 2.3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle         Date planned      Date actual
Identification                                   Sep 1987
Preparation                                      Oct 1987/Jun 1988
Appraisal                                        Jul 1988
Post-Appraisal                                   Nov 1988
Negotiations                                     Feb 1989
Board Presentation                               Mar 28, 1989
Signing                                          Apr 19, 1989
Effectiveness                  Jun 30,1989       Nov 20, 1989
Midterm Review                 N/A.              N/A.
Project Completion              Dec 31, 1993     Dec 31, 1995
Loan/Credit Closing             Dec 31, 1994     Dec 31, 1995



14
Table 2.4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Calendar Year  1989    1990    1991    1992   1993    1994   1995    1996
Appraisal
Estimate       0.60    2.00    3.20    4.70    6.20    7.70   9.00    9.00
Actual         -       0.47    0.83    1.66    2.82    5.48   9.13    9.43
Actual as % of
Estimate               23.5    25.9    35.3   45.5    71.2   101.4   104.8
Date of final disbursement: May 6, 1996
Table 2.5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Neither the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), nor the Memorandum and
Recommendation of the President, nor the Development Credit Agreement included any
key indicators for project implementation.
Table 2.6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Neither the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), nor the Memorandum and
Recommendation of the President, nor the Development Credit Agreement included any
key indicators for project operation.
Table 2.7: Studies Included in Project
Study          Purpose as defined at       Status      Impact of Study
appraisal
For information on studies carried out under the project, see the completion report by the
Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation (MPC) in Appendix B.



15
Table 2.8 A: Project Costs
(US $ million)
Project Components                      Appraisal        Actual/Latest
Estimate         Estimate
Social Policy Planning                   1.08              1.03
Permanent Household Survey               3.35             2.89
Pilot Program
- Sub-Projects                    7.20              7.52
- Management                      0.89              1.36
Project Coordination                     0.66             0.88
Equipment for MPC Annex                  0.30            _
Total Project Costs (net of taxes)      13.48            13.68
Table 2.8 B : Project Financing
(US $ million)
Source                                  Appraisal      Actual/Latest
Estimate       Estimate
IDA Credit                               9.00           9.43
Government of Guinea                     0.58           0.89
AfDF                                     1.86           1.27
CIDA                                     0.84           1.09
NGOs                                     1.20           1.00
Total                                   13.48          13.68



16
Table 2.9: Economic Costs and Benefits
List of benefits identified in the SAR  Actual
(A) In the short term, the Project will
provide:
(i) technical support to strengthen the  Technical support has been provided, and
Government's capabilities in social policy  Government's capabilities have been
planning;                            strengthened.
(ii) a statistical base on the level and  Achieved.
evolution of household living conditions;
(iii) experience in designing and    Achieved.
implementing, mainly through pilot sub-
projects carried out by NGOs, actions that
will improve the access of poor and
disadvantaged groups to increased
employment opportunities and basic social
services.
(B) In the medium term, the Project
will lay the basis for:
(i) refined targeting of vulnerable groups;  Achieved: pockets of poverty have been
identified through the establishment of a
poverty map.
(ii) the development of a comprehensive   Some progress has been made in that
social policy consistent with efficient  direction, but it is insufficient.
growth-oriented economic policies.
NOTE: As was standard practice for social sector projects at the time, no cost benefit
analysis was carried out.



17
Table 2.10: Status of Legal Covenants in Credit Agreement
Section   Covenant    Present    Fulfillment date                      Description of Covenant
Type        Status
Original          Revised                                                         Comments
2.02(b)   1, 3, 5     C           continuous                           Borrower to open and maintain a Special Account,
in dollars, in a bank, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 of the Development Credit Agreement.
3.01      3, 4, 5     CD          continuous, except                   (a) Borrower's commitment to project objectives;    Project components have not always been
for the initial                     Borrower to carry out project through MPC with    implemented with due diligence and efficiency,
deposit into the                    due diligence and efficiency and in conformity  contributing to the one year postponement of the
revolving account                   with appropriate administrative and financial  closing date. More importantly, there were
in Guinean francs                   practices, and to provide, promptly as needed, the   delays in the replenishment of the counterpart
which was a                         funds, facilities, services and other resources  funds account.
condition of                        required for project.
effectiveness.                      (b) Borrower to establish in a bank, in Guinean
Francs, a revolving account for the exclusive
purpose of the project, and after an initial deposit
equivalent to US$50,000, replenish the account as
and when required so that the amount available
never be less than 1/3 of initial amount.
3.02      10          C           continuous                           Procedures for procurement of goods, works and
consultants' services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
3.03 and  5           C           Effectiveness                        Borrower to establish and maintain PPMU in
schedule                          condition for                        accordance with the provisions of Part D of
4 of                              PPMU's                               Schedule 4 of the DCA, and not later than
DCA                               establishment and                    December 31, 1989, to establish and thereafter
appointment of its                  maintain the Pilot Program Screening Committee
manager;                            in accordance with the provisions of Part E of
Dec 31, 1989 for                    Schedule 4 of the DCA.
the establishment
of the Pilot
Program Screening
Committee.



18
Section    Covenant    Present      Fulfillment date                       Description of Covenant
Type         Status
____________              Original            Revised                                                            Comments
3.04 (a)   3, 5,10      CP          continuous                             Borrower to make the proceeds of the credit     Section (C) of Schedule 4 to the DCA (on the
allocated to category (I) of the table set forth in  terms and conditions to be included in the
paragraph I of Schedule I to the DCA available to  subsidiary financing agreements between the
NGOs or Public Agencies under subsidiary        Borrower and sponsoring NGOs or public
financing agreements, satisfactory to the       agencies) has not been fully complied with.
Association, for financing of sub-projects in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
the DCA.
3.05      5, 9          CP          Undetermined                           Borrower to (a) carry out the permanent household   Borrower carried out two household survey and
survey and the other studies, undertaken for the  a number of studies, but did not make use of
purpose of formulating social policies, and     their results in the formulation of social policies
promptly submit to the Association the results of    and socio-economic development prograrmis.
said survey and studies, and (b) promptly
thereafter, use such results in the formulation of
the Borrower's social policies and socio-economic
development programs.
3.06      5.12          CP          Not later than                         Borrower to establish not later than Dec 31, 1989,   The Commission was established but never met;
December 31, 89,                      and thereafter maintain, the National Commission    however, there had been regular meetings of a
and thereafter                        on Social Policy, which shall be responsible for  substitute committee for the same purpose.
continuous                            coordinating the development and implementation
of the Borrower's social policies.
3.07      5             CP          Not later than                         For the purposes of the Living Standards        The Technical Committee of Users of the
September 1, 89,                      Monitoring component, Borrower to establish not   Permanent Household Survey was established;
and thereafter                        later than September 1, 1989, and thereafter     however, it did not function well, supposedly for
continuous                            maintain a Technical Committee of Users of the   lack of enactment of a law empowering DNSI to
Permanent Household Survey; said committee to    coordinate statistics! Contacts and consultation
report to the chief of the Surveys and Price Indices   between the various organizations collecting
Division of DNSI and to include representatives of  data and users have been informal, particularly
the departments concerned by survey to ensure   through seminars (a first one at the preparation
their active participation in the execution of the  stage, a second to present the mid-term results,
survey and the dissemination and use of its results.  and a third to present the final results).
3.08      5             C           Condition of                           Borrower to employ a socio-economic adviser
effectiveness                         reporting directly to the Minister in charge of
Planning; said adviser shall be: (i) the Secretary of
the National Commission on Social policy, (ii) the
Chairman of the Pilot Program Screening
Committee, and (iii) the Project Coordinator.



19
Section    Covenant    Present    Fulfillment date                         Description of Covenant
Type         Status
Original            Revised                                                           Comments
4.01      1             CD          By June 30                             Borrower to maintain adequate project records and   Audit reports have been submitted with
of each year, for                     accounts, to have the accounts audited by       considerable delays.
the preceding year.                   independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and to
furnish to IDA, not later than six months after the
end of each fiscal year, the report of such audit by
said auditors.
6.01       5            C           Conditions of                          (a) PPMU has been established and its manager
effectiveness                         has been appointed; (b) the socio-economic
adviser, the adviser to the chief of DNSI's Surveys
and Price Indices Division and the adviser to the
manager of PPMU, all with qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of
employment satisfactory to the Association, have
taken up their positions; (c) effectiveness
conditions of the AfDF/TAF and CIDA Grant
Agreements have been fulfilled; and (d)
counterpart funds account has been opened with an
initial deposit in Guinean Francs of US$50,000
equivalent.
schedule   5            CP          Continuous                             Operations of the Pilot Program: (A) Eligibility  Section (C) has not been fully complied with.
4                                                                          criteria for NGOs or public agencies sponsoring
sub-projects; (B) Criteria for the selection of sub-
projects; (C)Terms and conditions to be included
in the subsidiary financing agreements between the
Borrower and sponsoring NGOs or public
agencies; (D) Responsibilities of PPMU; and (E)
Screening committee.
Covenant types:
I = Accounts/audits.                       8=  Indigenous people.                    Present status:
2 = Financial performance/revenue          9 = Monitoring, review and reporting.
generation from beneficiaries.             10 = Project implementation not covered by    C  = Covenant complied with.
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds.  categories 1-9.                           CD = Complied with after delay.
4 = Counterpart funding.                   11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or    CP = Complied with partially.
5 = Management aspects of the project or   other resource allocation..                NC = Not complied with.
executing agency.                          12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
6 = Environmental covenants.               policy/regulatory/ institutional action.
7 = Involuntary resettlement.              13 = Other.



20
Table 2.11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements (OMS)
I                     All applicable Bank OMS were complied with.
Table 2.12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle       Planned              Revised                Actual
_____________________ 0Weeks   US$(OOO)   Weeks   US$(000)   Weeks   US$(000)
Preparation through                                                     1.3        2.7
Appraisal
Negotiations through                                                    1.2        2.4
Board Approval
Supervision                                                           80.6       121.5
Completion                                                            37          36.9
TOTAL                  T          I          I                        120.1      163.5
Note: Based on average cost of US$ 3,000 per staff week.



21
Table 2.13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of          onth/       umber of   Days in    Specialized staff   Performance Rating          Types of
Project Cycle     ear        ersons      Field      ills represented                                Problems
Implemen-       Develop-
tation Status   ment
Objectives
Through appraisal
Identification     Sep-87      1          4         ST
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Appraisal          Jul 88      4           11       EC, PA, NGO
Post-Appraisal     Nov 88      4           12       LO, 00, PA
Supervision
Supervision I      Jan 90      3          N/A.      PEC, LO, ST        2               2
Supervision 2      Jun 90      2           12       PEC, 00            2               2            TP
Supervision 3      Feb 91      2           14       PEC, 00            2               2            AF
Supervision 4      Apr 91      1           4        ST
Supervision 5      Nov 91      4           N/A.     PEC, ST, 00, DP   2                2            AF, TP
Supervision 6      Apr 92      3           12       PEC. 00, CD        2               2            AF, TP
Supervision 7      Dec 92      3           16       PEC, ST, 00        2               2            AF
Supervision 8      Aug 93      1           7        PM                 2               2
Supervision 9      Dec 94      3           16       PEC, EC, ST        2               2
Supervision 10     Mar 95      2           6        PEC, PEC           S               S            AF
Completion         May 96      3           1        RR, 00             S               S
Key to specialized staff skills
PA        Project Assistant           EC         Economist                       PEC        Poverty Economist
CD        Community Development       LO         Loan Officer                    PM         Project Management
DP        Data Processing             00         Operations Officer              ST         Statistician
NGO       NGO Specialist              RR         Resident Representative
Key to performance rating
2        : Moderate Problems                                  S         Satisfactory
Key to problems
AF       : Availability of Funds                             TP         Training Progress



APPENDICES
A. MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE
Guinea - PADSE (Projet d'Appui au Developpement Socio-Economique)
Meeting to discuss IDA's Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
May 2, 1996
Introduction
1.    At the request of the project Task Manager, a meeting to discuss IDA's
Implementation Completion Report for the PADSE project was held on May 2 1996 at
the Resident Mission. The aim of the meeting was to gather reactions from the part of the
Guinean Government and the other donor involved in this project, CIDA (Canadian
Cooperation). In attendance were, on IDA side: Eduardo Locatelli (Resident
Representative), Ann Condy (Charge d'Operations), Cherif Diallo (Charge d'Operations),
Robert Ngong (Consultant) and Nawale Curtis (Personal secretary); on the Government
side: Ibrahima Sangare (Coordinator of PADSE), Oumar Kouyate (Head of Section, Pilot
Programmme) and M. Diallo (Head of Section, Living Standards Monitoring). Mme.
Sidibe, Head of Section of Social Policy Planning, was unable to attend. Jean-Claude
Maillot represented the Canadian Cooperation.
General Comments
2.1   The Government found overall that IDA's ICR reflected to a large extent their
own findings which are presented in their project completion report. However, they felt
that some significant details were missing, and in a few places the ICR made assertions
and criticisms which they found to be exaggerated.
2.2   The Canadian Cooperation found that the ICR posed some contradictions: at
certain points, a component or IDA or Government performance was rated as satisfactory
whereas the rest of the text suggested it was to some extent deficient, or vice versa. Yet
by the end of the meeting, the Canadian Cooperation acknowledged that explanations
given for why a component had performed less well than expected helped justify the
overall ratings.
Social Policy Planning Component
3.1   Government objected to harsh criticism of the Policy Planning Component (e.g., it
failed to achieve its objectives). In its defense, it pointed out that thematic studies had
been carried out; although the National Commission on Social Policy (Commission
Nationale de Politique Sociale) never met, there had been regular meetings of a substitute
committee for this purpose, which had identified the concept of relative poverty in



23                          Appendix A
Guinea. The studies did have some impact on policy and action in a few areas; for
instance, studies on sanitation formed the basis for a NGO (Africare) sanitation project in
Conakry. However, it admitted that in terms of application ("mise en oeuvre") and
translation of studies into policy, this component did not achieve its objectives. The
Canadian Cooperation agreed that it was difficult in most countries to produce good
social policy. Nevertheless, translating studies into policy was precisely the purpose of
this component, hence the strongly worded criticism in the ICR was justified. This was a
general concern of the Cooperation, given what they see as the LPDH's (Lettre de
Politique de Developpement Humain) similar inability to translate study and survey
findings into policy and action. The Resident Mission proposed that the strong critical
wording for this component could remain in the ICR, but that the report should also
mention attenuating circumstances explaining some of the reasons for failure to achieve
objectives. The Government asked that section 1.16 read: "To the extent that the
objectives of the Policy Planning component have not been completely [Government
insertion] achieved, ....
3.2   Concerning staff capacity, the Resident Mission pointed out that the project was
supposed originally to have been located in the Ministry of Social Affairs, but this
Ministry had lacked the capacity; then, when it was located in the Ministry of Planning,
Mme. Sidibe had been placed in charge effectively on her own, when more skilled staff
would have been necessary.
3.3   In terms of technical assistance, Government said that most studies had been
carried out by foreign consultants, which had a negative impact on the component in
terms of capacity building and technical transfer. It said that in a future project, it would
use short-term, foreign technical assistance, to enhance local capacity.
Pilot Program
4.1   The Canadian Cooperation disagreed with the finding that the achievement of
poverty reduction objectives had been substantial in the pilot program zones of
intervention (section 1.7). The Resident Mission also suggested that there should have
been clearer objectives for this component: identification of appropriate pilot projects
responded to too great an extent to local requests. Government insisted that intervention
zones had been identified to some extent through the project's studies, which identified
key pockets of poverty; furthermore, this background detail is given in the Government's
own project completion report.
4.2   The Government objected to the ICR's criticism of the pilot program's
management unit (PPMU) for being led by civil servants with a civil service mentality; it
pointed out that one of the aims of the project had been to reinforce the Ministry of
Planning and, thereby, civil service capacity. The Resident Mission pointed out that this
component of the project had been housed in what, at the time, had been the most
appropriate place. Government also insisted that NGOs had been assured of autonomy in
their project management.



24                          Appendix A
Living Standards Monitoring
5.1   In response to comments on the long delays incurred by this component,
Government pointed out that since they had not been involved in the preparation stage of
the project, they had been unable to comment on the proposed timetable for this
component which, they felt, had been unrealistic, failing to take into account certain
inevitable delays, including those resulting from the lack of locale, office equipment and
statistical packages at the outset of the project.
5.2   The Canadian Cooperation inquired why the ICR criticized technical assistance
(TA) for this component (which had been funded by the Cooperation) as lacking in
"intellectual leadership". Government claimed that the TA did not organize the work
tasks effectively or give direction to the Government team, and so had been no stronger
than the nationals. It suggested that reasons for the TA weakness could have been
funding constraints and the limitation imposed by the Cooperation that only Canadian
organizations could respond to the letters of invitation or bidding documents. The
Cooperation maintained that it believed funding had been adequate to attract capable TA.
Future Operations
6.1   The main concern was the future of the Policy Planning component, in particular
how to translate studies and data on poverty indicators into policy and action. The
Canadian Cooperation urged Government to take decisions about how it intends to
respond to poverty issues in the light of two different approaches: currently IDA still
appears to regard the need for this type of project as a mechanism for responding to the
negative effects of structural adjustment; on the other hand, the UNDP is promoting the
LPDH, which covers all sectors, but for which an effective policy-making and executing
mechanism, and funding are still lacking. The question is how the Government should
best coordinate and effectively implement actions resulting from all donor initiatives vis-
a-vis poverty, to avoid the problems highlighted in section 3.1. Government claimed that
other mechanisms would be needed to ensure the viability of this component in a second
project. However, the Resident Mission urged that rather than thinking in terms of
another mechanism (e.g., another committee or working commission), the capacity of
Mme Sidibe and her staff should be reinforced and they should be made responsible for
the production of policy and planning statements, and for ensuring that they feed directly
into poverty reduction or alleviating activities.
6.2   For all the components, it was urged that the Government be fully involved in the
preparation stages of a second project, to avoid unrealistic timetables, and to ensure that
decisions about where to house components and appropriate mechanisms for
implementation are made on the basis of full consultation and exchange of ideas.
6.3   For the pilot program, it was urged on IDA side that adequate monitoring
mechanisms be ensured in future, and that macro-level data should more effectively feed
into the design and identification of the micro-level projects.



25                          Appendix A
Specific comments
7.1   For the Government, Mr. Sangare objected to the last sentence in section 1.15: he
maintained that there had never been any difficulties or tensions in his relationship with
the heads of the three project components, which had a negative impact on project
management.



B.    BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
MINISTERE DU PLAN ET DE LA COOPERATION
PROJET D'APPUI AU DEVELOPPEMENT
SOCIO-ECONOMIQUE (P.A.D.S.E)
A. EVALUATION ADINISTRATIVE
- DE LA STRUCTURE
La structure du PADSE est composee de trois (3) services techniques coiffes par
une cellule de coordination.
- Des Acquis:
On peut admettre que cette structure a fonctionne a peu pres normalement sur le
plan vertical puisqu'elle a permis d'atteindre les objectifs assignes a chacune des
composantes.
- Des insuffisances:
Sur le plan horizontal par contre il faut dire que la structure nta pas fonctionne car
les concertationsqui etaient souhaitees entre les composantes n'ont presque pas vu le jour.
DU PERSONNEL
- Mise en Place
Le PADSE a employe deux categories de travailleurs:
1 )- Les fonctionnaires detaches
2)- Les contractuels.
Les fonctionnaires ont e  mis d'office a la disposition du projet par arrete
ministeriel tandis que les contractuels ont e  recrutes par voie de test au fur et a mesure des
besoins.
- Les Acquis
1. Au plan du recrutement



27                             Appendix B
Le recrutementdu personnel contractuel par voie de test a permis de selectionner
dans l'ensemble un personnel competent et motiv6 dont la mise en oeuvre a 6t6 relativement
ais6e.
2. Au plan Administratif
Le Personnel du Projet a acquis une experience remarquable A tous les niveaux,
notamment en matiere de gestion et d'administrationdes projets, A travers la maitrise des
procedures des bailleurs de fonds (IDA, Banque Mondiale, BAD, et ACDI) dans les
domaines, entre autres, des passations de marche de fournitures et de selection des
consultants.
3.- Au plan Technique:
A l'excepticn de la composante "Planification Sociale" oua l'essentiel des travaux a
et6 ex6cute par les experts du Bureau d'Etudes AGRER, les cadres des autres composantes
ont, a travers la pratique quotidienne appuyee par des programmes de formation tant A
l'interieur qu'a l'exterieur, acquis une certaine maitrise dans leurs domaines de competence
respectifs.
Ainsi, les cadres de l'UGPP apres un depart tres timide ont finalement acquis la
maitrise des techniques li6es A l'evaluation et au suivi des micro-proj ets.
Les cadres de l'enqudte ont, apres deux (2) enqudtes de grande envergure l'ESIP et
I'EIBC, maitrise les techniques li6es a la prdparation des enquetes, la conduite des
operations sur le terrain, I'analyse et l'interpretationdes r6sultats. De meme les enqueteurs
se sont familiaris6s avec les techniques de collecte d'informations sur le terrain.
Insuffisances:
1. Le Personnel d6tache a ete mis a la disposition du Projet par arrete ministeriel sans
qu'aucun crit&re de selection ne soit defini de commun accord avec la future Direction du
Projet.
2. Le personnel contratuel quant A lui nWa beneficie ni de contrat de travail, ni de couverture
sociale pendant toute la duree du Proj et.
3. Au niveau de la gestion quelques anomalies ont 6t6 relev6s notamment le recrutement A
plein temps d'un personnel qui doit etre employe de fa,on ponctuelle.
Aussi, les systemes de controle inteme requis pour une gestion efficace et transparentes des
ressources humaines devraient etre clairement definis a travers un reglement interieur.
4. De la n6gociationdes marches: des retards prgjudiciablesau bon d6roulementdu projet
ont 6te accuses A ce niveau. Les raisons de ces retards sont imputables principalement A la



28                            Appendix B
longueur des delais d'approbation observes A chaque etape de la procedure chez les bailleurs
de fonds; la procedure comprenant en moyenne trois (3) etapes.
- la selection des concurrents
- le depouillementdes offres
- la negociationdu contrat.
LES DECAISSEMENTS.
Deux procedures de Payement ont et utilisees dans cette premiere phase du projet.
10)- Les payements directs qui ont servi au reglement des depenses liees aux grands
marches de fournitures et a l'assistance technique.
2)- Le compte special qui est un fonds renouvelablemis A la dispositiondu projet
et exclusivement destine au reglement de la part des depenses admissibles financee par la
banque.
Acquis:
L'acquis principal au niveau des decaissements aura ete la maitrise des procedures de
decaissement par le personnel commis A cette tache et ce grace aux deux seminaires
organises par la BAD et la Banque Mondiale respectivementen 1993 et 1994.
Insuffisances:
Des retards considerable ont ete enregistres tout au long de la periode meme si l'importance
de ces retards varie d'un bailleur A l'autre et que des amelioration notables ont e observees
progressivement.
Les causes des retards peuvent etre apprehendes aux deux niveaux suivants:
a)- Au niveau des bailleurs de fonds, ils pourraient etre attribues aux procedures
intemes et/ou au moyen de payement utilise: virement ou cheque, ce demier etant plus lent.
b)- Au niveau du Proj et, le cofinancementde certaines depenses de fonctionnement
par la Banque Mondiale et le Gouvemement guineen a ete une source de conflit permanent
entre le PADSE et le Departement des decaissements de la Banque en raison de
l'irregularite quasi permanente qui a caracterise la mise en place des fonds de contrepartie.
Les retards enregistres dans la mise en place des fonds de contrepartie sont imputables tant
A la lourdeur de l'Administrationqu'A la faiblesse des ressources financieres de l'Etat.



29                             Appendix B
PERSPECTIVES
II est indispensable de doter le projet d'un organigramme comportant. outre les
cellules techniques, une cellule administrative et financiere bien structuree.
L'organigramme sera assorti d'etudes de postes cas par cas afin d'eviter d'une part la
surcharge des uns et le desoeuvrement des autres, d'autre part les conflits de comp6tence, les
crises d'autorite ou autre abus d'autorite.
Au plan du Personnel
II est souhaitable que la Direction du Projet soit associee a la selection des
fonctionnairesdevant servir au Projet. Mieux, il serait souhaitable d'envisager le payement
de leur salaire au sein du Projet.
Aussi, un reglement interieur est-il necessaire afin de discipliner le personnel.
Le personnel sous contrat doit etre engage sur la base d'un contrat de travail avec le
1)epartement et doit par consequent etre couvert par la s6curite sociale pendant la duree de
la periode contractuelle.
Au plan des decaissements l'ideal serait de rapprocher le plus pres possible les fonds du
site du Proj et.
Le compte special en est une forme certes, mais avec son plafond actuel il ne permet
de resoudre les difficultes a ce niveau.
En consequence, et pour permettre un fonctionnementadequat du projet, il s'av&e
raisonnable d'envisager la revision de la procedure du compte special en vue de lui donner
un r6le plus etendu par le relevement sensible du plafond.
Enfin, vu les possibilites tres limitees de l'Etat, la reduction de sa participation au
cout du projet est plus que souhaitable afin de la ramener a la juste limite de ses possibilites.
B. UNITE DE GESTION DU PROGRAMME PILOTE (UGPP)
1- Personnek
Le personnel de l'UGPP est compose de contractuels et de fonctionnaires detaches
au niveau de la Direction Nationale des Investissements Publics (DNIP).
1.1 Acquis:



30                            Appendix B
L'UGPP a reussi a elabore des outils appropries de travail (Guide d'elaborationdes
projets a l'intentiondes promoteurs, conventions, contrats, guides d'evaluation) lui
permettant de faire efficacement son travail. Ceci a ete renforce par un seminaire de
formation en gestion de projets avec le cabinet Canadien SETYM International Inc. et des
voyages d'etudes en Bolivie et en Afrique.
De plus elle a acquis une experience dans la collaboration avec les ONG
internationaleset etrangeres (CECI, Terre des Hommes, ADRA, Anges Gardiens).
En un mot, le personnel a acquis les capacites necessaires pour evaluer et suivre les
sous-pojets sociaux et economiques.
1.2 Insuffisances:
-     Manque d'organigrammeprecisant les taches et attributions du personnel;
-     Manque d'outils de travail adequats au demarrage du projet;
-     Manque d'effectifpar rapport a la diversite des taches assignees;
-     Incompetence de l'assistance technique durant les deux (2) premieres annees.
II- Mecanisme d'execution du Programme Pilote:
2.1 Acquis:
Ciblage des interventions sur des secteurs sociaux comme la sante, l'education; prise
en compte bien que tardive des resultats de l'ESIP dans la repartition des investissements;
parfaite connaissance des realites des populations a travers les contacts au cours des
missions sur le terrain.
2.2 Insuffisances
Absence d'un programme coherent d'interventionau niveau regional et sectoriel;
mecanismes et procedures d'approbation des sous-proj ets assez longs; difficulte de
mobilisationdes fonds de contre-partie.
III- Impact de la mise en oeuvre du Programme Pilote
3.1 Impacts sociaux:
L'ordre de priorite etabli par le PADSE dans la mise en oeuvre du programme Pilote
est base sur les sous-projets a caractere social.
Ainsi, 64 ecoles, 39 postes et Centres de Sante, 23 sous-projets de voirie, 13 sous-
projets de formation, 10 sous projets economiques, 1 sous-projet d'assainissementurbain et
1 sous-projetd'installationde panneaux solairesont e  realises.



31                             Appendix B
3.2 Impacts iconomigues
1.191 ouvriers qualifies appartenant A 6 corps de metiers differents (ma,ons,
coffreurs, ferrailleurs, menuisiers, peintres, ingeneiurs) et 306 apprentis ou aides non
apprentis, soit 2 497 travailleurs, ont re,u 552.095.000 FG de revenus.
IV- Aspect Structurel et Administratif
Au cours de la phase pilote, la coordination a assure l'essentiel de la gestion de
l'UGPP en raison de l'indisponibilitea plein temps du Directeur de la composante qui etait
partag6 entre cette demiere et sa Division au niveau du Departement.
C'est pourquoi, A l'instar de l'Enquete, il serait souhaitable:
1)- Qu'un nouveau Directeur soit designe et qu'il soit detache exclusivement A la
mise en oeuvre de la cellule.
2)- Qutun gestionnaire soit A la disposition de la cellule pour s'occuper des questions
administrativeset financieres de la cellule sous l'gide de la coordination.
3)- Qu'il soit mis A la disposition de la composante tous les moyens materiels,
logistiques necessaires a son bon fonctionnement.
V- Perspectives
Pour ameliorer la mise en oeuvre du volet social, il serait souhaitable A I'avenir de:
a)- Relever de fa,on significative le plafond du compte special.
b)- Approuver au niveau national, les sous-projets dont les cofits seraient inferieurs
ou egaux A 100.000 dollars US.
c)- Financer le volet Social entierement par les contributions des bailleurs de fonds
(investissementet fonctionnementdudit volet) pour eviter les retards provenant de la non
disponibilite A temps des fonds de contrepartie. Au besoin, on pourrait cr6er un compte au
niveau d'une banque de la place exclusivement reserve au financement du volet social.
d)- Mettre en place un programme d'investissement;
e)- Selectionner les differents intermediaires (ONG, Collectivites decentralisees,
etc...) ayant fait leurs preuves au cours de la premiere phase et e1argissement des



32                            Appendix B
conventions de sous-traitance aux ONG nationales qui ont fait preuve de competence et de
serieux.
C. COMPOSANTE ENQUETE PERMANENTE AUPRES DES MENAGES
1.    La mission assignee a l'Enquete Permanente aupres des Menages (EPM) est le
renforcement de la Direction Nationale de la Statistique et de l'Informatique (DNSI) a
concevoir, executer et exploiter des enquetes pour le suivi des conditions de vie des
menages. Il s'agissait de mettre sur pied de maniere continue une banque de donnees sur
tous les aspects de niveau de vie des menages par la creation au sein de la DNSI d'une
division "Enquetes et Prix".
2.    Le bilan de l'EPM est globalement positif. L'Enquete sur les Informations
Prioritaires de l'Adjustement Structurel (ESIP) executee en 1991 a connu une large
diffusion a travers le seminaire national de presentation des resultats tenu en octobre
1992. Le rapport final de l'ESIP est devenu pour les planificateurs, decideurs et
chercheurs, tant du secteur public que prive, une reference incontournable. C'est l'unique
source qui met a la disposition des utilisateurs l'essentiel des indicateurs socio-
economiques a I'echelle nationale. En meme temps que l'ESIP une enquete
communautaire a ete realisee. Elle foumit des informations sur le disponibilite des
infrastructures socio-economiques (routes, marches, centres de sante et ecoles) et les prix
pratiques pour les produits et services de consommation courante au niveau des zones ofi
se sont deroulees les enquetes. Du 27 janvier 1994 au 10 fevrier 1995, 1'EPM a realise
l'Enquete Integrale avec volet "Budget et Consommation" (EIBC) en apportant une
innovation (saisie mobile et decentralisee par l'utilisation de micro-ordinateurs portables)
qui minimise de fa,on considerable les erreurs d'observation et reduit les delais de mise a
disposition des resultats. Les donnees de l'EIBC sont en train d'etre traitees et
permettront, en plus de la mise a jour des statistiques fournies par l'ESIP, l'elaboration
d'un profil de pauvrete pour la Guinee. Des etudes sont deja effectuees en utilisant les
donnees de L'EIBC: evaluation des beneficiaires et analyse des recouvrements des couits
des secteurs sociaux, analyse du comportement des menages en matiere de consommation
(calcul des coefficients d'elasticite par rapport au revenu et aux prix, d6termination des
apports nutritionnels et energetiques de la ration alimentaire), etude sur le comportement
des menages en matiere d'education, de sante, d'emploi, elaboration des comptes des
menages et des entreprises familiales pour les besoins de la comptabilite nationale. Ces
etudes permettent de combler le vide enregistre au niveau du manque d'analyses
approfondies des resultats de l'ESIP. Par ailleurs les resultats de l'EIBC permettront a la
DNSI de disposer d'un systeme de ponderation pour l'elaboration d'un indice de prix
national a la consommation. Certaines donnees de l'EIBC (nutrition, vaccination,
education et acces a l'eau potable) seront utilisees par l'UNICEF pour la revue a mi-
parcours du "Programme National d'Action en faveur de la Survie et du Developpement
de la Femme et de l'Enfant". La banque de donnees de 1'EPM est un des maillons
essentiels du Systeme d'Informations Sociales mis sur pied par l'UNICEF. L'ESIP et
l'EIBC constituent les seules references au niveau national pour obtenir des donnees
fiables (les enquetes precedentes etaient limitees a Conakry ou a une region donnee). Ces



33                             Appendix B
donnees s'inserent de facon harmonieuse dans le Systeme National d'Informations
Statistiques et en constituent d'ailleurs un des maillons essentiels.
3.    L'ESIP et l'EIBC ont permis d'accroitre considerablement les capacites des cadres
nationaux a concevoir, organiser et executer des enquetes. Dix (10) cadres de la DNSI
ont et formes aux techniques de contr6le de la collecte des donnees d'enquetes sur le
terrain. Cette formation pratique a et completee par une formation de cinq mois en
"statistiques et traitement des donnees d'enquetes" a l'Ecole Nationale Superieure de
Statistique et d'Economie Appliquee d'Abidjan. De meme, les capacites d'analyse des
cadres nationaux se sont considerablement accrues: le rapport final de l'ESIP a ete
entierement redige par les cadres nationaux et celui de I"EIBC est sur la voie de l1'tre
aussi. Dans ce meme ordre d'id6e, la methodologie utilisee en Guinee pour executer
l'EIBC (saisie decentralisee et mobile par l'utilisation des micro-portables) a ete concue
par les cadres nationaux et est sur la voie d'etre appliquee dans d'autres pays.
4.    Les insuffisances du programme sont d'ordre:
- institutionnel: non fonctionnement du comite des utilisateurs. Les contacts entre
l'EPM, les utilisateurs et les autres producteurs ont et des contacts informels. Cependant
les seminaires ont ete des occasions de reunir tous les producteurs et utilisateurs de
donnees statistiques. Sur le plan pratique, il est indispensable de privilegier cette piste
qui consiste au niveau de chaque enquete d'organiser trois seminaires (au moment de la
preparation, a mi-parcours et au moment de la diffusion des resultats);
- administratif: livraison tardive des vehicules et du materiel informatique et mise en
place tardive de l'assistance technique;
- financier: retard des operations A cause de l'unicite du compte special ou le plus
souvent la coordination est obligee de faire des arbitrages entre le financement d'une
operation de l'EPM et celui des sous-projets ou des autres depenses de fonctionnement du
projet.
5.    Compte tenu des performances enregistr6es durant l'execution du projet tant sur le
plan de la gestion que celui de la realisation des objectifs, il est indispensable d'assurer le
suivi regulier de l'ensemble des indicateurs socio-economiques mis sur pied a partir des
donnees de l'ESIP et de l'EIBC. L'EPM se propose comme objectifs suivants dans les
ann6es a venir:
- assurer le suivi des indicateurs de niveau de vie des menages;
- creer un systeme national d'information sur les prix A la consommation;
- poursuivre la formation du personnel d'encadrement dans le domaine des
techniques d'analyses des enquetes; et
- accroitre la capacite de traitement des donnees en vue de promouvoir la
recherche.



34                            Appendix B
D. COMPOSANTE PLANIFICATION SOCIALE
Au prime abord, il est utile de rappeler le programme d'activites elabore en 1990.
1. Preparation et documentation.
2. Etudes sociales:
1. Securite alimentaire
2. Emploi rural
3. Emploi urbain
4. Habitat
5. Education-formation
6. Sante et nutrition
7. Femmes et developpement
8. Macro-economie et dimensions sociales de l'ajustement.
3. Travaux de synthese.
4. Mise en place d'un systeme d'informations et de documentation.
I. Acquis
Toutes les activites de cette 1 re phase ont et executees.
- Les etudes thematiques elaborees.
- La synthese de ces etudes a ete effectuee par l'extpert resident en juillet 1992.
- Le centre de documentation sociale mis en place.
A la fin de cette Iere phase, il est apparu la necessite d'e1aborer un schema
directeur de developpement socio-economique qui integre a la fois les propositions
contenues dans les etudes thematiques et les actions et projets existants (PNIR,
hydraulique villageoise, education, etc...) sous forme d'un tout coordonne. L'elaboration
de ce schema permettrait de rationaliser la recherche de partenaires pour la mise en
oeuvre des propositions de projets identifies dans chaque etude thematique. Outre la
confection de ce schema, il est egalement apparu necessaire de proc6der a une evaluation
de la pauvrete et d'etablir des indicateurs socio-economiques pertinents permettant de
suivre ltNvolution des conditions de vie des menages.
Les differentes etudes ont permis de definir un profil de pauvrete relative, a l'aide
d'un score d'indicateurs economiques et sociaux appliques aux quatre regions naturelles
du pays. Ainsi, on est parvenu a classer ces regions et a determiner les plus defavorisees
parmi elles. A l'interieur de chaque region, il a ete possible d'identifier les zones les plus
touchees par la pauvrete. Les situations differentes ont ete representees sur une carte,



35                             Appendix B
sous forme de blocs indiquant les dotations en infrastructures sociales et les taux de
couverture en matire d'hydraulique villageoise, de sant6, d'education, etc...
Dans le cadre de l'execution de la 2eme phase, il a ete realis6 les activites
suivantes:
1)- Une 6tude intitul6e "Dimensions sociales du developpement et lutte contre la
pauvrete - pr6paration d'un sch6ma directeur pour les interventions".
2)- Une etude portant sur "Pauvrete et vuln6rabilite en Guinee - Etat des
connaissances, programme d'action, instruments de suivi et d'evaluation" (Version
provisoirejuin 1994).
- Seminaire-atelier sur l'6tude No. 2 regroupant 25 cadres du Ministere du Plan
et de la Cooperation.
3)- Apres ce seminaire, 'etude No. 2 a integre les resultats du seminaire et le
rapport definitif sur ce theme a et6 fait en novembre 1994.
II. Insuffisances
1)- Bien que le coordonnateur du PADSE et le chef de la composante
"Planification Sociale" aient participe activement A toutes les 6tudes sociales, force est de
constater que la r6daction de ces etudes a et6 faite exclusivement par AGRER S.A.
Autrement dit, aucun consultant national n'a ete associ6 A l'elaboration de ces
6tudes.
C'est pour corriger un peu cette lacune que, pendant l'execution du contrat de
prestations de services d'AGRER, il a et propos6 que des consultants nationaux puissent
approfondir les differents aspects de certaines 6tudes. C'est ainsi que cinq consultants
nationaux ont etd recrutes avec l'aval de la BAD.
Compte tenu de ce qui prec&de, 1'elaboration du schdma directeur de
d6veloppement socio-6conomique devra etre effectu6e au premier chef par la partie
Guineenne (Administration et bureaux d'6tudes locaux), ce qui n'exclut pas un appui
ponctuel international.
2)- S'agissant de la formation du personnel de la division en mati&re de
planification de la dimension sociale de l'ajustement, particulierement pour le suivi des
conditions de vie des menages A travers des indicateurs caracteristiques d'emploi, de
securite alimentaire, d'education, etc..., il faut reconnaitre que le transfert a ete sommaire.
Ce n'est pas au cours d'un atelier de dix jours que l'acquisition de cette methode de suivi
peut se faire. Sur ce plan donc, le probleme reste encore entier.



36                             Appendix B
3)- Le travail de la composante "Planification Sociale" a repose essentiellement
sur le Chef de cette composante, car la Division Population et Ressources Humaines avait
peu de cadres disponibles A plein temps.
Par ailleurs, meme si le Directeur National du Plan a e  regulierement informe
sur ce qui se faisait dans la composante, c'etait seulement a posteriori, A titre de compte
rendu.
La Direction Nationale du Plan et de l"Economie n'a pas participe A la decision.
Cette situation devrait etre corrigee au cas oii le projet serait reconduit.












IMAGING
Report No:      1i5b94
Type: ICR



