Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7448-GUI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
MARCH 6, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Annual average, Guinean frf.cs per US dollar)
1986:   GF 345
1987:   GF 428
1988:   GF 475
(As of February 15, 1989, the rate was US$1.00 = GF 560.
That is the rate used in this report.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDF            African Development Fund
BARAF           Bureau d'aide a la reconversion des agents de la fonction
publique
CCEF            Comite de Coordination Economique et Financibre
CENDID          Centre National de Documentation et d'Information pour le
Developpement
CNPS            Commission Nationale de Politique Sociale
DEIP            Division des Enqugtes et Indices de Prix
CIDA            Canadian International Development Agency
DNIP            Direction Nationale des Investissements Publics
DGN             Direction Nationale du Plan
DNSI            Direction Nationale de la Statistique et de l'Informatique
DRHPS           Division des Ressources Humaines et de la Politique Sociale
FY              Fiscal Year
IDA             Ir.ternational Development Association
LTC             Long Term Consultant
MPCI            Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation Internationale
MSPP            Ministere de la Sante Puilique et de la Population
MSF             Medecins Sans Fronti6res
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
NPTF            National Poverty Task Force
PAGEN II        Second Economic Management Support Project
Pilot Program  Pilot Program of Sub-Projects for Socio-Economic Development
PIP             Public Investment Program
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
PPMU            Pilot Program Management Unit
SAL             Structural Adjustment Credit
SDA             Social Dimensions of Adjustment
SDR             Special Drawing Rights
SED             Secretariat d'Etat a la Decentralisation
SEDSP           Socio-Economic Development Support Project
SFA             Special Facility for Africa
SSA             Sub-Saharan Africa
STC             Short Term Consultant
TAF/AfDF        Technical Assistance Fund of the African Development Fund
UNDP            United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF          United Nations Children's Emergency Fund
Fiscal Year: January 1-December 31



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I.  The Economy ..........  ....  ...  ....  ...  ..                            .  1
A.   Background  ........  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..                 . .
B.   The Structural Adjustment Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
II.  Social Dimensions of Structural Adjustment . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
A.   Government Social Policy  ........  ..  ..  ..  ..  .                 .   3
B.   Actions Already Taken ..........  ...  ...  ...                       .    5
C.   Identification of Vulnerable Groups . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
Pattern of Incomes and Expenditures . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
Basic Needs and Poverty ..................    7
Health and Nutrition ..................    7
Education   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  8
Primary and Secondary Education . . . . . . . . . .   8
Technical and Professional Training . . . . . . . .   9
Housing   .   .    .    .   .    .    .   .    .   .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    10
Water and Sewerage.. ..............  10
Transport   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    11
Summary.. .   ...... ........ 11
III.  Non-Governmental Organizations in Guinea  . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
A. History. .  . ............  12
B. Main Activities ..............  12
C.   NGO Promotion and Coordination  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
IV.  Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
A.   Objectives and Approach   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  13
B.   Components  .....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
C.   Social Policy Planning  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
Objectives   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .    14
Work Program                ........ .   15
Organization of Social Policy Studies . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
Social Documentation Center ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  16
D.  Permanent Household Survey ....  .          .  .  .  .  .   ........ .  17
Objectives  .....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  17
Organization and Procedure  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  17
Users' Committee  .           . . . . . . .           . . . . . . .  17
E.  Pilot Program of Socio-Economic Development  . ... . . . . . .  18
Objectives   .  .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .  .    .  .   .   .  .   .    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .    18
Target   Groups   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    18
Sub-Project Selection Criteria  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Management of the Pilot Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Sub-Project Administration and Monitoring . . . . . . . .             20
Examples of Possible Sub-Projects . . . . . . . . . . . .             21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V.  Project Administration Costs, Financing, and Supervision  . . .     23
Organization  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .23
Financing  Plan    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   26
Disbursements   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    26
Procurement   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    27
Accounts and Audits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Reporting   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    28
Supervision.. .   ....  28
VI.  Benefits and Risks of the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
VII.  Agreements and Recommendation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Annexes
1.  Chapter on Social Policy in 1988 Declaration of Government o_-
Guinea's Development Policy
2.  Program of Social Policy Studies
3.  Permanent Househol4 usrvey:  Plan of Operation
4.  Outline of Sub-project Appraisal Reports
5.  Cost Estimates
6.  Project Financing
7.  Terms of Reference of Long-term Advisors
8.  Documents in the Project File
9.  Procurement Methods
MAP No. 21360



i
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Guinea
Implementing Agency:      Ministere du Plan et de la Coop6ration
Internationale (MPCI)
Amount:                   SDR 6.9 million (US$9.0 million)
Terms:                    Standard IDA with 40 year maturity
Cofinancing:              Technical Assistance Fund of the African
Development Fund (TAF/AfDF)
Canadian International Develop:i.ent Agency (CIDA)
Objectives:               The main objectives of the Project are:  (i) to
strengthen the ability of the Government to design
and implement social policies; (ii) in support of
the foregoing, to gain a better understanding of
living conditions, to identify particularly
vulnerable poverty groups and to monitor the
evolution of living conditions during the
structural adjustment process; and (iii) to
implement a priority action program of specific
pilot sub-projects (the Pilot Program) designed to
improve the living conditions of the poor, and to
provide experience necessary for further program
design.
Description:              The Project will achieve these objectives through
(ij strengthening of the staff of the Ministry of
Planning and International Cooperation (MPCI) to
enable it to conduct studies to serve as a basis
for the design, coordination and implementation of
a comprehensive set of social policies consistent
with the Structural Adjustment Program; (ii)
establishment, within the MPCI, of a permanent
household survey that would provide a clearer
picture of living conditions than now exists, and
monitor changes in living conditions over time.
This will provide a better statistical basis for
policy formulation, as well as identify
particularly vulnerable groups that would be the
target of special social action programs; and
(iii) establishment of a Pilot Program that would
finance, mainly through NGOs, pilot projects
designed to improve the access to employment and



ii
basic services of particularly vulnerable poverty
groups, including those adversely affected by the
structural adjustment process, and to create new
employment opportunities.
Project Benefits:          In the short term, the Project will provide,
(i) technical support to strengthen the
Government's capabilities in social policy
planning; (ii) a statistical base on the level and
evolution of household living conditions; end
(iii) experience in designing and implementing,
mainly through pilot sub-projects carried out by
NGOs, actions that will improve the access of poor
and disadvantaged groups to increased employment
opportunities and basic social services.
In the medium term, the Project will lay the basis
for: (i) refined targeting of vulnerable groups;
and (ii) the development of a comprehensive social
policy consistent with efficient growth-oriented
economic policies.
The timing of the Project is appropriate since it
reinforces the positive effects of the Second
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL II) and is
complementary to the Second Economic Management
Support Project (PAGEN II).
Project Risks:             The first risk of the Projec>  is that there may be
delays in implementing the Project arising from
the inexperience of the Government staff that will
manage the project. A second risk is that pilot
sub-projects selected may not be in conformity
with the action programs of line ministries, since
such programs are still at an early stage of
development. A third risk is that implementation
and coordination difficulties may occur as a
result of the complexity of the Project. A fourth
and final risk is that one or more of the NGOs,
selected to implement sub-projects may not manage
project funds efficiently.
The first risk would be countered by providing
experienced advisors to key project managers,
whose main assignment would be to help develop the
abilities of those managers. The seco.d risk
would be minimized by involving the line
ministries concerned in the approval of sub-
projects. The third risk would be reduced by
appointing a Socio-Economic Policy Advisor and
giving a strong project coordination function to
the office of the Minister of Planning. The



iii
fourth risk would be reduced by applying
appropriate procedures for the selection and
supervision of NGOs and by the careful drafting of
sub-project agraements, while recognizing that
unduly close supervision may impede the work of
the NGOs, whose principal advantage lies in their
flexibility and ability to reach their
beneficiaries through imaginative and
unbureaucratic actions.



iv
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
(US$ thousands equivalent)
Costs                                    Local        Foreign        Total
Social Policy Planning                     307           727             1034
Permanent Household Survey                1267          1241             2508
Pilot Program
Management                            196           545              742
Sub-projects                         3600         3600             7200
Project Coordination                       284           215              499
Equipment for MPCI Annex                     0           300              300
Total Base Project Cost                   5654          6629            12283
Contingencies
Physical                               85            66             151
Price                                 678           370            1048
Total                   763           436             1199
(Taxes - p.m.)                            (218)          -                -
Total Financing Required                  6417          7065            13482
Local    Foreign   Total       Z
(US$ thousands equivalent)
Financing
IDA                  4622      4378       9000       67
AfDF                  513      1353       1866       14
CIDA                  106       734        840        6
NGOs                  600       600       1200        9
Government            576                  576        4
6417      7065      13482     100
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
(US$ thousands equivalent)
Calender Year          Annual  Cumulative
1989                600        600
1990               1400       2000
1991               1200       3200
1992               1500       4700
1993               1500       6200
1994               1500       7700
1995               1300       9000



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
L. THE ECONOMY
A.   Background
1.1       The Government of the Second Republic, which came to power in
1984, inherited a country which was in acute economic crisis. Throughout
the 1958-1984 period, the Guinean economy produced at levels well below
potential due to inadequate producer incentives and deteriorating physical
infrastructure. Economic growth remained below the almost three percent
per annum rate of population increase. A major exporter of agricultural
products at independence, the Guinean economy was transformed by the mid
1970s into a major bauxite exporter and a net food importer. The private
sector was largely displaced by a pervasive network of state enterprises in
all sectors of the economy.
1.2       Emphasis on state-managed development did not achieve the desired
modernization and industrialization goals. The currency became increas-
ingly overvalued under pressure from the inefficient public sector. This
resulted in a serious misallocation of resources creating disincentives to
exports and an inability to mobilize domestic savings which led to an
increasingly heavy debt burden. Additionally the dynamic agricultural
sector retreated into subsistence production. In this context, a dual
economy arose. The official sector depended on bauxite exports for its
income, and functioned through an elaborate system of administered prices
linked to a highly overvalued currency. The non-official sector, for its
part, derived its foreign-exchange income from clandestine exports and
private transfers from abroad, and supplied the domestic market largely
with smuggled or pilfered imports. Its scope expanded steadily as the
supply of goods imported through official channels became insufficient to
meet demand for foodstuffs and other essential goods.
1.3       By the early 1980s, the Guinean economy experienced severe
financial difficulties. The financial position of the Government was
eroded by the poor performance of the public enterprises and the inadequacy
of the tax system. Tax receipts and transfers from the enterprises
declined as the private informal sector grew to dominate consumer trade.
Meanwhile budgetary subsidies to the enterprises expanded. The economy's
external position became unsustainable, chiefly due to public investment
outside the mining enclave which failed to generate returns adequate to
service the associated external debt.
1.4       The new regime which took control in April 1984 inherited an
economy which is a development challenge. Guinea is one of the poorest
countries in the world. Per capita income in this country of 5.6 million
inhabitants (1986) is less than US$300 (1986), thus placing Guinea among
the least-developed countries of the world (as defined by the United
Nations). Living standards are very low, as reflected in key social
indicators: life expectancy is 41 years, infant mortality is approximately
160 per thousand, more than 80 percent of the population lacks access to
safe water, and 80 percent of the population is illiterate.



2
B.   The Structural Adjustment Program'
1.5       In an effort to reverse the longscanding deterioration of the
economy and redress financial imbalances, the new leaders launched a far-
reaching stabilization and adjustment program in late 1985. Its primary
objectives were to restore internal and external balance, and to lay the
foundations for sustained growth, based on re-'ucing the state's role,
encouraging private initiative, and relying on market forces to correct
price relationships. Specific measures to meet these broad objectives were
designed to: (i} correct the serious overvaluation of the currency; (ii)
establish a new, reliable, banking system to replace the defunct state
banks; (iii) introduce institutional reforms to promote private sector
savings and investment; (iv) decontrol prices; (v) liberalize internal and
external trade; (vi) reduce the scale and imprcve the efficiency of the
public sector by lowering employment levels and by withdrawing from
commercial and industrial activity; and (vii) reorient public investment
toward supporting the directly productive sectors.
1.6       The first phase of the adjustment program (1985-88) was supported
by IMF Stand-by and SAF arrangements, IDA and SFA structural adjustment
credits totalling SDR 38.5 million, extensive non-project financial
assistance from France, Japan, Switzerland, and the United States, and the
IDA/financed Technical Assistance Project for Economic Management (SDR 9.7
million).
1.7       The first phase of the adiustment program has yielded encouraging
results. The economy grew by 6 percent in real terms in 1987, resulting in
an increase of over 3 percent in per-capita income. There is clear
evidence of revival in the agricultural sector, with the rehabilitatic. and
renewal of coffee plantations and the significant expansion in areas utmder
rice cultivation. The small-scale enterprise and service sectors,
principally construction, agroindustry, transport, and trade are also
expanding significantly. These supply responses reflect the shift in
economic decision-making away from the public sector toward the rural and
private industry and service sectors. Of the 128 state enterprises in
existence in 1984, 69 had been liquidated by mid 1988, 20 had been
transferred to private ownerships, another 20 were in the process of
privatization or liquidation, and only 19 were to be retained in the
Government's portfolio.
1.8       Administrative reform centered on staff reduction and
decentralization. At the outset of the program, there were around 90,000
public sector employees, .excluding the military and paramilitary forces but
including those working for the mining companies. The latter--some 14,000-
-were removed from civil service rolls and are now the responsibility of
the mining companies. A further 16,000 have been removed from active
service, through a variety of schemes--obligatory retirement, voluntary
departure, early retirement and an "administrative reserve". It is
estimated that by end-1988, the civil service rolls had been reduced to
about 63,000, again excluding the military and paramilitary forces. At the
end of 1988, wage payments were stopped for the former employees in the
administrative reserve, and test results were announced that will lead to a
further 10-12,000 departures.  This was a major step in reaching the



3
Government's goal of a civil service of no more than 45,000. It is a
substantial achievement, even though it was accomplished cver a longer
period than was originally expected, given the political sensitivity of the
exercise and the time needed to put in place .n adequate framework for
administering the reform.
1.9       A second phase of the adjustment program was begun in 1988,
supported by a second IDA Structural Adjustment Credit of SDR 47 million,
approved in June 1988, with additional financing from France, the European
Community, the African Development Bank, Japan and the United States. The
second phase will also be supported by a Second Economic Management Credit
of SDR 11.3 million approved in November 1988, with cofinancing from
several other donors. Under the second phase of the adjustment program,
the Government will seek to achieve sustained economic growth over the
medium term. Specific measures will be aimed at: (i) strengthening the
management of public finances through improved budgeting, resource
mobilization and expenditure control; (ii) further reductions in the civil
service to be followed by adoption of a new incentive-oriented salary scale
to replace the present extremely low - and flat - scale; (iii) improving
the legal and institutional framework to enhance efficient resource
allocation; (iv) establishing complementary measures in support of growth;
and (v) designing compensatory measures to improve the conditions of life
of the poor, concentrating on the most vulnerable groups and those directly
affected by the transitional costs of adjustment. The Government
recognizes that growth of per capita income is a necessary, but not a
sufficient, condition to alleviate poverty. Therefore, it has decided to
implement, in the framework of its Structural Adjustment Policy, a
comprehensive social policy reform, aimed at fostering the participation of
the poor in the benefits of economic growth and at mitigating the
trar-itional impact of adjustment on vulnerable groups;.
II. SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
A.   Government Social Policy 1/
2.1       The Government is fully committed to growth and Doverty
alleviation and is aware that the simultaneous pursuit of these two
objectives implies:
(i) the introduction of transitory measures to protect vulnerable
groups while growth gradually resumes; and
11   Social Policy in this context is here defined as promoting growth with
equity, providing the poor with access to services which meet their
basic needs: health, education, houising, sanitation, infrastructure
and ensuring their ability to effectively participate in the growth
process by increasing their access to employment opportunities and
income generating assets.



4
(ii) the development of a comprehensive social policy reform concerned
with increasing the participation of the poor in the growth
process.
2.2       According to the Government of Guinea's 1988 Declaration of
Development Policy, 2/ the reform program aims to achieve an acceleration
in the real growth of GDP, that will lead, in the medium and long term, to
an increase in employment, income, and per capita consumption, as well as
to an improvement in the welfare of the population. The benefits of the
program have already been experienced in rural areas where there is
increased agricultural investment and output, in response to freer markets
and better prices, and more activities by other private enterprises,
particularl. those in the informal sector. The Government expects a start-
up of operations by privatized public enterprises to sustain this
improvement over the medium term.
2.3       Before the full benefits of growth can be realized the Government
is preoccupied by the social costs imposed (i) on groups disadvantaged by
the reforms; and, more generally .ii) on the most vulnerable groups during
the transitional period of the adjustment process. Specifically, the
Government is concerned by the unemployment associated with the lay-offs of
civil servants and public enterprise employees, and with the large number
of unemployed graduates now that the Government no longer offers them jobs
automatically. It fears that the loss in purchasing power as a result of
price increases (rent, transportation, food products, and health services)
as well as pressure on the food expenditure of the low-income groups and
those without direct access to agricultural output, could seriously affect
incomes and welfare in the capital.  The Government intends to monitor the
social situation carefully.
2.4       As noted above, the Government in 1988 adopted a set of basic
objectives for social policy, including the integration of social
objectives into the overall process of adjustment and economic development.
Since 1985, the economic and financial aspects of development have been
entrusted to a ministerial level Economic and Financial Coordinating
Committee (CCEF). One of its main objectives is to ensure effective
implementation of the Structural Adjustment Program. The Government now
intends to create, not later than December 31, 1989, a National Commission
on Social Policy (CNPS), also at the ministerial level, designed to
supervise the development of social policies in line with the above noted
section on social policy contained in the 1988 Declaration of Development
Policy. The CNPS and its official-level sub-committee would replace the
National Poverty Task Force (NPTF), described in para 2.9 below.
2.5       A position of senior socio-economic advisor would be established
in the office of the Minister of Planning and International Cooperation, a
2/   The portion of the Declaration dealing with the social dimensions of
adjustment is reproduced as Annex 1. The full text of the Declaration
will be found in Annex V of the President's Report on the Second
Structural Adjustment Program (Report No. P-4805-GUI, dated May 24,
1988).



5
position parallel to that of the senior economic adviser in the same office
(a position filled at present by an economist seconded from the World
Bank). The socio-economic advisor would in all probability be a Guinean
now resident abroad who would be employed on contract. He would be the
Secretary of the CNPS, and chairman of an official level subcommittee
supporting the CNPS. He would also be the Coordinator of the proposed
Socio-Economic Develcpment Support Project. Appointment of that advisor
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit, but the
Government has been urged to designate him sooner if possible, since he
will play a key role in the start-up and administration of the Project.
His initial expenses would be financed under a US$150,000 PPF approved in
February 1989.
B.   Actions Already Taken
2.6       While the main immediate benefits of the adjustment program have
favored rural producers, the Government adopted a number of transitional
measures during the first phase of the adjustment program in order to
cushion its adverse effects on vulnerable groups in urban areas. These
included: (i) pending aaoption of a new salary scale, additional payments
to civil servants to partially compensate for increases in the cost of
living resulting from the devaluation and other adjustment measures; (ii)
continued payment on a temporary basis of salaries to civil servants who
benefited from transitory reserve status; (iii) voluntary departure bonuses
with access to loans on favorable conditions for civil servants with bank-
able projects (see para. 2.7 below); (iv) advisory services to the
retrenched civil servants; (v) labor intensive publ.ic works programs to
create employment in Conakry funded by France and through the supplement to
the IDA-financed Urban Project (Supplemental Credit No. 1466-1-GUI, of
US$4.5 million, approved in June, 1987); and (vi) emphasis in the Public
Investment Program on labor-intensive projects and training programs.
2.7       To ease the absorption of redundant civil servants by the private
sector, the Government created an employment advisory service (the Bureau
d'Aide A la Reconversion des Agents de la Fonction Publique - BARAF) in
March 1987 that provides assistance in preparing bankable projects. Under
this scheme, civil servants departing voluntarily can use their severance
pay as down payments to secure loans up to five times that amount. By
October 1988, some 9,400 employees had departed voluntarily, and 1,750
project ideas had been presented, of which some 410 were expedted to be
approved by the end of 1988. However, the BARAF scheme encountered
problems and its operation has been suspended pending the setting up of a
more effective mechanism to help micro-enterprises (see paras.. 4.8 and 4.9
below). In addition, as part of the program of labor-intensive public
works in Conakry, the Government is setting up a scheme to support the
development of small building construction enterprises. That scheme will
provide management counseling, training, equipment and working capital to
local entrepreneurs. One component will focus on developing techniques
with high labor intensity. This scheme is also being financed under IDA
Credit No. 1466-GUI.
2.8       The Government intends to reach the poorest segments of the
population in rural areas through decentralization and the development of



6
local initiatives. The Government has established a Fund for the
Assistance of Local Initiatives, supervised by the Secretary of State for
Decentralization. The projects to be funded will be submitted by local
governments and will not exceed US$10,000. The projects being financed
will focus on small scale activities in rural areas designed to improve
living condition3. The proposed Pilot Program of sub-projects for socio-
economic development will reinforce those efforts, mainly through projects
to be carried out by NGOs (see paras. 4.17-4.27).
2.9       Following discussions with Bank staff managing the UNDP-financed
program for studying the Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA), Guinea
established a National Poverty Task Force (NPTF) in September 1987, in the
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (MPCI), with special
assistance from the representatives of UNICEF in Conakry. The NPTF was
composed of representatives of the departments concerned with planning,
finance, housing, health, social affairs, rural development, transport and
decentralization, as well as representatives of international organizations
such as World Bank, UNDP, and UNICEF. The NPTF completed, with the support
of UNDP-financed consultants, a first overview of the social sectors. Its
report, entitled "Composante Sociale du Deuxieme Pret d'Adjustement
Structurel, Rapport du Groupe de travail interminist4riel" includes a
poverty profile of the country, the identification of vulnerable groups in
rural and urban sectors, the definition of specific criteria for the selec-
tion of projects to be undertaken within the framework of a priority action
program, and the identification of a first series of projects in the areas
of basic education, primary health care, nutrition, employment generation,
and micro-credit schemes. The NPTF was essentially a temporary body, which
performed valuable preparatory work, under external leadership, It will be
replaced by the CNPS, described in paragraph 2.4 above, a truly national
body.
C.   Identification of Vulnerable Groups
2.10      In the absence of a permanent household living standards survey,
the vulnerable groups were tentatively identified in the NPTF's study,
first, by examining the poverty profile in Guinea in monetary terms (income
and expenditures); and second, by assessing the access to basic services.
2.11      Pattern of Incomes and Expenditures.  Presently available data on
household incomes and expenditures in Guinea are scarce. The most reliable
sources are the following:
(i) the surveys on household expenditures conducted by the MPCI in
1986 and 1987 to evaluate the consumer price index for a basket
of goods in Conakry;
(ii) the surveys on housing in Conakry conducted in 1986 and 1987 by
the Urban Planning Unit;
(iii)  the data on salaries, wages and other remuneration from a study
of the informal sector (Etude sur le secteur informel en Guinee,
Ministere de l'Industrie et du Commerce, 1987).



7
2.12      The usefulness cf the data in these surveys, for the purpose of
assessing living conditions of households in Guinea, is limited by the
following factors: (i) the surveys were not designed specifically to
assess household living conditions; (ii) comparison among sources is
impractical as a different sample base was used in each survey, and the
surveys were conducted at different periods in an inflationary context;
(iii) income and expenditure figures cannot be reconciled, because of the
existence of barter, transfers in kind, and secondary actiPities, all of
which were not always taken into account, and because of the tendency of
responding households to over-estimate expenditures and under-report
income.
2.13      Despite these weaknesses, the result of these surveys provide a
tentative statistical picture of household income and expenditure in
Guinea. In the context of this Project, the data will be reviewed and
enriched once the permanent household survey is implemented.
2.14      Although the GDP per capita in Guinea increased over the last two
years, from 117,400 GF in 1986 to 121,900 GF in 1987, the real income
situation at the household level has deteriorated. The real average income
per household in Conakry was estimated at 67,000 GF (in 1986 francs) in
1987, in comparison to 72,000 GF in 1986. The percentage of households
earning less than the general average increased from 69 percent in 1986, to
75 percent in 1987. Furthermore, the inequality of household income
becomes more apparent when the data is analyzed by sex. In 1986, the
average income of households headed by women (45,900 GF) was significantly
lower than that of households headed by men (71,400 GF).
2.15      There are also marked differences in income by socio-economic
group in Guinea. Civil servants in Conakry are at the bottom of the scale
of incomes, earning even less (17,500 GF per month in 1986) than salaried
workers in the informal sector (23,125 GF per month in 1986). However,
many civil servants supplement their government salaries with earnings from
private activities. Entrepreneurs in the informal sector earn an average
of 183,500 GF per month. It is difficult to quantify regional disparities
in household income in Guinea. Nevertheless, the country-wide study of the
informal sector conducted in 1986-87, showed that (i) the average incomes
of entrepreneurs, salaried workers and apprentices were systematically
higher in Conakry; and (ii) the proportion of low income earners was
systematically higher outside of Conakry. The basket of basic needs (food,
housing, clothing, transport, health, education, others) in Conakry has
been evaluated by the MPCI to cost 68,500 GF. In 1986, more than 40
percent of the households had expenditure levels below this amount.
Basic Needs and Poverty
2.16      Health and Nutrition.  The health status of the population in
Guinea is among Che lowest in the world: life-expectancy at birth is 41
years compared to 50 for sub-Saharan Africa (SSA); infant mortality, 160
per thousand, compared unfavorably to 105 per thousand for SSA, and the
overall mortality rate, 30 per thousand, exceeds the average for SSA of 18
per thousand. Health standards suffer from a lack of safe drinking water
and poor environmental and personal hygiene, particularly in rural areas.



8
2.17      Although health care services in Guinea are generally poor, the
rural population has much less access to available health services than
their urban counterparts as reflected by the geographical distribution of
facilities and the concentration of resources in urban areas: Conakry,
with 12 percent of the population, has 45 percent of the doctors, 58
percent cf the pharmacists, 58 percent of the midwives, and 54 percent of
the dentists. Health services are provided essentially through a public
network comprising two national referral hospitals in Conakry, four
provincial hospitals, 29 prefectoral hospitals, 313 health centers at the
sub-prefectoral level and 205 health posts in villages. In addition, there
are 15 maternal and child care centers located primarily in urban centers
throughout the country. Medical facilities, dental clinics and
laboratories located outside of Conakry often do not function properly
because the facilities are poorly equipped and maintained and lack
budgetary resources for operating costs. Furthermore, the efficiency of
existing services is weakened by insufficient and inadequately trained
personnel, and the absence of in-service training programs. As a result of
these obstacles, only a small proportion of the rural population use public
health facilities, a fact that is particularly serious for women and
children. In 1988, an IDA credit (No. 1837-GUI) of US$19.7 million was
made in support of a major health services project in Guinea. The project
is designed to develop planning and management capabilities in the Ministry
of Public Health and Population (MSPP), support policy and administrative
reforms in public health services, improve basic health care in Middle
Guinea, and develop cost recovery.
2.18      Although nutrition data on the Guinean population are scarce,
available survey data show that malnutrition is widespread among pregnant
women, lactating mothers, and young children. 7ipper and Middle Guinea are
more affected than other regions by malnutrition due to drought and
problems of pre-harvest food shortage.
2.19      Education.  Literacy levels in Guinea are exceedingly low and
must be increased if the population is to receive the beneficial effects of
the Structural Adjustment Program (i.e., understand changes in the economic
environmzent, adapt to these changes, gain access to the resources such as
credit which will enable them to partake in the economic life of the
country). In 1983, the national census estimated that 88 percent of the
population (over 6 years) was illiterate: 55 percent for Conakry, 92
percent for Upper and Middle Guinea and 86Z in the Forest region. The
national adult literacy program had, in 1986, a budget allocation
representing only 1 percent of total public education expenditures in the
country.
2.20      Primary and Secondary Education.  Ths school enrollment rate
experienced a decline from a peak of 33 percent to a low of 27 percent in
1986-87. Principal deficiencies in the system are:
Ci) low (and declining) enrollment levels in basic education (hence
poor/limited coverage);



9
(ii) poor allocation of limited resources leading to skewed resource
distribution and disparities between levels and types of
education and different types of expenditure (tendency to protect
salaries, even of inefficient or excess personnel and cut
essential operating costs notably of pedagogical materials). The
budgetary allotment for education has decreased since 1985 from
14 percent to 10.7 percent in 1987, and most of budgetary
expenditures are for salaries (99.6Z in primary and secondary
levels). There is a pronounced difference in educational
services between urban and rural areas such that school-age
children in rural areas suffer from a distinct disadvantage;
(iii) very poor quality and internal efficiency of education at all
levels (high repetition of students; preoccupation with inputs;
little knowledge or control of process and no measurement of
output quality);
(iv) lack of coherence between the training system and the
employment/labor market; and
(v) weak planning, analytical and managerial capacity of major
agencies dealing with education and training.
2.21      Low school attendance in rural areas can be attributed to several
factors: (i) there are deficiencies in personnel, infrastructure, and the
quality of education; (ii) children in rural areas form an important part
of the reserve labor force, due to the high incidence of labor-intensive
technologies, particularly for poorer households; and, (iii) socio-cultural
factors inhibit the education of certain groups, particularly girls, who
are expected to assist their mothers both in the field and at home.
2.22      In urban areas, notably Conakry, high levels of unemployment
among recent secondary school and university graduates has lessened
interest in education. The opportunity cost of education is high for
children who are engaged in informal sector activities and the small-scale
business sector in order to supplement family incomes.
2.23      IDA has made two education credits in Guinea (No. 849 in 1978 for
US$8.0 million, and No. 1341-GUI in 1983 for US$11.0 million). These
projects encountered severe difficulties and the second one has now been
reorganized. An education sector rehabilitation project is now being
prepared for IDA financing.
2.24      Technical and Professional Training.  Attendance in technical and
vocational schools decreased by 8 percent in 1986 and 16 percent in 1987.
The elimination of automatic hiring in the public sector, the absence of
information on job opportunities in the modern private sector, the under-
qualification of trainers and the lack of equipment and training material
in technical and vocational training schools have contributed to the drops
in registration levels. The poor linkage between training programs and the
job market is also a major reason for this decline. At least until
recently, graduates perceive few openings in the private sector for their
skills. Access to employment in the informal sector is difficult given the



10
limited number of openings and constraints such as transmission of jobs
along traditional lines (e.g., family/ethnic connections).
2.2f      Housing.  Housing is particularly an urban problem in Guinea,
especially in Conakry. In the rural areas, traditional housing exists with
few amenities, yet rural inhabitants suffer less than those living in urban
areas from problems of over-crowding, larceny, and dilapidated structures.
Urban residents encounter these and other problems such as relatively
under-equipped buildings, and deficient provision of water and sewage
disposal facilities. In Guinea, 48 perc?nt of households occupy single
family housing. This proportion varies significantly between regions (24Z
in Upper Guinea, 42? in Middle Guinea, 49Z in the Forest and 77Z in Lower
Guinea). Heads of households generally own their houses (85%), except in
Lower Guinea where only 23 percent are owners. Traditional housing
characterizes rural areas (Middle Guinea 85?, Upper Guinea 83Z, and the
Forest Region 56Z), whereas Lower Guinea has a higher share (62Z) of modern
housing. Low-income households occupy 60 percent of traditional housing in
urban areas. To support the provision of better housing in Conakry, the
Government is establishing a program to develop serviced building plots
with the aid of the UN Habitat program aimed at helping departing civil
servants and others to construct better housing. Unfortunately, the cost
of these plous is estimated to be quite high, putting them beyond the reach
of the lowest income groups. The Government is now discussing with IDA a
second urban development project that would include a major, low-cost sites
and services program in Conakry.
2.26      Water and Sewerage.  Guinea has one of the least developed urban
water supply networks in West Africa, with only nine urban centers out of
35 equipped with piped systems. Less than half of the urban population of
about 1,5 million, of which 0.7 million live in the capital city of
Conakry, have access to piped water, while the remainder rely on unsafe
sources for their water needs.
2.27      In the urban areas, the constraints to access to water and
sewerage are related to general problems of technical efficiency, financing
availability and quality. As well, the productive capacity of traditional
services is much less than demand due to the increase in urban population,
particularly in Conakry where the population has more than dou.bled since
the water supply system was established and the system has deteriorated
over time. Many neighborhoods are serviced by water trucks and/or th- use
of public fountains or pumps from which water is removed by buckets and
bowls which are often contaminated. Additionally, not all public
facilities were constructed hygienically. In the rural areas, water supply
is a quantitative problem in the north of Middle and Upper Guinea, and a
qualitative problem throughout the country where many villages do not have
potable drinking water.
2.28      A second water supply project (Cr. 1985-GUI), was approved by the
Executive Directors in February, 1989. It will support on a thorough
reorganization of the water supply sector and of its finances. It -will
include a major expansion of the water supply network in Conakry.



11
2.29      Transport.. As with housing, water and sewerage, the problem of
transport differs between Conakry and the rest of the country. The
population of Conakry is relatively well-served and transport limitations
are presently being addressed through the first IDA urban project and
French and African Development Bank financing.
2.30      Transportation services are more deficient for the population
living outside Conakry. Many isolated regions are more than 10 km. distant
from the closest road. This is the case for the prefectoral zones of
Gaoual, Dabola, Dinguiraye, Kouroussa, Mandiana, Kissidougou and Gueckedou-
West. There are also serious deficier.cies in transportation for inter-
urban traffic in the interior while demand is increasing. In 1986, over 10
million persons and 800,000 tons of goods were transported in the country;
in 1987, these numbers increased by 6% and 162 respectively. Currently,
Government priority is to re-establish the national network before work
begins on secondary routes. Several donors are contributing to this
program, including IDA (Credits No. 1457-GUI, April 1984; No. 1515-GUI,
June 1987; and No. 1915-GUI, June 1988).
2.31      Summary.  In sum, the Government is taking or planning actions on
several fronts that sooner or later will have favorable repercussions on
the standards of living of the poor. So far, it has concentrated on
assistance to public employees who have left or will leave their Government
or state enterprise jobs as part of the adjustment process (paragraphs
2.6 and 2.7 above). Moreover, once the civil service reform is complete,
the Government intends to revise the whole salary scale upward, thus
helping the category of salaried workers that are the worst paid. It is
also moving, as noted above, with programs in the areas of health and
nutrition, education, training, housing, water supply and public transport,
all of which, when finally implemented, will substantially improve the
conditions of life of the poor. Most of these programs, however, will
achieve material results only over a considerable period of time--the pace
of accomplishment being severely constrained by the limitations of
organizational capacity, shortage of trained Guinean managers, scarce
finance, and infrastructure deficiencies.
2.32      In the meantime, the Government has decided at the same time that
it establishes an institutional system for socio-economic policy
formulation and coordination, to institute actions that will, on the one
hand, improve its ability to understand and deal with problems of poverty
in the medium and long term, and, on the other hand, facilitate a program
of grass-roots action, largely through NGOs, that will bring about fairly
quick improvements in the living standards of particularly vulnerable
segments of the population. This program, costing about US$11.9 million
would be supported by the proposed IDA credit of SDR 5.8 million (US$7.6
million equivalent).



12
III. Non-Governmental Organizations in Guinea
A.   History
3.1       In 1985, the Government of Guinea announced that it had opted to
pursue a development policy of decentralization, encouraging local branches
of government and community organizations to take increasing responsibility
for the development initiatives in their immediate communities. At the
same time, the Government began to encourage the entry of international,
non-profit, community oriented, non-governmental organizations, and the
development of national organizations of the same type. As in other
countries, NGOs are contributing a dynamic i t,.e development process which
is unique and invaluable. Having access tu .xternal sources of financing
and extensive experience at the grass roots level, typically with small
scale, community development projects i.e. dams, health centers,
cooperatives, they have been able effectively to complement the overall
development efforts of the Government and the international donor
community.
3.2       Responsibility for fostering the decentralization process,
including the encouragement of NGOs, is entrusted to a Secretariat of State
for Decentralization (SED) which is responsible for formally recognizing
and registering NGOs, domestic and foreign. NGOs in Guinea support many
worthwhile projects and by emphasizing community participation in the
identification, design and implementation of such projects have achieved a
high success rate.
B.   Main Activities
3.3       Presently there are 74 national NGOs and 52 international NGOs
operating in Guinea active in both urban and rural areas. These NGOs are
all at different levels of development and cover a wide variety of
activities. Although many NGOs focus on cultural projects, more and more
are becoming involved in the p;oductive and welfare sectors, including
primary health care, rural development and water sanitation, education and
training, employment and income generation, social welfare, and technical
assistance,
3.4       At present the NGOs have a particularly important role to play
vis-&-vis the structural adjustment process in Guinea. NGOs will be able
to assist in meeting the immediate needs of vulnerable groups during the
period of transition and facilitate their participation in the growth
process.  For these reasons, the international donor community has given
special support to the work of NGOs, thereby helping to ensure that the
development projects that they finance are indeed reaching the most
vulnerable groups of the population. In June 1988, the resident missions
of UNICEF and the World Bank completed a comprehensive directory of NGOs
which is an up to date account of the NGOs now operating in Guinea.
3.5       Another type of NGO may become more important in the near future,
namely village associations (groupements villageois), which are pre-
cooperatives. Their formation is being promoted with technical assistance
financed under the FY89 IDA credit for agricultural research and extension



13
(Credit No. 1955-GUI). Such associations would carry out small rural
investments such as storage sheds, workshops, drainage schemes, water
points, etc.
C.   NGO Promotion and Coordination
3.6       Many of the national NGOs face the continual challenge of
financing their development programs. With a relatively new or non-
existent track record, national NGOs find it difficult to obtain credit.
Since there has been a large and fairly quick proliferation of NGOs,
financing institutions need to obtain enough information on each NGO to
avoid financing inappropriate ventures.
3.7       In principle, the newly founded NGOs deserve strong support, but
given their inexperience, many of them will need technical assistance in
the design, implementation and supervision of projects. For that reason,
association with experienced international NGOs, or other voluntary
organizations (Volontaires du Progres, Peace Corps, etc.) will be
encouraged. This will help both to carry out projects successfully, and to
transfer experience to the newly formed national NGOs.
3.8       The NGOs in Guinea have not yet organized a central coordinating
body such as FONGTO in Togo or CONGA in Senegal. There is consequently
very little coordination between the various NGOs and indeed perhaps
duplication of effort. There is also no central body capable of speaking
for NGOs as a group.
3.9       Given their special character, NGOs provide a particularly
appropriate channel through which pilot projects can be financed. Through
the NGOs, the country will gain a great deal of experience in the operation
of various interventions directed at improving welfare at the same time
that various target groups are assisted.
IV. Project Description
A.   Objectives and Approach
4.1       The Socio-Economic Development Support Project is designed to
initiate a process that will enable the Government to develop a long-term
program for alleviating poverty in Guinea as a complement to the growth-
promoting objectives of the Structural Adjustment Program. In the short-
term, the Project would support actions to improve access to employment and
basic services for particularly vulnerable groups including those adversely
affected by the structural adjustment program. Under the Project, the
Government would create the institutional basis for social policy
formulation, set up mechanisms for developing the statistical framework for
social policy, and initiate a set of pilot interventions, to a large extent
on a test basis, that will serve as design models for systematic and
replicable assistance to vulnerable groups. In so doing, the Project
should help to overcome the present lack of funds, institutions and
delivery mechanisms to implement social programs, as well as the lack of
important statistical information concerning the level and the evolution of



14
living conditions of households, in both urban and rural areas. Finally,
the Project should serve as a focal point for supporting the CNPS (see
para. 2.4) in developing systematic social policies and coordinating the
programs of line mirn4.stries--health, education, urban development, labor,
agriculture, etc., insofar as those programs include the provision of
services to low income portions of the population.
B.   Components
4.2       Three components constitute the core of the Socio-Economic Deve-
lopment Support Project:
(i) Social Policy Planning: The Project would support the
strengthening of the Human Resources and Social Policy Division
(DRHPS) in the Direction Nationale du Plan (DGP) of the MPCI.
The DRHPS would be responsible for (i) carrying out, with its own
staff and with consultants, studies of important issues of social
policy; (ii) integrating the results of those studies, and the
results of the permanent household survey into the design of
social policy and of the structural adjustment program, and (iii)
following the implementation of social policies;
(ii) Monitoring Living Standards: The Project would support the
strengthening of the Direction Nationale de la Statistique et de
l'Informatique (DNSI) of the MPCI by creating a new Survey and
Price Indices Division (DEIP) that would organize and implement a
permanent household survey to track the evolution of living
conditions of households throughout the adjustment process;
(iii) Pilot Program: The Project would support the establishment of a
Pilot Program of sub-projects for socio-economic development.
The program would be managed by a new Pilot Project Management
Unit (PPMU) within the Direction Nationale des Investissements
Publics (DNIP) of the MPCI. The Unit would be responsible for
identifying, appraising, and monitoring pilot poverty-alleviation
sub-projects to be financed under the Pilot Program, for judging
their consistency with Government sectoral policies, and for
evaluating the capabilities of the agencies carrying out the
projects.
C.   Social Policy Planning
4.3       Objectives.  The Government intends to strengthen its capacity to
design and implement comprehensive social policies and programs. The
ultimate objective is to ensure the participation of the poor in the growth
process and to protect vulnerable groups in the population, including
during the transition period of adjustment.



15
4.4       Work Program.  The principal tasks of the DRHPS would include:
(i)   synthesizing for the Government the results of the previous work
of the NPTF and various other existing studies concerning the
social sectors; and analyzing the results of social interventions
performed by the Government, NGOs and others, including projects
to be financed by the SEDP;
(ii)   examining and analyzing the results of the permanent household
survey;
(iii)   carrying out studies that will help the Government to define its
social policy. Subjects to be investigated would include the
profile of poverty and the identification of particularly
vulnerable groups to which interventions should be targeted;
nutrition and food security; the relationship among education,
income, and the demand for education; similar relationships among
health, income and the demand for health services; housing
demand; the relationship between employment and poverty, and the
role of women in development;
(iv)   in close consultation with sector ministries, introducing a
poverty alleviation component into sectoral policies in the
framework of SAL II;
(v)   defining a comprehensive national policy for alleviating poverty
including its sectoral components.
4.5       Organization of Social Policy Studies.  A key to success of the
studies program will be the strengthening of the staff of the DRHPS with
one or two competent and dynamic Guinean economists/sociologists. It may
take some time to identify the individuals who can fill these positions
successfully, and it may, therefore, not be possible to initiate this
component as quickly as the other two - but this may not be a serious
disadvantage since the policy studies will lean heavily on the results of
the household survey and on the experience of the pilot projects to be
financed under the SEDP.
4.6       Once qualified staff has been appointed to the DRHPS, an
internationally recruited economist/sociologist would be assigned to the
division to advise on the establishment of a program of studies, the
elaboration of terms of reference for the studies, and the designation of
short-term consultants who would, with the participation of Guinean
counterparts, actually conduct the studies.
4.7       A possible program of social policy studies for the DRHPS, to be
refined once its staff has been strengthened, is set out in Annex 2. The
program would be carried out over four years and would contain both
macroeconomic and social components. The macroeconomic component would
include studies to define social objectives and seek means of harmonizing
them with macroeconomic policies. The sectoral component would be composed
of studies which would help in defining, in close consultation with sector



16
ministries, the social content of sectoral policies and would rely heavily
on the data from the permanent household surveys.
4.8       The program of studies would include the preparation of an action
plan to support the development of micro-enterprises, with the objective of
improving access to employment of particularly vulnerable groups, including
those adversely affected by the economic reform. The action plan would
consist of two principal parts: (i) creation of a system to provide
technical assistance and finance for very small businesses; and (ii)
creation of a system to facilitate access to serviced plots for small
entrepreneurs. Two special Task Forces would be created to advise on the
studies needed to provide the basis for each of these systems. The Task
Forces would consist of representatives of agencies already active in each
of the two areas, and would draw on their experience. They might also
include representatives of one or more NGOs that have experience in this
field. The MPCI would supervise the studies, which would be assisted by
short-term consultants as needed.
4.9       The studies and recommendations on assistance to micro-
enterprises would draw on the experience of the BARAF (para. 2.7) and the
micro-enterprises scheme helped by Morocco (para. 4.26(b)). Thev would
also draw on experience with similar schemes in other countries. They
would include; (i) the evaluation of the growth potential for various
types of micro-enterprises in various sub-sectors, and of the related
demand for serviced sites; (ii) the mecnanisms for tha preparation,
appraisal, and selection of micro-enterprise projects and for the
allocatio- of serviced sites; (iii) the training and financing mechanisms
for the development of small-scale enterprises, including serviced sites,
and the methods of cost recovery. The plan for serviced sites would
include in addition, proposals for the physical design of a pilot program
of serviced sites integrating the various needs identified; and (iv) the
roles and responsibilities of the agencies that would execute the program.
4.10      Social Documentation Center.  The available documentation on
social issues in Guinea is extremely diffuse. It is desirable that this
documentation be reorganized in a documentation center which has the
necessary facilities to make this documentation accessible to all potential
users. In this context, the present Project includes the creation of a
Social Documentation Center within the Centre National de Documentation et
d'Information pour le Developpement (CENDID). CENDID is a newly created
documentation center under the authority of the Secretariat d'Etat a la
Recherche Scientifique. It has sufficient physical space to house the
equipment necessary for archives and reproduction of documents. Its
activities include amongst other things, collecting, processing analysing,
classifying, and distributing the documents relating to economic and social
development in Guinea. The Project will help CENDID to collect and manage
the social documentation by financing an additional library technician and
small-scale equipment and furniture.



17
D. Permanent Household Survey
4.11      Objectives.  In order to establish a base of data on the living
conditions of the various groups in the population, and then to monitor
changes during the structural adjustment process, the Government will
establish a permanent household survey. The survey will cover a
representative sample of households, in rural as well as urban areas, in
each of the natural regions of the country. The survey will be based on an
integrated questionnaire covering key indicators of employment, income,
consumption, savings, access to social services such as education and
health, access to housing, and nutritional status (particularly for
children). Both inter- and intra-household transfers will be investigated.
4.12      Organization and Procedure.  A new Surveys and Price Indices
Division (DEIP) has been created within the Direction Nationale de la
Statistique et de l'Informatique (DNSI). The DEIP will have responsibility
for continuing existing surveys of consumer expenditures with the support
of the second IDA-financed economic management support project, and for
launching a permanent household survey in the context of this Project.
These surveys will be amplified over time to include other variables (e.g.
social indicators). The plan of operation of the survey is set out in
Annex 3.
4.13      The permanent household survey will commence with a preparatory
phase including: (i) establishing the sample frame; (ii) selecting the
sample; (iii) designing the questionnaire; (iv) installing the
infrastructure and equipment; (v) training the personnel for the survey;
(vi) pre-survey testing of the questionnaire; and (vii) preparing the final
version of the questionnaire. This first phase will be completed by the
collection and processing of the initial data. Subsequent phases will
continue the process, with refined questionnaires and modified samples in
the light of experience.
4.14      The DEIP is headed by a competent trained statistician.  He will
be assisted by an internationally recruited advisor with experience in
design and management of surveys. Appointment of the advisor would be a
condition of effectiveness of the credit. The organization of the unit
will be based on a central bureau in Conakry and six regional offices. The
central bureau in Conakry will consist of the unit responsible for the
overall management of the survey, and of two survey teams in charge of
gathering the information from households in Conakry. The six regional
offices will be responsible for collecting the information from the
households in their respective regions: Boke, Faranah, Kankan, Kindia,
Labe, and N'Zerekore.
4.15      A Users' Committee will be established by September 1, 1989
within the MPCI under the responsibility of the DEIP. The committee will
ensure the active participation of all the agencies involved in the
execution of the permanent survey and the utilization of its results. It
will also oversee the results of the survey as well as the analyses and
socioeconomic studies and their dissemination. The Committee will be
composed of representatives from the DEIP, the DRHPS, and the PEMU; other
ministries concerned (Rural Development, Health, Education, etc).



18
E.   Pilot Program of Socio-Economic Development
4.16      Objectives.  The third main component of the Project would be a
Pilot Program through which funds would be channeled to small, grass roots
pilot sub-projects assisting vulnerable groups in the low-income segment of
the population. Sub-projects would cover such activities as vocational
training, support of very small enterprises, and access to basic services
such as education, health, serviced sites and shelter. Valuable in
themselves, such projects would also give Guinea a body of experience in
combating poverty and creating access to employment that will form a
valuable basis for the design of larger scale interventions later on, as
well as for the formulation of broader social policies. Most of the pilot
projects would be carried out by NGOs, national or foreign, although a
request from a public agency (e.g. a local government or ministerial
agency) would not be turned down if its proposal met the agreed criteria
(see paras. 4.17 and 4.18). The Program would cover up to US$7.2 million
of sub-projects, of which US$6.0 million would be drawn from the IDA Credit
and an estimated US$1.2 million from the funds of NGOs and other
implementing agencies. Implementing agencies would be required to meet the
cost of their own staff from their own funds. Funds would be passed on as
grants, unless all or part of a sub-project were revenue-earning, in which
case the government would lend the funds on terms acceptable to IDA.
4.17      Target Groups.  Agreement has been reached with the Government on
a number of initial target groups to which finance from the Pilot Program
would be channelled. The agreed target groups are specific enough to guide
the selection process, but they would be applied flexibly so as to be
operationally feasible in a country where precise statistical data are rare
and often unreliable. The main groups to which assistance would be
directed include:
a)   those below the poverty level, defined as those whose incomes are
insufficient to provide for basic needs. At present the data to
measure this level are inadequate but should gradually improve as
data from the household survey become available and are analyzed.
b)   households lacking access to basic services and other forms of
support;
c)   people in isolated rural areas who lack essential infrastructure
and basic services;
d)   women and children (especially pregnant and lactating mothers and
infants) whose nutritional needs are not being met;
e)   persons who have lost their jobs and those (such as school
graduates) who are unable to find employment as a result of the
administrative reforms introduced under the structural adjustment
program, i.e., those who are in danger of becoming the new poor.



19
The definition of target groups would be refined as results of the
household survey and of the policy studies to be conducted by DRHPS become
available.
4.18      Sub-Project Selection Criteria.  Six important project selection
criteria would be applied to projects financed under the Pilot Program:
(i) To the extent possible, projects should incorporate employment
and income generating activities, that would extend beyond the
life of the sub-project.
(ii) The practical and operational feasibility of the sub-project
should be demonstrated. To that end the sub-project executing
agency should possess the management, staff, and financial
capability to carry out the project. Normally, projects would be
carried out by NGOs with a proven track record. However, efforts
will be made to reinforce the capacity of as-yet-inexperienced
NGOs by associating an experienced one with it. The bottom line
is that the NGOs should have the capacity to ensure honest, rapid
and effective implementation of the sub-project.
(iii) Foreign NGOs accepting funds from the Pilot Program would be
required to train Guinean nationals so that ultimately they can
take over management of the project.  Every effort should be made
to design sub-projects in such a way that they would continue if
the NGOs were no longer involved.
(iv) The NGOs concerned should be capable of meeting the salaries of
their own staff from their own resources. To that end, as noted
above, a notional US$1 million (i.e., about 20Z of the estimated
aggregate costs of sub-projects) has been included in the
financing of the sub-projects to be assisted through the Pilot
Program.
(v) sub-projects should be consistent with the sector strategies and
programs of the technical ministries concerned; and
(vi) sub-projects should not entail future operational expenditures
beyond the capacity of national or local budgets, or user
charges, to finance.
4.19      Management of the Pilot Program.  Day-to-day management of the
Pilot Program would be assigned to a new division, the Pilot Program
Management Unit (PPMU), within the Direction Nationale des Investissements
Publics (DNIP) of the MPCI. The Director of the PPMU, a Guinean to be
chosen for his management experience, would be assisted by an
internationally recruited advisor with experience in project financing, and
by one or two operations officers.
4.20      When the credit becomes effective, the PPMU would issue and
disseminate widely an announcement about the Pilot Program, describing its
objectives and selection criteria, and inviting NGOs to submit project
proposals to the PPMU. Project proposals would be dealt with by PPMU on a



20
first-come-first-served basis. Staff of PPMU would appraise the project,
in discussions with its sponsor, and drawing upon outside technical advice
where necessary. Funds would be available under the project to finance
such short-term advisory services. If the sub-project sponsor had not
prepared the project completely, the PPMU would extend preparation
assistance as appropriate. In each case, PPMU would obtain the advice of
the SED, the agency responsible for following the activities of NGOs in
Guinea, and that of the technical ministry (education, health, social
affairs, etc.) in whose purview the project fell. PPMU would then issue a
brief project evaluation report (5 to 10 pages) describing the project and
demonstrating how it met the criteria established for project selection. A
list of subjects to be covered in such reports is attached as Annex 4. At
the appraisal stage it would be necessary to exercise careful judgement, on
the one hand to ensure that the project is consistent with the purposes of
the Pilot Program and is operationally feasible, and, on the other hand, to
leave the sponsoring NGO the flexibility and freedom to operate at the
grass roots, that are the hallmarks of such organizations. The appraisal
should be light enough to preserve this autonomy and to enable decisions on
sub-project eligibility to be reached quickly. At the end of the appraisal
of eligible sub-projects, PPMU would negotiate a draft sub-project
financing agreement between the Government and the implementing agency.
4.21      All sub-project evaluation reports would be submitted to a Pilot
Program screening committee, chaired by the senior socio-economic advisor
and consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Plan and International
Cooperation, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Ministry of Social
Affairs, the Secretariat of State for Decentralization and representatives
of the technical ministries concerned. If and when the NGOs in Guinea
create a coordination body, as would be desirable, it should be invited to
designate one or two NGO representatives to sit on the screening committee.
Decisions would normally be by consensus. The committee would be empowered
to endorse, reject or propose modifications in sub-projects. Sub-projects
endorsed by the committee would be submitted to the Minister of Planning
for final approval.
4.22      All sub-projects would be subject to approval by IDA after
submission by the Government. To facilitate the process, Sub-projects
costing GF 15 million (US$27,000 equivalent) or less would be considered
approved by IDA if IDA had not responded within 15 days of the Sub-
project's submission. It is planned to delegate to the Bank's Resident
Mission in Conakry a major role in the review of sub-projects submitted to
IDA.
4.23      Establishment of the PPMU, appointment of its manager , and
recruitment of the external advisor would be conditions of effectiveness of
the IDA credit.
4.24      Sub-Project Administration and Monitoring.  PPMU would be
responsible for sub-project administration and monitoring. Disbursement of
grants would be in installments as project execution progressed, as spelled
out in each sub-project agreement. After disbursement of the first
installment, the implementing agency would be required to submit a report
on the progress in implementing the sub-project prior to the release of



21
each subsequent installment, or every three months, whichever came first.
PPMU would visit every sub-project in the field at least once a year, to
verify that Pilot Program funds were being used for the purposes for which
they were intended. Visits would be more frequent if special problems
arose or were suspected. Sub-project agreements would provide for
suspension of disbursements if the purposes of the sub-project were not
being achieved.
4.25      PPMU would submit to the Minister of Planning an annual report on
the operations of the Pilot Program, containing financial statements, an
account of sub-project successes and difficulties, and an analysis of
lessons learned from the operations of the Pilot Program that are relevant
for future operations and for the Government's socio-economic policies in
general. That report would be prepared in close consultation with the
DRHPS and the SED.
4.26      Examples of Possible Sub-Projects.  The following are examples of
possible sub-projects that might be financed from the Pilot Program. They
are listed here in order to give an indication of the type of intervention
that is envisaged, though these particular sub-projects may or may not be
financed. Complete appraisals of each of the sub-projects would be
prepared by the PPMU as it assesses which projects merit financing.
(a) Kouroussa Health Services. Since June 1986, Medecins Sans
Fronti6res (MSF), a French voluntary organization, has been
rehabilitating health services in the area of Kouroussa, in upper
Guinea, in support of the Government's commitment to a national
health care system which eventually will serve the entire
population of Guinea. MSF is lacking finance for the continuing
rehabilitation of the health center of Kouroussa city, the
prefectural hospital and the construction of and equipment for
health centers in each of five smaller towns. It also seeks
finance to establish a revolving fund for the purchase of
pharmaceuticals, to be replenished by user charges.
(b) Small Enterprise Development. A project has been initiated under
the auspices of the Ministry of Industry to extend technical
assistance to very small entrepreneurs and to grant small loans
averaging US$12,000 to such enterprises. This project is
assisted by the Office of Industrial Development of Morocco,
within the context of the Commission -or Guinean-Moroccan
cooperation, and the first phase is being financed with a UNDP
grant of US$240,000. A similar sum is sought to start up a
second phase.
(c) Women's Information and Enterprise Creation Center (CFIACE).
Created in April 1986, CFIACE is managed by seven women. Its
objectives are: (i) the promotion of businesses owned and
managed by women; (ii) the creation of an information center for
men and women who are in need of technical and/or financial
assistance for their business; (iii) the provision of basic
business management training; (iv) the establishment of a small,



22
flexible, credit program. A two-year budget for its operations
is about US$80,000.
(d) Assistance to Young People. This project, called "La
Samaritaine", was set up in 1987 by a group of Guineans with the
objective of helping the poorest members of Guinean society.
Particular emphasis will be placed on: (i) reintegrating young
people with drug addictions and/or systematic records of criminal
behavior into society, through consultation and training in
income-generating activities; (ii) assistance to children and
young adults who have no adult supervision or support due to
death, or abandonment by their parents and close family
relations; (iii) assistance to widows whose lack of material
support becomes detrimental to herself and the children she
should be supporting. An initial fund of US$60,000 is being
sought.
(e) Rehabilitation of the Handicapped. In 1987, a group of Guinean
professionals organized the Guinean Association for the Training
and Social Reintegration of the Handicapped (AGFRIS). It is
designed to address the problems of the between 7 and 10% of the
population of Guinea who suffer from some form of handicap. Its
objectives are to: (i) organize training and assistance programs
for the handicapped with the goal of their reintegration into the
socio-economic environment; and (ii) create business activities
which can use their skills and permit the handicapped to earn
their own living. AGFRIS is seeking a one-year grant of
US$90,000.
(f) Vocational Training. OIC Guinea is an affiliate of OIC
International, an American NGO dedicated to providing vocational
training to the urban poor. OIC Guinea has started training
programs in Conakry in carpentry, masonry and secretarial work.
It is seeking funds to institutionalize the training center in
Conakry, to replicate that activity in other cities, and to
diversify training into other sectors.
(g) Serviced Sites for Micro-Enterprises. Based on the
recommendations of the special task force on land delivery (para.
4.8), a pilot-operation of approximately 100 serviced sites could
be initiated to accommodate a first group of micro-enterprises.
The sites would be serviced by a developer (possibly SOLOPRIMO)
for an estimated average cost of approximately US$4,000. Some of
the structures required to house the micro-enterprises could be
built by small entrepreneurs in the construction sector whose
establishment is being assisted by a Canadian NGO, with finance
under the Urban Development Project (IDA Credit No. 1466-1 GUI).
4.27      The Pilot Program will also finance a special series of actions
in local communities. Funding in individual grants of US$10,000 to
US$50,000 would be provided with the aim of strengthening culturally
relevant traditional community organizations as vehicles for promoting
developmental actions including, but not limited to, self-help, mutual



23
credit producers' associations, and marketing associations. These special
actions would be based on existing structures and could benefit from the
support of formal NGOs. The actions would be selected by MPCI, which would
seek to ensure variety in both geographic coverage and type of grassroots
organizations supported. The Ministry would review the progress of each
activity and IDA and the MPCI would undertake a comprehensive review of the
program on a yearly basis.
V. Project Administration Costs, Financing, and Supervision
5.1       Organization.  Figure 1 is an organization chart showing how the
Project would fit into Guinea's planning system, especially within the
MPCI. To the greatest extent possible the project has been designed within
the existing institutional structure. One advantage of this is thdt the
results of the social policy studies and the quantitative data-gathering
can more easily be integrated into overall development policy and planning.
Day to day coordination of the project, including personnel and financial
administration would be carried out by the socio-economic advisor whose
staff would include an administrative officer/accountant.
5.2       Office Space.  The present office space of the MPCI is inadequate
to house the Ministry's staff and equipment. Consequently the Ministry
will build an annex adjacent to its main building, to house the DNSI and
other services. It will be the headquarters of the permanent household
survey. Construction costs (estimated at about US$1.2 million) will be
financed by AfDB and the Government. US$300,000 is provided in the
proposed credit for equipment for the annex.



24
Figure .
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF THE SEDSP
|National Commission for Social Policy|
Sub-Commission
(official level)
Minister of Planning and
International Cooperation
Cabinet                            Senior Economic Advisor
Division of Administrative                  *Senior Socio-economic Advisor
and Financial Affairs                       (Project Coordinator)
Press Bureau                                    *Administrator/Accountant
Purchasing Office
Central Secretariat
F Secretary General
Statistics            Planning              Public Investment    International
and Data Process-    Directorate            Directorate           Cooperation
ing Directorate                                                  Directorate
Statistics           Macroecon. Studies   Primary                 Tech.assistance
*Surveys and Price      and Forecasting      Secondary             and grants
Indices (DEIP)        Strategy Planning    Tertiary              U.N. Agencies
National Accounts   *Human Resources        Quaternary            Reg. Agencies
Human Resources        and Social Policy   Public Sector Fin-   EEC Community
Information Tech.      (DRHPS)               arcing
*Pilot Program of
Socio-Economic Dev.
(PPMU)
* Special responsibility under proposed Project.



25
5.2        Costs.   The total. cost of the project, including contingencies
but excluding taxes, is estimated of about US$13.5 million equivalent,
distributed as follows:
USS Thousand Equivalent
(ineluding  ontingencies)
Local      Foreign     Total
Social Policy Planning              329           749       1078
Permanent Household Survey         1824          1530       3364
Pilot Program
Sub-projects                 3800          3600       7200
Management                    239           647        886
Project Coordination                425           239        664
Equipment for MPCI Annex              0           300        300
Total-Net of Taxes           6417          7065      13482
Estimated Taxes (p.m.)       (218)
By category of expenditure, these costs would be distributed as follows:
Local      Foreign     Total
Lone-term Consultants                707         1063       1770
Short-term Consultants               235          601        836
Computing and other Equipment
(including servicing)               -           675        675
Vehicles (including fuel and
maintenance)                        32          552        684
Office furniture                      -            73         73
Incremental Operating Costs          1843         601       2444
Pilot Program                        3600        3800       7200
Total          6417        7086      13482
The Project would finance 150 person-months of long-term consultants and
50 person-months of short-term consultants. Draft terms of reference for
long-term consultants are contained in Annex 7.
5.4        Base cost estimates are in November 1988 prices.   Contingencies
amounting to US$1.2 million have been added to base cost estimates  (except
for the Pilot Program). Physical contingencies of 3Z on long-term
consultants, and 52 on equipment, vehicles and incremental operating costs
have been included. Price contingencies for foreign exchange costs have
been calculated at 5.32 in 1989 and 1990, and 4.1? thereafter.   Price



26
contingencies for local costs, deflated for possible changes in the
exchange rate of the Guinean franc, have been calculated at 15Z for 1989
and 1990 and 102 per year thereafter. Taxes, actual and imputed, are
estimated at US$218,000 equivalent. Detailed cost estimates are presented
in Annex 5.
5.5       Financing Plan.  The Project will be financed by the IDA Credit,
a grant from the Technical Assistance Fund of the African Development Fund,
a grant from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), and
contributions by the Government and participating NGOs. Confirmation of
AfDF and CIDA effectiveness would be conditions of effectiveness of the IDA
Credit. Annex 6 gives the project financing plan by donor and nature of
costs. A summary is provided below:
Financing Plan
(Taxes excluded)
US$ million %
IDA                   9.00       67
AfDF                  1.86       14
CIDA                  0.84        6
Government            0.58        4
NGOs                  1.20        9
Total           13.48     100
5.6       The proposed IDA credit of US$9.0 million equivalent would
finance the services of consultants, equipment, incremental operating costs
and US$6.0 million toward the cost of sub-projects financed under the Pilot
Program. Fees paid to locally recruited contract employees, consisting
mostly of the field teams working on the household survey, are included in
local operations costs. Salaries of civil servants would be covered by the
Government. AfDF and CIDA would finance the balance of consultant costs,
vehicles, computing equipment and office furniture, and participating NGOs
would provide an estimated US$1.2 million toward the cost of sub-projects
that they carry out. The NGO contributions would consist mainly of the
salaries of their own staff. The Government would finance the remainder of
incremental local operating costs and would cover taxes. To ensure that
the Government's contribution was available when needed, it would establish
a special account in Guinean francs from which its share of Project costs
would be covered. After an initial deposit of US$50,000 equivalent, which
woulcl be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit, the Government
would replenish the account as and when required.
5.7       Disbursements.  It is estimated that the proposed IDA credit
would be disbursed over a period of six years, compared to a Regional
Disbursement Profile of seven and a half years for technical assistance
projects. The estimate of a shorter disbursement period is justified by
the record of previous technical assistance credits to Guinea. Year-by-
year disbursements of the IDA credit are estimated as follows:



27
US$ Thousands
Calendar Year          Annual       Cumulative
1989                  600             600
1990                 1400            2000
1991                 1200            3200
1992                 1500            4700
1993                 1500            6200
1994                 1500            7?00
1995                 1300            9000
5.8       The credit agreement would provide for the following disbursement
categories:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated      Percentage
(Expressed in         of Expenditures
Category                             USS Equivalent)       to be Financed
Pilot Program                       6,000,000                   100Z
Consultant services                   440,000                   looz
Equipment                             400,000                   100%
Vehicles                               40,000                   100%
Fuel and Lubricants                    50,000                    402
Incremental Operating costs         1,500,000                    802
Repayment of PPF                      150,000                   100%
Unallocated                           420,000
TOTAL                         $9,000,000
5.9       A revolving fund would be established in a bank acceptable to IDA
(the Special Account). Upon credit effectiveness, the sum of US$100,000
equivalent would be disbursed into that account from IDA's Credit Account.
These funds would be managed by the Project Coordinator (para 2.5) to cover
project expenditures. It would be replenished by IDA on the basis of
eligible withdrawal applications, submitted monthly. Normal documentation
would be submitted with all applications except that incremental operating
costs in local currency would be reimbursed against statements of
expenditures with underlying documentation held available in Conakry for
review by IDA missions. Should any disbursements be made from the Special
Account which are not acceptable to IDA, the Government would deposit the
corresponding amount in the IDA account or refund it to IDA.
5.10      Procurement - Estimates of the amounts to be procured by various
methods are contained in Annex 9.
Services. Most of the internationally recruited consultants,
both long term and short term, would be provided by a consulting
firm to be selected on the basis of proposals to be received from
a short list of firms. Such a list would be approved by the co-
financier that may be involved. The long-term advisor on



28
household surveys would be employed through a direct contract
between the Government and the Canadian Government which would
finance the advisor out of the its contribution to the Project.
The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment for all internationally-recruited advisors would be
subject to approval by IDA. Draft terms of reference for the
long-term consultants are shown on Annex 7.
Goods. Items will be grouped to the extent possible to encourage
competitive bidding. Contracts exceeding US$100,000 in value
would be concluded after full international competitive bidding
acceptable to the Bank. Contracts amounting less than US$100,000
but more than US$25,000 would be awarded following local
competitive bidding procedures according to Bank guidelines.
Minor items costing US$25,000 equivalent or less, in a total
amount not to exceed US$500,000 equivalent, would be purchased
through quotations from not less than three reputable suppliers.
All contracts estimated to cost more than US$25,000 equivalent
would be subject to IDA approval after prior review of
procurement documentation. It would be impractical for IDA or
the PEMU to review in detail the procurement procedures of NGOs
and other agencies implementing sub-projects, but the agreements
between the Government and such agencies would stipulate that the
latter would conduct their procurement in accordance with prudent
business practice.
5.11      Accounts and Audits.  The Government would maintain separate
accounts for all expenditures made under the Project. The accounts and
statements of expenditure would be audited each year by external auditors
acceptable to IDA. The audit reports would be submitted to IDA no later
than six months following the end of the Government's fiscal year.
5.12      Reporting.  The Project Coordinator would prepare semi-annual
reports to IDA, as of June 30 and December 31 of each year, describing the
progress of all components of the Project, problems encountered, solutions
adopted, and the program of work for the following semester. Each report
would include copies of the reports that the Government had received from
agencies implementing sub-projects and a report from PPMU describing its
sub-project monitoring work in the preceding semester, again highlighting
problems encountered and solutions adopted.
5.13      Supervision.  IDA would devote considerable staff resources to
the supervision of this innovative project, financed in part from the
Bank's administrative budget and in part from the non-Bank budget of the
internationally-supported SDA Unit. The Bank's Resident Mission in Conakry
would play an especially important role in supervision. Bank staff would
monitor the conclusion of contracts for consultants and equipment. A
Project Launching Workshop will be organized with the participation of Bank
staff soon after credit effectiveness, to review with senior Project staff
and the long-term consultants the Project's objectives, its design and its
first year work program. Throughout the life of the Project, Bank staff
would advise on the content of the program of socio-economic studies, and
on the design and operations of the permanent household survey and the



29
analysis of its results. Bank staff will review all sub-projects using
funds from the Pilot Program, and will grant or withhold IDA approval for
such sub-projects. Follow-up missions from headquarters will follow
progress regularly, and will visit, on a random basis, a sample of the sub-
projects financed under the Pilot Program.
VI. Benefits and Risks of the Project
6.1       Benefits. In the short term, the Project will provide,
(i) technical support to strengthen the Government's capabilities in social
policy planning; (ii) a statistical base on the level and evolution of
household living conditions; and (iii) experience in designing and
implementing, mainly through pilot sub-projects carried out by NGOs,
actions that will improve the access of poor and disadvantaged groups to
increased employment opportunities and basic social services. In the
medium term, the Project will lay the basis for: (i) refined targeting of
vulnerable groups; and (ii) the development of a comprehensive social
oolicy consistent with efficient growth-oriented economic policies. The
timing of the Project is appropriate since it reinforces the positive
effects of SAL II and is complementary to PAGEN II.
6.2       Risks.    The first risk of the Project is that there may be
delays in implementing the project arising from the inexperience of the
Government staff that will manage the project. A second risk is that pilot
sub-projects selected may not be in conformity with the action programs of
line ministries, since such programs are still at an early stage of
development. A third risk is that implementation and coordination
difficulties may occur as a result of the complexity of the Project. A
fourth and final risk is that one or more of the NGOs selected to implement
sub-projects may not manage project funds efficiently.
6.3       The first risk would be countered by providing experienced
advisors to key project managers, whose main assignment would be to help
develop the abilities of those managers. The second risk would be
minimized by involving the line ministries concerned in the approval of
sub-projects. The third risk would be reduced by appointing a Socio-
Economic Policy Advisor and giving a strong project coordination function
to the office of the Minister of Planning. The fourth risk would be
reduced by applying appropriate procedures for the selection and
supervision of NGOs and by the careful drafting of sub-project agreements,
while recognizing that unduly close supervision may impede the work of the
NGOs, whose principal advantage lies in their flexibility and ability to
reach their beneficiaries through imaginative and unbureaucratic actions.
Disbursements would be in installments as justified by progress in sub-
project implementation.



30
VII. Agreements and Recommendation
7.1       Agreements.  During negotiations, agreement was reached on the
following matters:
(a)  establishment of the National Commission on Social Policy no
later than December 31, 1989 (para 2.4);
(b)  establishment of the position of socio-economic advisor in
the office of the Minister of Planning and International
Cooperation (para 2.5);
(c)  recruitment of an advisor to assist the Division of Human
Resources and 'Jocial Policy in preparation and execution of
the program ov social policy studies (para 4.6);
(d)  appointment of a specialist experienced in the design and
operation of household surveys to advise the Chief of the
Division of Surveys and Price Indices (para 4.14);
(e)  establishment by September 1, 1989 of the Users' Committee
to advise on the permanent household survey (para 4.15);
(f)  establishment of the Pilot Project Management Unit (PPMU)
and its staffing, including an advisor with experience in
project planning (para 4.19);
(g)  criteria for selection of sub-projects to be financed under
the Pilot Program, and on the content of evaluation reports
(para 4.18 and Annex 4);
(h)  procedures for sub-project approval, including the
establishment and composition of an inter-ministerial
screening committee (paras. 4.20 and 4.21).
7.2       Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a)  appointment of the socio-economic advisor in the office of
the Minister of Planning and International Cooperation (para
2.5);
(b)  appointment of an experienced specialist in household
surveys to advise the Division of Surveys and Price Indices
(para 4.13);
(c)  establishment of PPMU and appointment of its manager and
advisor (para 4.19);
(d)  effectiveness of the AfDF and CIDA financing (para 5.5);
(e)  establishment of the Goveunment's local currency account,
and payment of US$50,000 equivalent into the account by the
Government (para 5.6)



31
7.3       Condition of Disbursement
Disbursement for equipment for the MPCI annex would be
conditional on start-up of construction of the annex.
7.4       Recommendation
On the terms and conditions propose, the Project is suitable for
financing with an IDA Credit of SDR 6.9 million (US$9.0 million
equivalent).



32
Annex 1: Page 1 of 2
Annex 1
Extract from 1988 Declaration of the Government
of Guinea's Development Policy
The Social Dimensions of Adjustment
1.        The Economic and Financial Reform Program, while allowing for an
acceleration in the real growth of GDP, will lead, in the medium and long
term, to an increase in employment, income and per capita consumption, and
finally to an improvement in the welfare of the people. The social
benefits of the program are already visible in rural areas and in the
increased activity of private enterprises, particularly those in the
informal sectoL. The Government is counting on the start-up of operations
by privatized public enterprises to sustain this improvement in welfare
over the long tenu.
2.        While awaiting the full benefits of growth and during the current
transition period, vulnerable groups may be affected by the adjustment.
Two direct social costs are unemployment and a drop in income as a result
of the cutbacks in the number of civil servants. The administrative reform
begun in 1986 will, as noted, lead to a restructuring and reduction in the
number of public employees, but also to an equitable wage policy that will
be an incentive for workers, and to a reclassification of employees
affected by the reform. Initially, the emphasis was on the quantitative
objectives, although the restructuring, equity and improvement of working
conditions (notably, remuneration and work conditions) were also important
considerations.
3.        The success of this sensitive operation and attainment of the
objectives require greater attention to the environment of employees and
the dissemination of information about alternatives. Otherwise, the civil
service could become rigid, a situation that would inhibit change and
jeopardize the broader economic reforms.
4.        The Government's PIP emphasizes labor-intensive projects
accompanied by training programs. It also contains a preferential credit
program for people who submit economically and financially viable
investment proposals and departure grants for employees leaving the civil
service. The Government will increase the assistance to former Government
employees who want to open small-and medium-scale businesses. Special
incentives could be created to direct them toward the agricultural sector
(particularly in the case of agricultural engineers).
5.        The need to assist civil servants who are laid off raises the
more general problem of employment for other groups (for example, young
unemployed graduates). Attention needs to be given to the development of
an integrated training and employment policy.



33
Annex 1: Page 2 of 2
6.        The working group studying the social dimensions of adjustment
has identified certain vulnerable or high-risk groups in need of protection
or specific support during this transitional adjustment period. The
Government is paying particular attention to these groups in designing the
Priority Action Program, which Includes projects aimed directly at
upgrading their living conditions and ensuring their full participation in
the economic recovery. An efficient means of reaching the underprivileged
people in both urban and rural areas is the decentralization of
administration, which will facilitate the delivery of health services,
education and training. water supply, infrastructure for small collectives
and the movement of agricultural output. Other national and international
non-governmental organizat ons could provide other human, material and
financial resources to assist these groups.
7.        A particular concern is the city of Conakry.  The lay-offs of
civil servants and public enterprise employees, the numbers of unemployed
graduates, a potential loss in purchasing power as a result of likely price
increases (rent, water, electricity, transportation, food products and
health services), a reduction in the stock of housing that will result from
certain infrastructure projects, and pressure on the food budget of low-
income groups and those without direct access to agricultural output could
seriously affect the capital, and careful attention needs to be paid to
this possibility.
8.        At the institutional level, the Government intends to reinforce
the administration's ability to draw up and implement the components of the
social policy. The Government envisions three series of actions, with the
assistance of the World Bank, the African Development Bank and the United
Nation Development Programme:
(i)     implementation of a permanent survey of households to
mcnitor changes in living conditions (jobs, incomes,
consumption, nutrition and access to social services) during
thp reform period;
(ii)     development of the administration's ability to perform the
socio-economic studies necessary to design the social
policy; and
(iii)     strengthening of the administration's ability to identify,
evaluate and monitor programs and projects in order to
foster the participation of the neediest in the country's
growth.



34
Annex 2: Page 1 of 2
Annex 2
Program of Social Policy Studies
1.        The program of social policy studies will take place over a
period of four years, and will integrate the two components of social
policy, that is:
(i)     the sectoral component;
(ii)     the macroeconomic component.
A.   The Sectoral Component
2.        The sectoral component is composed of studies which would
determine the social content of sectoral policies. In the future, data
from the permanent household surveys will be used to formulate social
policy for specific sectors. A series of Policy Papers will be prepared,
covering in particular the following areas:
(i)  a study on the social indicators to be monitored in the various
ministries in order to follow the living conditions of the
households;
(ii)  a refinement of the poverty profile based or. the result of the
Permanent Household Survey;
(iii)  nutrition and food security strategy;
(iv)  employment and labor policy;
(v)  promotion of the role of women in economic and social activity;
(vi)  an evaluation of the on-going program of compensatory measures
such as the voluntary departure scheme and the BARAF;
(vii)  design of an action program to support the creation of small
enterprises, and of serviced plots for such enterprises.
B.   The Macroeconomic Component
3.        The macroeconomic component includes the studies which will
specifically define and integrate social dimensions with macroeconomic
policies. Examples of such studies include:
(i)  a study concerning the establishment of a matching fund system
between the central and local governments, with the objective of
transferring to the latter, responsibility for investments in
certain types of infrastructure (e.g. water and sewerage,
maintenance of rural roads) and the provision of social services
(e.g. basic education, primary health care, nutrition);



35
Annex 2: Page 2 of 2
(ii)  a study to determine a core of public social services which will
provide a safety net for the most impoverished within the
population and which will determine a minimum level of public
investment and recurrent expenditures which would be necessary to
maintain those public services;
(iii)  a policy study on the promotion of labor-intensive alternatives
for projects financed by the Public Investment Program (PIP).
(iv)  studies of issues relevant to poverty alleviation such as the
relation between employment and poverty, education and income,
health and income, structure of welfare and poverty profile.



36                  Annex 3: Page 1 of 7
Annex 3
Permanent Household Survey
Plan of Operation
Introduction
1.        The permanent household survey will serve as an integral part of
the evaluation process in the framework of the Social Dimensions of
Adjustment (SDA) project in Guinea. It will. also function as an instrument
for the production of a continuous stream of data on the living standards
of Guinean households and will be a principal source of primary information
for the analysis of data.
2.        Survey results will contribute to the data base being developed
in the framework of the SDA project for the monitoring of development
programs in the participating countries of Sub-Saharan Africa.
1.  Basic Principles
3.        The following three basic principles are guidelines for the
initial processing of the permanent household survey:
(i) continuation and integration of surveys conducted previously t_
those scheduled in the future.  The survey of the budgets of
Conakry households is a typical example--this is expected to be
extended in other cities of the country. Another example is the
survey planned on the status of maternal and child care;
(ii) com2bination of the findings of certain surveys now under way:
nomenclature of the products and activities resulting from the
survey on the informal sector and a reconstitution of the
sampling base used for the agricultural census;
(iii) decentralization of the survey by setting up district offices
with locally hired contract staff to carry out the survey.
II. Organization of the Survey
4.        The survey will be conducted by the Division of Surveys and Price
Indices within the Direction GUndrale de la Statistique et de
l'Informatique of the MPCI. Six regional offices will operate in other
parts of the country.
A.   The Conakry Central Unit
5.        The Central Unit in Conakry will have a permanent survey team
responsible for carrying out the permanent household survey. The survey
team will operate under the guidance of the Director of the DEM.



37                     Annex 3: Page 2 of 7
6.        The permanent survey team will consist of:
- the Director of the DEIP
- a technical survey advisor
- a computer systems analyst
- a data processing specialist
- an administrative and financial assistant
- a secretary
7.        The Director, assisted by his technical advisor will be
responsible for the results of the technical survey. The systems analyst
will be responsible for data processing.
8.        A Central Unit in Conakry will consist of two survey teams
responsible for collecting information on Conakry households. A field
operations supervisor will be assigned to oversee and coordinate their
activities as well as those in Boke, Kindia, and Labe.
9.        The equipment of the Central Unit will consist of:
-     three vehicles - two for the teams, and one for the technical
advisor
-     4 microcomputers:  one IBM PS/2 model 80; three computers type
AT, and one voltage regulator
-     2 printers
-     1 generator
-     motor scooters for the survey teams in Conakry
B.   The Regional Offices
10.       There will be six regional offices, in Boke, Faranah, Kankan,
Kindia, Labe, and N'Zerekore. Each office will have a survey team. In
addition, a field operations supervisor will be assigned to the Kankan
office, and will be responsible for the overall coordination of the work of
the Kankan, Faranah and N'Z6r6kor6 teams.
11.       Suitable offices for the survey teams have been identified by the
regional authorities of Boke, Labe, Kankan, and N'Zerekore. Because of
time constraints, the mission was unable to visit Faranah and Kindia.
Agreements have been reached with MPCI officials to make available similar
appropriate offices in these two regional towns.
12.       The regional offices will be responsible for collecting
information on the households and storing them on diskettes, which will
then be sent to Conakry for processing.



38                        Annex 3: Page 3 of 7
13.       The equipment of these regional offices will consist of:
-    7 vehicles--6 for the teams, 1 for the Kankan supervisor
-    10 microcomputers
-    10 printers
-    6 generators
C.   The Survey Team
14.       Each survey team will consist of:
- 1 supervisor
- 2 enumerators
- 1 anthropometrist (to be provided by Ministry of Health)
- 1 data entry operator
- 1 driver
- 1 watchman for the regional office
15.       The supervisor will be responsible for the work of the survey
team. A vehicle and a microcomputer will be assigned to each team.
16.       The vehicle will be used to transport the driver, the supervisor,
the two data technicians, and the anthropometrist. With the vehicle, the
staff will visit areas already agreed upon, four to five days per week, to
gather data on households. At the end of the week, the staff will submit
the completed questionnaires to the office.
17.       The data entry operator will remain in the office, and will use
the computer to enter the questionnaires into diskettes. The diskettes
will be sent to Conakry at regular intervals for processing, either by
airplane or by car, depending on the distance.
18.       Office supplies for the survey (pencils, paper, scales,
yardsticks) and for data processing (computer paper, diskettes) will be
provided for the team. Fuel will also be provided for the vehicle and the
electrical generators.
III. Methodological Aspects
19.       Certain methodological features may be described at this point
for the permanent survey. They are concerned with the formation of the
sampling base, drawing of the sample, drafting of the questionnaires,
hiring of the survey staff, and the analysis categories.   All aspects will
be developed slowly over time in order that the ideal objective be
accomplished in four years.
A.   Establishment of the Sampling Base
20.       Unfortunately, the 1983 census is not a reliable basis for the
survey. Most of its figures are questionable. The official population
count for Guinea is 5.7 million, but it was obtained through rectification
of the census cards that posted a total of 4.6 million. In addition, the



39
Annex 3: Page 4 of 7
justification for the coefficients used to obtain the present figure is not
uniformly accepted, nor is it explained anywhere.
21.       However, air flights over the territory tend to confirm that
there were some gaps in the census coverage, resulting from the scattered
pattern of housing in certain areas and difficult access to certain
villages. A specified amount of cartographic work should, therefore, be
scheduled to reestablish the basis for sampling. The lists of villages in
the census, the operative accuracy of the geographic division, and the
borders of the urban districts, all have to be rechecked. Existing aerial
photos will be useful for this purpose. They are still valid for the rural
areas but the borders of urban areolar zones must be redefined, given the
recent growth of certain cities (such as Kapkan). A survey should be
conducted to determine whether more recent aerial coverage exists
(particularly any flights conducted by the national meteorological
service). Then, one or two photo interpreters should be recruited
temporarily to draw the urban grids with help from urban development
service officials.
B.   Drawing of the Sample
22.       A random sample of some 3,200 households could be accomplished by
using eight teams, with each team covering 400 households--two per day per
data technician, five days of the week. The survey would require two
visits to the same household at intervals of fifteen days.
23.       The teams would work for 40 weeks.  Four weeks would be reserved
for leave, and another four for refresher courses. Should the teams be put
on a 44-week schedule, the sample may be increased by 160 households. If
it is found desirable to increase the representation of certain groups,
this option may be considered.
24.       For practical purposes, about 80 primary sampling units in urban
ares may be used (areolar zones and districts as primary sampling units)
consisting of clusters of ten households; and approximately 120 primary
sampling units (villages) in rural areas, consisting of clusters of 20
households. This would reflect the distribution of the population, which
amounts to about 700 thousand inhabitants in Conakry and 200 thousand in
the large cities. The urban population accounts for one-fifth of the
total. The number of villages could always be increased, but that might
complicate the distribution of households in space and time. Half of the
sample of households will be renewed each year. Renewal of the primary
sampling units could eventually be scheduled.
C.   Preparation of the Questionnaires
25.       The questionnaires will be set up to record information on
numerous aspects of household economic life. Preparation of the
questionnaires will take into account the specific data needed in the
future by members of the Users' Committee. The questionnaires will be
drafted in French. But a glossary of key concepts will be prepared in the
local tongues to ensure that the correct translation is used by the survey



40                      Annex 3: Page 5 of 7
teams. The questionnaires will be tested in the diffezent regional
offices.
D.   Recruitment of Staff
26.       Survey personnel--supervisors, data technicians and data entry
operators--will be hired on contract locally for each regional office.
This will ensure that the survey teams include a representative selection
of languages. The support of the local authorities will be enlisted for
recruitment.
27.       Recruitment requires the design of tests to determine data
collecting aptitude: resistance to fatigue and monotony; the ability to
understand and carry out instructions; and familiarity with the area. The
applicants with the highest scores will be hired to conduct the survey.
28.       Controllers will be chosen from among the best survey agents.
The data entry operators will be selected from the pollers who show the
greatest aptitude for feeding data into the computer. Staff training of
survey personnel will be centralized in Conakry to make sure that the same
training is given to everyone. The supervisors will be chosen separately
from a short-list of candidates who display marked aptitude for such
responsibilities.
E.   The Analysis Categories
29.       Determining the analysis categories will be based on the
following geographic criteria:
-    urban area and rural area
-    in the urban area: Conakry and the other cities
-    in the rural area: maritime (lower) Guinea; middle Guinea, upper
Guinea, and the forested Guinea highlands.
30.       In order to determine the analysis categories, these criteria may
be put together with a variable representing the standard of living and the
income brackets.
IV. Planning of the Survey
31.       The project is scheduled to start in July 1989 and will last for
four years. The permanent survey will take about eight months to prepare
(February 1990 through September 1990). The permanent survey could thus be
scheduled for the field by October 1990.
32.       The preparatory tasks include ten major overlapping phases, which
should be carried out between July 1989 and February 1990. They consist of
the following:
Identification of specific information needs (two weeks);
Structuring of data to be collected (four weeks);



41
Annex 3: Page 6 of 7
Preparation of work schedules (six weeks);
Sample design: sampling strategy (two weeks); cartographic work (eight
weeks); census of primary units (six weeks);
Research and analysis of available statistical information (four
weeks);
Staff recruitment and training: selection and tests (four weeks);
primary units census (one week);
Questionnaire design, testing, and adaptation (ten weeks); translation
(four weeks); printing (twelve weeks);
Data entry, dictionary of variables, specification and consistency
controls (seven weeks, not including updating software programs);
Project institutionalization and publicity (twelve weeks);
Central Unit and Regional Offices implantation (ten weeks).
The preparatory phases will receive support from missions of short-term
consultants in the areas of sampling, cartography, staff recruitment, and
data processing.
V. The Detailed Cost
33. The detailed cost reflects the various aspects of the institutional
organization of the survey: existence of offices, type of staff, equipment,
etc. Certain items should nevertheless be clarified.
(i) The wages of the contractual survey staff have been estimated on
the basis of current private sector wage scales. Only the
Director of the DEIP and his assistant would be civil servants;
(ii) The purpose of the consulting missions will be threefold:
preparations for the survey (sampling plan, data processing,
etc.); practical training in data analysis and drafting
socioeconomic studies; and evaluation of projects designed to
produce an impact on the needy population sectors;
(iii) Staff training includes: refresher courses for data technicians
and data entry operators; training of supervisors in data
analysis theory; the organization of national and regional
seminars to publicize the methods and results; and study visits
abroad;
(iv) The buildings to be used for the regional offices and the central
unit in Conakry will be refurbished before the offices are
occupied so as to provide the air conditioning equipment required
for the computer rooms and install the electrical generators;



42                        Annex 3: Page 7 of 7
(v) A provision has been made for the purchase of comprehensive
insurance for the vehicles, as well as maintenance expenses for
vehicles, electrical generators, and computers.



43
Annex 4: Page 1 of 1
Annex 4
Outline of Sub-project Appraisal Reports
SUBJECTS TO BE COVERED BY PEMU IN EVALUATION REPORTS
ON INDIVIDUAL SUB-PROJECTS TO BE FINANCED BY THE
PILOT PROGRAM OF SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Target group
Location
Description of activities
Duration
Consistency with sectoral strategy
Project organization
Experience of managing agency
Involvement of local population
Staffing - provision for training
Equipment
Cost (include work sheet showing assumptions and build-up of cost
estimates)
Financing (all sources, including in-kind contributions)
Cost recovery
Procurement and disbursement arrangements
Reporting arrangements
Benefits (including economic rate of return, if applicable)
Risks
Follow-up (supervision) plan



Annex 5:  Page 1 of 1
Annex 5
SOCIAL c--VELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
BASE COST ESTIMATES
(US t: thousand)
ITEM                                       1989      1990    1991      1992      1993    LOCAL  FOREICN   TOTAL
I. Project Coordination
- LTC Remuneration                                   12.0     24.0      24.0     24.0      12.0     96.0       0 0     96.0
- Subsistence and Lodging                            16.8      33.6     33.6     33.6      16.8    134.4       0.0    134.4
- International Travel                                6.0       6.0      6.0       6.0      0.0      0.0      24.0     24.0
- STC Remuneration                                    0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
- Subsistence and Lodging                             0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
- International Travel                                0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
- Other International & National Travel               0.6       1.2      1.2       1.2      0.6      4.8       0.0      4.8
- Vehicles                                           42.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      42.0     42.0
- Vehicles Operations and Maintenance                 2.1       4.0      4.0      4.0       2.3      2.2      14.2     16.4
- Fuel                                                3.5       7.0      7.0      7.0       3.5      0.0      28.0     28.0
- Computers and Servicing                             5.0       0.3      0.5      0.5       0.3      0.0       6.6      6.6
- Equipment and Servicing                            20.5       3.3      3.6      3.6       1.8      0.0      32.8     32.8
- Furniture                                           2.9       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       2.9      2.9
- Telecommunications                                  0.6       1.2      1.2       r.2      0.6      4.8       0.0      4.8
- Local Salaries and other Operating Costs            5.8      11.6     11.6      11.6      5.8     41.6       4.8     46.4
- Annual Audit                                        0.0       0.0     20.0      20.0     20.0      0.0      60.0     60.0
II. Div. Res. Hum. & Politiquo Social.
- LTC Remuneration                                    0.0    117.6      58.8      0.0       0.0      0.0    176.4    176.4
- Subsistence and Lodging                             0.0     33.6      16.8      0.0       0.0     50.4       0.0     50.4
- International Travel                                0.0       6.0      S.O      0.0       0.0      0.0      12.0     12.0
- STC Remuneration                                  142.0      98.0     98.0     68.0      36.0     32.0    410.0    442.0
Subsistence and Lodging                           42.0      27.0     27.0      18.0      9.0    123.0       0.0    123.0
- Other International  and National Travel           15.4       9.0      9.0      6.0       3.0      0.0      42.4     42.4
- Vehicles                                            8.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       8.0      8.0
- Vehicles Operations and Maintenance                 0.5       0.9      0.9       0.9      0.7      0.5       3.5      3.9
fuel                                               1.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      1.0      0.0       8.0      8.0
- Computers and Servicing                             5.0       0.3      0.5      0.5       0.3      0.0       6.6      6.6
- Equipment and Servicing                            10.8       1.8      1.8       1.8      0.9      0.0      17.1     17.1
- Furniture                                           4.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0 0      0.0       4.0      4.0
- Telecommunications                                  0.6       1.2      1.2       1.2      0.6      4.8       0.0      4.8
- Local Salaries and other Ooorating Costs           20.4     30.2      30.6     31.4       8.4     96.3      39.2    135.4
III. Permanent Househ,ld Survey
- LTC Remuneration                                   30.0      60.0     60.0     30.0       0.0      0.0    180.0    180.0
- Subsistenee and Lodging                            16.8      33.6     33.6      16.8      0.0    100.8       0.0    100.8
- International Travel                                3.0       6.0      6.0       3.0      0.0      0.0      18.0      18.0
- STC Remuneration                                   18.0      40.0     40.0     40.0      22.0     32.0    128.0    160.0
- Subsistence and Lodging                             6.0      12.0     12.0      12.0      6.0     48.C       0.0     48.0
- International Travel                                6.0      12.0     12.0      12.0      6.0      0.0      48.0     48.0
- Other International & National Travel               9.4      10.8     10.8      10.8      1.4     11.2      32.0     43.2
- Vehicles                                          131.4       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    131.4    131.4
- Vehicles Operations and Maintenance                15.7     31.3      31.3     31.3      15.9     23.9    101.7    125.5
- Fuel                                               14.5     29.0      29.0     29.0      14.5      0.0    116.0    116.0
- Computers and Servicing                           141.8       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    141.8    141.8
- Equipment and Servicing                            10.8       1.8      1.8       1.8      0.9      0.0      17.1     17.1
- Furniture                                          55.2       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      55.2     55.2
- Telecommunications                                 10.2       5.0      5.0      5.0       2.5     12.0      15.7     27.7
- Local Salaries and other Operating Costs          582.0    290.1    290.4    290.7    142.2  1039.3    556.1   1595.4
IV. Pilot Program of Socio-Economic Development
- LTC Remuneration                                   58.8    117.6    117.6    117.6       58.8      0.0    470.4    470.4
- Subsistence and Lodging                            16.8      33.6     33.6     33.6      16.8    134.4       0.0    134.4
- International Travel                                6.C       6.0      6.0       6.0      0.0      0.0      24.0     24.0
- STC Remuneration                                    0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
- Subsistence and Lodging                             0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
- Other International & National Travel               3.6       4.2      4.2       1.2      0.6     13.8       0.0     13.8
- Vehicles                                            8.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       8.0      8.0
- Vehicles Operations and Maintenance                 0.5       0.9      0.9      0.9       0.7      0.5       3.5      3.9
- Fuel                                                1.0       2.0      2.0      2.0       1.0      0.0       8.0      8.0
- Computers and Servicing                             5.0       0.3      0.5      0.5       0.3      0.0       6.6      6.6
- Equipment and Seorvicing                           10.8       1.8      1.8       1.8      0.9      0.0      17.1     17.1
- Furniture                                           40        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       4.0      4.0
- Telecommunicstions                                  0.9       1.8      1.8       1.8      0.9      7.2       0.0      7.2
- Local Salaries and other Operating Costs            5.3      10.4     11.1      11.8      6.4     40.2       4.8     45.0
TOTAL BASE PROJECT COST                            1541.6   1132.9   1079.8    905.1    424.3   2053.9   3029.9   5083.8
TOTAL CONTINCENCIES                                 183.2    218.5    285.3    329.f;   181.7    763.0    436.0   1198.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST INCLUDING CONT.                 1724.8   1351.4   1365.1   1234.7    606.0  2816.8   3465.8   6282.6
PILOT PROGRAM                                       600.0   1200.0   1800.0   1800.0   1800.0   3600.0   3600.0   7200.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                 2324.8   2551.4   3165.1   3034.7   2406.0   6416.8   7065.8  13482.6
TOTAL TAX ON EvQUIPMENT A PFJEL (pour memoire)     (110.0)   (30.0)   (30.0)   (30.0)   (18.0) (218.00)    0.00  (218.00)



45                    Annex 5:  Page 1 of 1
Annex 6
Project Financing
(US$ thousands)
CATEGORY                        GOVT      IDA    AfDF    CIDA    NGOs    TOTAL
Long-Term Consultants            ---      361    1023      386      ---     1770
Short-Term Consultants           ---      170      666     ---      ---      836
Computing and Other Equipment ---         472      ---     103      ---      575
(including service)
Vehicles                         ---       64      ---     145      ---      209
Fuel and Lubricants              116       77      ---     ---      ---      193
Furniture                        ---       35      ---      38      ---       73
Incremental Operating            460     1821      177     168      ---     2626
Costs
Pilot Program Sub-projects    ---        6000      ---     ---    1200      7200
576     9000    1866      840    1200  13,482



46
Annex 7: Page 1 of 6
Annex 7
Terms of Reference of Long-term Advisors
Consultants:  Socio-Economic Advisor
Household Survey Advisor
Social Policy Planning Advisor
Management Advisor for Pilot Program of Socio-Economic
Development



47
Annex 7: Page 2 of 6
SOCIO-ECONOMIC ADVISOR
Duration: 2 yrs., renewable
Profile:
A high level manager with a strong background in administration, management
and socio-economics, and extensive experience in Africa, particularly in
Guinea. He/She needs to be willing to travel and work in different rural
zones. He/She must be proficient in French and have a good command of
English. The successful candidate would preferably be a Guinean national,
recruited abroad if necessary.
Object of the Mission:
The Socio-Economic Advisor will be placed directly under the authority of
the Minister of Plan, at the level of the present Economic Advisor. The
responsibilities of the consultant will be to;
-  advise the Minister on all socio-economic questions, especially those
which are associated with the social consequences of development
policies such as structural adjustment;
-  make concrete proposals concerning measures to be taken to improve the
living conditions of the vulnerable groups of the population;
-  coordinate the activities of the different components of the Socio-
Economic Development Support Project and ensure good management of the
project;
-  ensure that there is effective interfacing between the project, the
Guinean administration and the donor agencies.
Functions of the Consultant:
-  Advise the Minister by preparing succinct reports about the socio-
economic situation in the country and the status of the Projects'
development;
-  serve as Secretary of the National Commission on Social Policy;
-  serve as chair of the official-level sub-committee of the Commission;
- serve as chair of the Pilot Program screening committee;
-  accelerate the legal and administrative procedures with the Government
and the donors related to the implementation and execution of the
Project.
Having responsibility for the Project will include:
- ensuring daily supervision;



48
Annex 7: Page 3 of 6
- ensuring the appropriate management of the Project equipment and
materials;
- participating in all the meetings organized within the framework of the
project;
- assuring good distribution of all the information relating to the
project, e.g. aide-memoires, verbal information and minutes of the
meetings.
- approving all expenditures incurred by the project;
- guaranteeing proper accounting procedures for the project;
- hiring and ensuring the training of all local personnel.



49
Annex 7: Page 4 of 6
HOUSEHOLD SURVEY ADVISOR
Duration: 2 yrs, renewable.
Profile:
The consultant needs to have a strong background in statistics and
economics and computer science, and approximately 10 years experience with
household surveys, preferably in Africa. He/She needs to be willing to
travel and work in various rural areas. He/She must be proficient in
French and have a good command of English.
Objective:
The consultant w.11 be the advisor to the Director of the Survey and Price
Indices Division on the organization and operation of the permanent
household survey organizational issues and on the monitoring of all the
activities of the division.
Functions of the Consultant:
The consultant will assist the Director of the Survey and Price Indices
Division with conception, start up and implementation of the permanent
household survey, which will facilitate the monitoring of the evolution of
the household living conditions in Conakry and in six regions in the
interior of the country. In order to achieve that goal the consultant
will:
- ensure the training of personnel at all levels in the unit and country
teams;
-  make concrete proposals to recruit short term specialists to deal with
special problems that may arise from time to time;
- advise the Director on the collection and analysis of data and the
quality of socio-economic survey reports;
- participate in the analysis of the results;
- participate in the recruitment of personnel for the central unit and
the regional survey teams;



50
Annex 7: Page 5 of 6
SOCIAL POLICY PLANNING ADVISOR
Duration: 12 months, followed by short term missions
Profile:
The advisor must have a strong background in economics and at least 10
years professional experience in Africa, including experience addressing
the social problems associated with the development policies. He/She will
need to be able to travel and work in various rural areas. He/She needs to
be proficient in French and have a good command of English.
Objective of the Mission:
Advise the Director of the Human Resource and Social Policy Division on the
coordination of Social Policy and the monitoring of the social consequences
of government macro-economic and sectoral policies. In collaboration with
the technical departments concerned, organize the collection of information
and the socio-economic studies disseminated in Guinea and elsewhere in
order to establish a documentation center which will provide wide access
to the data. Develop a permanent strategy to allow those segments of the
population with low incomes to benefit from the fruits of economic and
social development.
Functions of the consultant:
- Advise the Director of the Human Resource and Social Policy Division;
- contribute to the elaboration of a study program which permits the
clear definition of the socio-economic problems facing vulnerable
groups and the principal obstacles to their access to basic services
(education, health, water, etc.) and the development of employment and
income generating projects.
- assist in the execution of such study programs, which include the
development of terms of reference for each study, their monitoring, and
analysis of their conclusions;
- advise the Division in the choice of experts participate in the
implementation of the studies;
- participate in the defining of elements of the social strategy which
could be integrated in the development program;
- participate in the training of researchers who can assist in making the
studies, programs and essentially lead such studies;
- advise on the collection and effective management of data in the socio-
economic documentation center;



51
Annex 7: Page 6 of 6
ADVISOR TO THE PILOT PROGRAM OF SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Duration: 2 years, renewable.
Profile:
The consultant must have a strong background in economics, finance and
project management. He/She must also have experience in project analysis,
monitoring and evaluation and experience with project financing. He/She
must have at least 5 years of professional experience in Africa.
Preference would be given to experience working with non-governmental
organizations. He/She must be willing to travel and work in various rural
zones. He/She must be proficient in French and have a good command of
English.
Functions of the Consultant:
- Advise the director of the Pilot Program Management Unit;
- participate in the evaluation of sub-projects presented for financing
to the Program in accordance with the criteria which were pre-
established by the Government and the donors;
- advise the director of the Unit on the administration of the finar.cing
provided for sub-projects, and on the monitoring of the execution of
those sub-projects;
- participate in the analysis of progress reports of projects financed by
the Program;
- participate in the meetings of the screening committee of the Program;
- assist with the elaboration of evaluation methods;
- assist with the development of a supervision program;
- advise on the recruitment and ensure effective training of personnel
within the unit;



52
Annex 8: Page 1 of 1
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File
1. United Nations Development Programme: Evaluation of the Social
Dimensions of Structural Adjustment in Sub-Saharan Africa. Republic of
Guinea National Project Document, March 1988.
2. Government of Guinea, "Report of Task Force on Social Policy", Conakry,
April 1988 (in French).
3. Secretariat d'Etat A la Decentralisation, "Les ONG en Guinee Face au
Redressement Economique National", Conakry, June 1988 (in French).
4. Ministere de l'Industrie et du Commerce, "Etude sur le secteur informel
en Guinee, 1987 (in French).
5. Government of Guinea, BARAF, Data on Status of BARAF Scheme as of
October, 1988.
6. Plan and cost estimates for new MPCI annex.
7. Worksheets of project cost estimates.



53
Annex 9: Page 1 of 1
ANNEX 9
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHODS
(US $ thousands)
(amounts in parentheses would be financed by IDA)
ICB      LCB       OTHER    NOT APPLICABLE    TOTAL
Nature of Costs
Long-Term Consultants                        1,720                          1,720
(311)                         (311)
Short-Term Consultants                         836                            836
(170)                         (170)
Equipment, Furniture   378 a]   510 b]         354 c] d]                     1242
and Vehicles        (137)    (495)         (192)                          (824)
Incremental Operating                        2,334                         2,334
Costs                                    (1,545)                       (1,545)
PPF Refinancing                                             150               150
(150)            (150)
Pilot Program                                             7,200             7,200
(6,000)          (6,000)
378     510        5,244        7,350           13,482
(137)   (495)      (2,218)      (6,150)          (9,000)
a] Vehicles and Computing Equipment
b] Furniture and Other Office Equipment
c] Vehicle Operating Costs (incl. fuel)
d] Following Government Procurement Procedures



IBRD 2136S
MAURITANIA                                                                                                                     10
S E N E G A L
SSENEGAL 8   ~M A LI  .,             -. -           ^ ;zM    A                                                                                                              L   I
/jBURKINA                                                                                                                                   M    Ao
(0'           ''.f                                                                                                                                                                                   10' 
-Join Fortst < _ .                                                                                                                                              , -
ARIT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
SOCIO-ECONMIC DEVELOMENT                  A             ITerAtoa DAirOrt
8  |           Savannah to Bush Savannah                      :KILOMSTtRS ,  2,0  4,0  6,0  80  100J2                                                                :    .:     .     ,'              a-
E t-Bush to Tree Savonnah                           '                       IE          o      4        0        'ta         
>*  outaDjalon (hilly, lightly frested,upland plateau)   '\<<x!LIBERIA                                                                           j                2 
'-'.;.',. Light Foret to ree Savannah                         2i .?JJb    
-       Mangrove Swamps                                                                   te es as nese reehsre bon petaf wan ThlSaddnte wa eaewve oar eha  Ceeewoobe no ,l. 
| Light Forest with Swamnpy Aroas                                                                           Z<S:ZZZZ~                    >O~t%,.                          ^=wl (    
JANUARY 1981



