Page  1
                                                  CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1995 GUI
           (Socio-Economic Development Support Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated April 19, 1989
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1995 GUI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  April  19,  1989,  between  the REPUBLIC OF
GUINEA   (the   Borrower)   and   the   INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the  Borrower  intends   to   obtain  from  the  African
Development Fund (AfDF)  a  grant  under  the Technical Assistance
Fund  (the  AfDF/TAF  Grant)  in  an  amount  equivalent  to about
$1,850,000 to assist in  financing  the  Project  on the terms and
conditions  set  forth  in   an   agreement  (the  AfDF/TAF  Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and AfDF;
     (C)  the  Borrower  intends  to   obtain  from  the  Canadian
Page  2
International Development Agency (CIDA)  a  grant (the CIDA Grant)
in an amount equivalent  to  $840,000  to  assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
CIDA Grant Agreement) to be  entered into between the Borrower and
CIDA;
     (D)  the Association has received a letter from the Borrower,
dated  June  4,  1988  (the  Declaration  of  Development Policy),
describing a program of  objectives, policies and actions designed
to achieve structural  adjustment  of  the Borrower's economy (the
Structural Adjustment  Program),  including  measures dealing with
the  social  dimensions  of   such  adjustment,  as  described  in
paragraphs 100 to 107 of said Declaration; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the  following  additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Fiscal Year"  means  the  Borrower's  fiscal year which
coincides with the calendar year;
     (b)  "Guinean Franc"  and  "GNF"  mean  the  currency  of the
Borrower;
     (c)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by  the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters, dated January 24, 1989, and February 3,
1989, between the Borrower and the Association;
     (d)  "Public  Agencies"   includes  ministerial  departments,
local governments and other entities organized under public law;
     (e)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (f)  "Sub-project"  means  any  sub-project  approved  in the
context of the  Pilot  Program  and  financed  under the Credit in
accordance with the  criteria  set  forth  in  Schedule  4 to this
Agreement;
     (g)  "Pilot  Program"  means  the  Pilot  Program  of  socio-
economic  development  sub-projects  referred  to  in  Part  C  of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
     (h)  "Subsidiary Financing Agreement"  means the agreement to
be entered into between the  Borrower  and  a NGO or Public Agency
for the financing of  a  Sub-project,  pursuant to Section 3.04 of
this Agreement,  as  such  Subsidiary  Financing  Agreement may be
amended from time to time;
     (i)  "DNIP"   means    MPCI's    Direction    Nationale   des
Investissements Publics;
     (j)  "DNSI"   means   MPCI's   Direction   Nationale   de  la
Statistique et de l'Informatique;
Page  3
     (k)  "DRHPS" means Division des  Ressources Humaines et de la
Politique Sociale within MPCI's Direction  Nationale du Plan et du
Developpement Economique;
     (l)  "MPCI" means  Ministere  du  Plan  et  de la Cooperation
Internationale, the Borrower's  Ministry responsible for Planning,
operating pursuant to decree  No.  199/PRG/SGG/88 of September 23,
1988;
     (m)  "NGO" means any  non-governmental  organization having a
juridical personality and authorized  to  carry out its operations
in the Borrower's territory;
     (n)  "PPMU" means the Pilot  Program Management Unit referred
to in Section 3.03 and in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
     (o)  "SED" means  Secretariat  d'Etat  a la Decentralisation,
operating pursuant to Decree  No.  189/PRG/SGG/88 of September 19,
1988.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to six  million  nine  hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 6,900,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a bank, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special  Account  shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994, or
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal  amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a  rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of the next payment date specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  4
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15,
commencing September 15,  1999,  and  ending  March 15, 2029. Each
installment to and including the  installment payable on March 15,
2009, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and, after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under para-
graph (a) above  by  requiring  the  Borrower  to  repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding  from  time  to  time, provided that, in
the judgment of the  Association,  such  revision shall not change
the grant  element  obtained  under  the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project through
MPCI with due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in conformity with
appropriate  administrative  and  financial  practices,  and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
Page  5
          (i)  establish  and  maintain  in  a  bank  a  revolving
               account in GNF  for  the  exclusive  purpose of the
               Project; and
         (ii)  after an initial  deposit  therein  as described in
               Section 6.01 (d) of  this Agreement, replenish said
               account as and  when  required  to  ensure that the
               amount available  in  such  account  shall never be
               less than one-third of said initial deposit.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section  3.03.  The   Borrower   shall:   (a)  establish  and
thereafter maintain  PPMU  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Part D of Schedule 4  to  this  Agreement;  and (b) not later than
December 31, 1989,  establish  and  thereafter  maintain the Pilot
Program Screening Committee in  accordance  with the provisions of
Part E of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower  shall:  (a)  make the proceeds of
the Credit allocated to  Category  (1)  of  the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1  to  this Agreement available to NGOs or
Public  Agencies  under  Subsidiary  Financing  Agreements, satis-
factory to  the  Association,  for  financing  of  Sub-projects in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  4 to this Agreement;
and  (b)  exercise  its  rights  under  all  Subsidiary  Financing
Agreements in such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests of the
Borrower and the Association,  and  to  accomplish the purposes of
the Credit and, except  as  the Association shall otherwise agree,
the  Borrower  shall  not  change,  assign,  amend  or  waive  any
Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the permanent
household survey and the other studies, undertaken for the purpose
of formulating the social policies  referred  to under Part B.1 of
the Project,  and  promptly  submit  to  the  Association, for its
review, the results of said  survey  and studies; and (b) promptly
thereafter, use such results in  the formulation of the Borrower's
social policies and socio-economic development programs.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1989, establish and thereafter maintain the National Commission on
Social Policy, which  shall  be  responsible  for coordinating the
development and implementation of the Borrower's social policies.
     Section 3.07. (a) For the purposes  of Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall, not  later  than  September 1, 1989, establish
and thereafter maintain  a  technical  committee  of  users of the
permanent household survey.
     (b)  Said committee shall report to  the chief of the Surveys
and Price Indices Division of  DNSI and include representatives of
the main departments  concerned  by  said  survey; it shall, inter
alia, ensure the active  participation  of all such departments in
the execution of the survey  and  the dissemination and use of its
results.
     Section 3.08. (a) The  Borrower shall employ a socio-economic
adviser reporting directly to the Minister in charge of Planning.
     (b)  Said  adviser  shall  be:   (i)  the  Secretary  of  the
Commission referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement; (ii) the
chairman of the Pilot  Program  Screening Committee; and (iii) the
Project coordinator.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
Page  6
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices,  the  operations, resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Account, for  each  fiscal year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures, with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Any of  the  instruments  governing  PPMU, the Committee
referred  to  in  Section  3.03  (b)  of  this  Agreement  or  the
Commission referred to in  Section  3.06  of this Agreement, shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated,  repealed or waived so as
to affect,  in  the  opinion  of  the  Association, materially and
adversely the  ability  of  the  Borrower  to  perform  any of its
obligations under this Agreement.
Page  7
     (b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of  any  grant  or  loan  made to the
                    Borrower  for  the  financing  of  the Project
                    shall  have   been   suspended,  cancelled  or
                    terminated in whole  or  in  part, pursuant to
                    the terms of the agreement providing therefor;
                    or
               (B)  any  such  loan  shall  have  become  due  and
                    payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes, to the satisfaction of
               the Association, that:
               (A)  such suspension,  cancellation, termination or
                    prematuring is not  caused  by  failure of the
                    Borrower to  perform  any  of  its obligations
                    under such agreement; and
               (B)  adequate funds for  the  Project are available
                    to the Borrower  from  other  sources on terms
                    and conditions consistent with the obligations
                    of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and
     (b)  any event  specified  in  subparagraph  (b)  (i)  (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of subparagraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional  conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  PPMU has  been  established,  and  its  manager has been
appointed;
     (b)  the socio-economic advisor  referred  to in Section 3.08
of this Agreement, the adviser to  the chief of DNSI's Surveys and
Price Indices Division, the  adviser  to  the manager of PPMU, all
with  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of
employment satisfactory to  the  Association,  have taken up their
positions;
     (c)  all conditions  precedent  to  the  effectiveness of the
AfDF/TAF Grant Agreement and  of  the CIDA Grant Agreement, except
for the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
     (d)  the account referred  to  in  Section  3.01  (b) of this
Agreement has been opened, and  the Borrower has deposited therein
an initial amount in GNF equivalent to $50,000.
     Section 6.02. The  date  one  hundred  and  twenty (120) days
after the date  of  this  Agreement  is  hereby  specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  the Borrower responsible for
Page  8
Planning is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation
            Internationale
          B.P. 707
          Conakry
          Republic of Guinea
                                              Telex:
                                                22311 MPCI-GE
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                          By /s/ Kekoura Camara
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Goods and                   4,530,000       100%
Page  9
     services
     for Sub-
     projects
(2)  Consultants'                  340,000       100%
     services
(3)  Equipment
     (including
     computers):
     (a)  for Parts A,              80,000       100%
          B and C.1 of
          the Project
     (b)  for Part D               230,000       100%
          of the
          Project
(4)  Vehicles                       40,000       100%
(5)  Fuel and                       50,000       40%
     lubricants
(6)  Operating                   1,140,000       80%
     costs
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(7)  Refunding of                  110,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(8)  Unallocated                   380,000
                                 _________
         TOTAL                   6,900,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs"
means expenditures in  respect  of  Project-related activities for
maintenance of vehicles  and  equipment,  office supplies, fees of
contract employees and subsistence  expenses for travel of Project
staff.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  payments  for  expenditures  to  be  financed  from  the
proceeds of  the  Credit  allocated  to  Category  1  for any Sub-
project,  unless  such  Sub-project   shall   have  been  made  in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and approved
by  the  Association  prior  to  the  signing  of  the  Subsidiary
Financing Agreement related thereto; and
     (c)  payments  for  expenditures  to  be  financed  from  the
proceeds of the Credit allocated  to  Category (3) (b), unless the
construction of the new  building  referred  to  in  Part D of the
Project has been started.
                            SCHEDULE 2
Page  10
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of  the  Project  are  to:  (a) strengthen the
Borrower's capability  to  monitor  the  living  standards  of the
population; (b) strengthen the  Borrower's capability to formulate
and  implement  social  policies  aimed  at  improving  the living
standards of the most  vulnerable  and  most destitute segments of
the population; and (c) finance  a pilot program of socio-economic
development sub-projects.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Living Standards Monitoring
     Strengthening of DNSI's  capacity  to  plan  and  carry out a
permanent  household  survey  to  track  the  evolution  of living
conditions of households, including establishment of a Surveys and
Price Indices Division and a permanent household data base.
Part B:   Social Policy Planning
1.   Strengthening of DRHPS's capacity to:
     (a)  develop and implement, in cooperation with the concerned
ministries, a study program on important social policy issues;
     (b)  integrate the results of  such studies, of the permanent
household survey and  of  the  Pilot  Program  into  the design of
social and structural adjustment policies and programs.
2.   Establishment of a  social  documentation section specialized
in the collection  and  processing  of documents concerning social
policy issues  within  the  Centre  National  de  Documentation et
d'Information pour le Developpement.
Part C:   Pilot Program of Socio-Economic Development Sub-projects
1.   Establishment of PPMU and development of its capacity to:
     (a)  identify, appraise and  monitor  the Sub-projects of the
Pilot Program; and
     (b)  assess,  in  cooperation  with  SED,  the implementation
capacity of  the  NGOs  or  other  agencies  submitting  such Sub-
projects for financing under the Project.
2.   Financing of Sub-projects through grants  or loans to NGOs or
Public Agencies in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Part D:   Infrastructure of MPCI
1.   Construction of  a  new  building  for  MPCI, intended, inter
alia, for DNSI.
2.   Acquisition of furniture and equipment for said building.
                             *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
Page  11
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  goods  shall be
grouped in  bid  packages  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$100,000 or more each.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods or works  estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000 may be  procured under contracts awarded on
the  basis  of   competitive   bidding,   advertised  locally,  in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Goods or works estimated to  cost less than the equivalent of
$25,000 per contract, up to an  aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of  price quotations solicited from a list
of at  least  three  reputable  suppliers  or contractors eligible
under the Guidelines, in  accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
3.   Goods and works for Part C.2 of the Project shall be procured
in accordance with the  provisions  of  Part  C.4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for  Parts A, B and C.1 of
the Project estimated to cost  the  equivalent of $25,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in  paragraphs  2  and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where  payments for such contracts are
to be made out of  the  Special  Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the  two  conformed copies of the contract
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out  of the Special Account in respect
of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contracts are to  be  made  out  of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract,  together  with  the  other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3, shall be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience and terms, and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such  consultants shall be selected in
accordance with  principles  and  procedures  satisfactory  to the
Page  12
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers  and  by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                  Operations of the Pilot Program
A.   Eligibility Criteria for  NGOs  or Public Agencies Sponsoring
     Sub-projects
     To qualify for financing under the Project, any NGO or Public
Agency wishing to submit  any  Sub-project proposal shall meet the
following conditions:
1.   have juridical personality and be legally authorized to carry
out the activities envisaged under the Sub-project;
2.   have the experience  and  qualifications,  and a demonstrated
capacity to mobilize  human  and  financial  resources required to
carry out the proposed Sub-project;  for national NGOs lacking the
required experience  and  qualifications, cooperation arrangements
with more experienced NGOs shall be taken into consideration; and
3.   submit its  financial  statements  for  its  last fiscal year
indicating the adequacy of its accounting and financial management
systems.
B.   Criteria for the Selection of Sub-projects
     To be eligible for  financing, any Sub-project proposal shall
be submitted by an NGO  or  Public Agency eligible pursuant to the
provisions of Section A  of  this  Schedule and meet the following
conditions:
1.   be  directed  primarily  to  the  following  segments  of the
population:
     (a)  households with  an  income  below  the  poverty line as
defined by the household surveys;
     (b)  households without access to basic services;
     (c)  population disadvantaged due to their isolation and lack
of basic infrastructure;
     (d)  women  and  children  of  the  poorest  segments  of the
population;
     (e)  people losing their jobs or  without jobs as a result of
the Borrower's administrative and economic reforms;
2.   show that it will improve  the standard of living, the access
to employment or the working  conditions of its beneficiaries in a
sustainable way;
3.   be consistent with the sectoral strategies of the Borrower;
4.   be feasible from a  practical  and operational point of view,
its costs to be justified by its expected benefits;
5.   a clear assessment of the recurrent costs of the Sub-project,
and how to cover them, to be provided;
6.   total  cost  of  the  sponsoring  NGO's  or  Public  Agency's
permanent staff to be financed by such NGO or Public Agency;
7.   include a description of the specific measures to be taken to
ensure the participation of  the beneficiaries in the development,
implementation and management of the Sub-project; and
8.   for Sub-projects implemented  by,  or  with the assistance of
Page  13
foreign NGOs, the latter  shall  train nationals in the management
of said Sub-project or similar projects.
C.   Terms and Conditions to be included in the Subsidiary
     Financing Agreements between the Borrower and sponsoring
     NGOs or Public Agencies
1.   The financial conditions specifying, inter alia, whether on a
grant or loan basis and, if applicable, the conditions under which
such grant or loan may be passed on to beneficiaries.
2.   Contribution of the NGO or  Public  Agency to the cost of the
Sub-project, including the costs referred  to  in Part B.6 of this
Schedule, to be spelled out in detail.
3.   The NGO or Public Agency shall carry out and operate the Sub-
project with due diligence and  efficiency, and in accordance with
sound technical,  financial  and  managerial  standards, and shall
maintain adequate records and accounts.
4.   (a)  Goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the grant or loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price, after,
in the case  of  contracts  estimated  to  cost  the equivalent of
$1,000 or more,  price  quotations  from  at  least three reliable
suppliers have been  furnished;  and  (b)  such goods and services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project.
5.   The Association's right to inspect, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Borrower, goods, sites, works and construc-
tion included in the  Sub-project,  the  operation thereof and any
relevant records and documents.
6.   Release of  all  such  information  as  the  Borrower  or the
Association shall reasonably request  relating to the Sub-project,
to the administration, operations  and  financial condition of the
NGO or Public Agency, and to  the  benefits to be derived from the
Sub-project.
7.   Disbursement schedule and  conditions  shall include specific
criteria to be met  prior  to  disbursement of each installment of
the loan or  grant;  such  criteria  to  include the submission of
progress reports and financial  statements  on the Sub-project and
compliance  with  the  provisions   of  the  Subsidiary  Financing
Agreement.
8.   The right of the Borrower to have the records and accounts of
the NGO or Public  Agency  audited  from  time to time by auditors
acceptable to the Association.  For Sub-projects estimated to cost
the equivalent of $250,000 or  more,  such audits shall be carried
out at least once a year.
9.   The right of the Borrower  to  suspend or terminate the right
of the NGO or Public  Agency  to  the  use  of the proceeds of the
grant or loan upon failure by such NGO or Public Agency to perform
any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
D.   Responsibilities of PPMU
1.   PPMU shall carry out the following tasks:
     -    Evaluation of Sub-projects proposals.
     -    Submission  of  Sub-project  evaluation  reports  to the
          Pilot Program Screening Committee.
     -    Preparation of  Subsidiary  Financing  Agreements  to be
          concluded between the  Borrower  and  the  NGO or Public
          Agency sponsoring an approved Sub-project.
     -    Submission to IDA for approval of the evaluation reports
          of Sub-projects selected by  the Screening Committee and
          of the related draft Subsidiary Financing Agreements.
Page  14
     -    Monitoring and supervision of implementation of selected
          Sub-projects.
     -    Preparation in  cooperation  with  DRHPS  and  SED of an
          annual report on  the  operations  of the Pilot Program,
          including detailed  financial  statements, evaluation of
          the progress  in  implementing  Sub-projects and lessons
          learned from Pilot Program operations.
2.   PPMU  shall  be  headed  by  a  manager  with  experience and
qualifications satisfactory to  the  Association, reporting to the
director of DNIP and assisted  by a project adviser and operations
officers.
E.   Screening Committee
1.   The Pilot Program  Screening  Committee  shall  be chaired by
MPCI's  socio-economic  adviser  and  comprise  representatives of
MPCI, SED and the ministries  in charge of finance, social affairs
and employment; depending on  the Sub-project being discussed, the
Committee shall also  include  a  representative  of the concerned
technical ministry.
2.   Said Committee shall be responsible for the selection of Sub-
projects to be financed,  in  accordance  with the eligibility and
selection  criteria,  and  for  the  submission  of  selected Sub-
projects to the Minister responsible for Planning for approval.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term  "Authorized  Allocation"  means  an  amount of
$100,000 to be  withdrawn  from  the  Credit Account and deposited
into the Special  Account  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit Account  and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
Page  15
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to  the  eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any
outstanding special  commitment  entered  into  by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such  procedures  as the Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule;  and  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may  request;  or  (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the  Association  shall  so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible  or justified. Unless the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, no  further deposit by the Association
into the Special  Account  shall  be  made  until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
Page  16
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account  for  subsequent   withdrawal   or   for  cancellation  in
accordance  with  the  relevant   provisions  of  this  Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
