CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 338 MOR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 10, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 338 MOR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 10, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 10, 1972 between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower and the Caisse Nationale de CrMdit Agricole,
an autonomous agency (etablissement publique autonome) of the Borrower
established under Dahir No. 1-60-106 of 25 foumadaI.1381 (December 4, 1961)
(hereinafter called CNCA), respectively, have requested the Association and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called the
Bank) to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement;
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and CNCA
(hereinafter called the Loan Agreement), the Bank has agreed to make a loan to
CNCA in an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-four million dollars
($24,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that the Borrower agree to guarantee the obligations of CNCA
in respect of such loan;
(C)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Bank (hereinafter called the Guarantee Agreement), the Borrower has agreed
so to guarantee the obligations of CNCA;
(D)  The Borrower is willing to make the proceeds of the Credit provided
for in this Agreement available to CNCA as a contribution to its capital (dotation)
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter;
(E)   CNCA will carry out the Project upon the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and CNCA (hereinafter called the Project Agreement);
and
(F)   The Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 2.01 (9) is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"9. The term 'Project' means the project or projects or program or
programs for which the Credit is granted, as described in the Development
Credit Agreement and as the description thereof shall be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower, the Association, the Bank and
CNCA."
(b)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(c)   Section 6.02 (b) is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"(b) The Borrower or CNCA shall have failed to perform any other
obligation under the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement, the Bonds
(as such terms are defined in the Development Credit Agreement), or the
Development Credit Agreement."
(d)   Section 6.02 (h) is deleted and Section 6.02 (i) becomes 6.02 (h);
(e)   Section 7.01 (c) is amended to read as follows:
"(c) A default shall occur in the performance of any other obligation
on the part of the Borrower or CNCA under the Loan Agreement, the
Guarantee Agreement, or the Bonds (as such terms are defined in the
Development Credit Agreement), or the Development Credit Agreement, or
under any other loan agreement between CNCA and the Bank or any
guarantee agreement between the Borrower and the Bank guaranteeing a loan
to CNCA, or under any bond issued pursuant to any such agreement, and
such default shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and CNCA, or the Association
to the Borrower, as the case may be."


﻿5
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and CNCA for the purpose of the Project, as such agreement
may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the General Conditions
Applicable  to  Loan   and   Guarantee  Agreements   of   the  Bank, dated
January 31, 1969, as made applicable to     such  agreement, all agreements
supplemental to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement.
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and CNCA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement.
(c)   "Guarantee Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank guaranteeing the obligations of CNCA to the
Bank under the Loan Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time.
(d)   "Loan" means the loan provided for in the Loan Agreement.
(e)   "Loan Account" means the account established pursuant to Section
2.02 of the Loan Agreement.
(f)   "dirhams" means the currency of the Borrower.
(g)   "Sub-loan" means a medium- or long-term credit made or proposed
to be made by CNCA to a Beneficiary in accordance with the procedures and
the lending and operating policies set forth in the Schedule to the Project Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan.
(h)   "Beneficiary" means any individual farmer, group    of farmers,
cooperative, contractor, agricultural enterprise, or other person or group eligible
to receive a Sub-loan under the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).


﻿6
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 1974 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on Ma 1 and
November 1 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May I and November 1 commencing
November 1, 1982 and ending May 1, 2022, each installment to and including
the installment payable on May 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.08. CNCA is designated as the repr antative of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall take or


﻿7
cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable CNCA to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and Loan Agreement
all its obligations as therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to enable CNCA to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall make available to CNCA the proceeds of the Credit
as a contribution to its capital (dotation) under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Association.
Section 3.02. Sections 2.03, 2.04, 2.05 and 3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement
are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as
if they were fully set forth herein; provided, however, that, for the purposes of
this Development Credit Agreement: (i) all references to the Guarantor in such
Sections or in any of them shall be deemed to be references to the Borrower,
(ii) all references to the Bank in such Sections or in any of them shall be deemed
to be references to the Association, and (iii) all references to the Borrower in
such Sections or in any of them shall be deemed to be references to CNCA.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by CNCA of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of CNCA and,
in respect of the Project, the performance of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,


﻿8
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of CNCA and,
in respect of the Project, the performance of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by CNCA of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, alid service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,


﻿9
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   CNCA   shall have failed to perform  any covenant, agreement or
obligation of CNCA under the Loan Agreement or the Project Agreement.
(b)   Dahir No. 1-60-106 of 25 jounada 17 1381 (December 4, 1961) shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as
to materially -d adversely affect the ability of CNCA to carry out the covenants,
agreements and obligations set forth in the Loan Agreement or the Project
Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CNCA or for the
suspension of its operations.
(d)   Any part of the principal amount of any loan to CNCA having an
original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have
become due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative
contractual instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable.
(e)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that CNCA will be able to perform its obligations under the Loan
Agreement or the Project Agreement.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The event specified in paragraph   (a) of Section 6.02 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and CNCA.
(b)   Any event specified in paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of Section 6.02 of
this Agreement shall occur.


﻿10
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
CNCA have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b)   The Loan Agreement and Guarantee Agreement have become effective
in accordance with their terms.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, CNCA, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of CNCA in
accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date February 7, 1973 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.02 of this
Agreement and the provisions of Sections 6.02 and 6.03 of this Agreement shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Subject to Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister of
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿11
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Rabat, Morocco
Cable address:
Ministere Finances
Rabat
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By /s / Badreddine Senoussi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Munir P. Benjenk
Vice President
Europe, Middle East & North Africa


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of
the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of such
proceeds to each Category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
I.    Sub-loans for grain farm           18,000,000     70% of disburse-
equipment under Part A                            ments actually
of the Project                                    made by CNCA
(A)   tractors and at-
tachments
(B)   grain harvesters
and balers
II.   Development of citrus and          11,500,000     70% of disburse-
vegetable production                              ments actually
made by CNCA
(A)   Sub-loans for citrus
and other tree fruit
plantation develop-
ment under Part B of
the Project
(B)   Sub-loans for winter
vegetable production
under Part C of the
Project


﻿13
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
III.  Livestock Development                3,500,000    70% of disburse-
ments actually
made by CNCA
(A)   Sub-loans for dairy
farm development
under Part D of the
Project
(B) Sub-loans for beef
and Sheep fattening
under Part E of the
Project
IV.   Sub-loans for marketing              1,000,000    70% of disburse-
facilities under Part F                           ments actually
of the Project                                    made by CNCA
TOTAL         34,000,000
2.    The amount of the Credit shall be withdrawn from the Credit Account as
provided under Article II of this Agreement, and shall be applied to expenditures
incurred under any Category hereof until the total withdrawals and commitments
in respect of such expenditures shall have reached the equivalent of $10,000,000.
3.    The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account as
provided under Article II of the Loan Agreement and shall be applied to
expenditures incurred under any Category hereof, provided, however, that such
withdrawals shall be made only after the proceeds of the Credit shall have been
fully withdrawn or committed.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:


﻿14
(a)   expenditures prior to September 1, 1972;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit or of
the Loan will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes;
(c)   disbursements by CNCA for Sub-loans for tractors, combines or balers
made at a rate of interest of less than 8% per annum;
(d)   disbursements by CNCA for Sub-loans (for purposes other than those
referred to in sub-paragraph (c)) made at a rate of interest of less than eight per
cent (8%) per annum, if such withdrawals would exceed in the aggregate an amount
equivalent to 20% of the total amount of the Loan and the Credit; and
(e)   disbursements by CNCA under Category IV in respect of any Sub-loan
exceeding the equivalent of $110,000, unless the Association and the Bank or,
after the proceeds of the Credit have been fully withdrawn or committed, the
Bank, shall have approved the making of such Sub-loan.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph I above,
if the estimate of the expenditures under any Categoty or Sub-category shall
decrease, the amount of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan then allocated
to such Category or Sub-category and no longer required therefor will be
reallocated, at the request of CNCA, to any other Category or Sub-category, subject,
however, to the requirements in the other Categories, as determined by the
Association and by the Bank or, after the proceeds of the Credit have been fully
withdrawn or committed, by the Bank, in respect of any other expenditures.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's lending program to finance agricultural
development in Morocco over a period of three years commencing
September 1, 1972, and consists of the following parts:
Part A.     Grain Farm Equipment
The provision of Sub-loans to grain farmers and farmer groups to finance
investments in tractors and attachments, grain harvesters, balers and other farm
machinery, and related farm investments, primarily in rainfed areas.
Part B.     Citrus Plantation Development
The provision of Sub-loans to citrus and other tree fruit farmers to finance
the expansion of existing orchards and the establishment of new plantations,
including land and groundwater development, tractors and equipment, planting
materials, fertilizer, pesticides and labor during the establishment period.
Part C.     Winter Vegetable Production
The provision of Sub-loans to vegetable farmers to finance land and
groundwater development and mechanized equipment for intensive, export-oriented
vegetable production.
Part D.     Dairy Farm Development
The provision of Sub-loans to farmers to finance investments in land and
groundwater development, barn construction, forage-harvesting attachments for
tractors, watering and milk-handling facilities, and the purchase of heifers.
Part E.     Beef Cattle and Sheep
The provision of Sub-loans to farmers to finance construction or improvement
of fattening stables, including watering facilities but not including purchase of feeder
cattle and sheep.
Part F.    Marketing Facilities
The provision of Sub-loans to individuals, cooperatives and commercial
packers to finance investments in pre-packaging, packaging, handling and storage


﻿16
facilities and related equipment, primarily to expand capacity for sorting, grading
and packaging of citrus and other tree fruits, tomatoes and other vegetables.


