CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 338 MOR
Project Agreement
(Second Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE
DATED OCTOBER 10, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 338 MOR
Project Agreement
(Second Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE
DATED OCTOBER 10, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 10, 1972, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and CAISSE
NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE, an autonomous agency (etablissement
publique autonome) of the Kingdom of Morocco established under Dahir
No. 1-60-106 of 25 joumada I 1381 (December 4, 1961) (hereinafter called
CNCA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Kingdom of Morocco (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that CNCA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development
Credit Agreement will be made available to CNCA on the terms and conditions
therein set forth;
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Internationaal Bank for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called the
Bank) and CNCA, the Bank has agreed to make a loan to CNCA in an amount
in various currencies equivalent to twenty-four million dollars ($24,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS CNCA, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreemment, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project; Management and
Operations of CNCA; Financial Covenants
Section 2.01. CNCA shall carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound agricultural, banking and financial standards and practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. The provisions of Articles III, IV and V (except Section 5.03)
of the Loan Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same
force andd effect as if they were fully set forth herein; provided, however, that:
(i) all references to the Guarantor in such Sections or in any of them shall be
deemed to be references to the Borrower, (ii) all references to the Bank in such
Sections or in any of them shall be deemed to be references to the Association,
(iii) all references to the Borrower in such Sections or in any of them shall be
deemed to be references to CNCA, and (iv) all references to the Loan in such
Sections or in any of them shall be deemed to be references to the Credit.
ARTICLE HI
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 3.01. The Association and CNCA shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and CNCA shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of CNCA and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 3.02. The Association and CNCA shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.


﻿5
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of CNCA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly so notify CNCA of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
-         made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For CNCA:


﻿6
Caisse Nationale de Cr6dit Agricole
2, Rue d'Alger
Rabat, Morocco
Cable address:
Crediagricole
Rabat
Section 5.02. CNCA shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of CNCA, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by CNCA pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement and by CNCA on behalf of the Borrower pursuant to Section
2.08 of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Munir P. Benjenk
Vice President
Europe, Middle East & North Africa
CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE
By /s/ M. Lahlou
Authorized Representative


﻿7
SCHEDULE
Policies and Procedures to be Followed by
CNCA in Making Sub-loans to be
Financed out of the Loan and the Credit
1.   Sub-loans under the Project shall be made only to finance development plans
and CNCA shall require a contribution from the Beneficiary of at least 30% of
the estimated total cost of any such plans.
2.    CNCA shall not grant any Sub-loan requiring groundwater development in
any area where danger of overpumping exists, except with the specific approval
in writing of the governmental authority of the Borrower having jurisdiction under
the applicable legislation of the Borrower over groundwater resources.
3.    Whenever a development plan includes two or more of the purposes of the
Project, as listed in paragraph 6 below, CNCA shall make a single Sub-loan for
the financing of such plan.
4.    For any Sub-loan under Part F of the Project that would exceed the
equivalent of $110,000, CNCA shall, before making the Sub-loan, submit to the
Bank and the Association for approval, the loan application and CNCA's technical
and financial appraisal thereof.
5.   The interest rates charged by CNCA on Sub-loans shall be not less than
the applicable rates referred to in Section 5.07 of the Loan Agreement.
6.    Grace and repayment periods for the repayment of principal of Sub-loans
shall not, without the approval of the Bank and the Association, exceed the
following:
Grace     Repayment
Sub-loans for Investments in:           Period        Period        Total
(in years)
Grain Farm Equipment                        -            5             5
Citrus Plantation Development              6             6            12
Winter Vegetable Production                 1            3             4


﻿8
Grace      Repayment
Sub-loans for Investments in:               Period        Period         Total
(in years)
Dairy Farm   Development                       2             5               7
Beef Cattle and Sheep Fattening                1             4               5
Marketing Facilities                                 According to the
life of the project
7.    Approval of Sub-loans shall be made after careful appraisal (including field
inspection), based on farm development plans. Aside from security considerations,
Sub-loan applications shall be evaluated in terms of incremental returns from the
additional investment to be financed and in terms of the repayment capacity of
the Beneficiary.
8.    (a) Except as the Bank and the Association shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans
to any Beneficiary shall not exceed either of the following, unless the excess is
fully guaranteed by the Borrower or a responsible financial institution:
(i)         25% of CNCA's net worth; or
(ii)        15% of the sum of CNCA's net worth and the total principal
amount outstanding of the Borrower's long-term advances to
CNCA.
(b)   For purposes of paragraph (a):
(i)         CNCA's net worth shall mean its capital (dotation), general
reserves (reserves globales) and surplus (benfice net apr's
provisions); and
(ii)        long-term  advances shall mean    loans or advances having
outstanding maturities of not less than five years.
9.    CNCA shall obtain adequate security on Sub-loans. Aside from      security
considerations, CNCA shall not make any Sub-loans unless it is first satisfied with
regard to the viability of the development plan to be financed therewith and the
earnings potential of the enterprise.


﻿9
10.   CNCA shall, if necessary to carry out the development plan for which a
Sub-loan is to be granted, finance the working capital requirements of the
Beneficiary or assure that adequate financing is available for current expenditures.
11.   (a)   Sub-loans shall be made under written agreements with the Beneficiary
which shall include, without limitation, provisions implementing the terms of
paragraphs 5 and 6 above and obtaining the following rights:
(i)         the right to require the Beneficiary to carry out the development
plan approved by CNCA, and to carry on its operations with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, agricultural, commercial and financial practices and
standards, and to maintain adequate records as appropriate;
(ii)        the right of CNCA and the Bank and the Association to inspect
the premises the improvement of which is financed by the
Sub-loan, any equipment, materials or inputs financed by the
Sub-loan, the operations of the Beneficiary, and any relevant
records and documents as appropriate;
(iii)       the right to obtain all such information as CNCA, the Bank or
the Association shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary;
(iv)        the right to require that the proceeds of the Sub-loan not be
expended for goods produced in, or services supplied from, any
country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland);
(v)         the right to require that the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan shall be purchased at a
reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability
thereof, and availability of service and spare parts therefor;
(vi)        the right to require the Beneficiary to take out and maintain
with responsible insurers insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice; and
(vii)       the right to suspend or terminate access by the Beneficiary to
the use of the Sub-loan upon failure by him to perform his
obligations and, in appropriate cases, to premature the Sub-loan.


﻿10
(b)   CNCA shall exercise its rights under the Sub-loan agreement referred
to in sub-paragraph (a) above so as to protect the interests of CNCA and the
Bank and the Association.
(c)   CNCA shall supervise Sub-loans made by it in accordance with sound
banking and agricultural practices. Such supervision shall include periodic visits to
farms or marketing facilities, as the case may be, to ensure that the proceeds of
Sub-loans are being used properly and that satisfactory progress is being made in
completing the investment.


