Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9513
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT lll-EGT)
APRIL 26, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East & North Africa Regional Office
This documen. :.as a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discbsed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00   =   LE  2.55
LE  1.00   =   US$ 0.39
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
FAO/CP   =  Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative
Program
GDP      =  Gross Domestic Product
IDA      =  International Development Association
MFF      = Maryut Fish Farm
MFFC     = Maryut Fish Farming Company
O&M      =  Operation and Maintenance
PA       =  Project Authority
PBDAC    =  Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
SDR      =  Special Drawing Rights
WND      =  West Nubariya Drain
GOVERNMENT OF ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISCAL YEAR
July i to June 30
OTHER
1 Feddan = 0.42 Hectare (Ha)



TI* WORLD SANKFMR OFICIAlL UnU ONLY
TFZ WO*LD BANK
Washengton. D.C 20433
U.S A.
01ke 1.i OvcIG"eWai
Op.ram Ivakaulww'
April 26, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Egypt
Fish Farming Development Prolect (Credit 1111-EGT)
Attached, for your information, is a copy of a report
entitled 'Project Completion Report on Egypt - Fish Farming
Development Project (Credit 1111-EGT)" prepared by the Europe,
Middle East & North Africa Regional Office.   No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
This document has a rstnctcd distwbution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disclod without Wold lak authori,tlo



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT llll-EGT)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ..   .. .               ..................................... ..   i
Evaluation Summary ............ .... ........................ iii
PART I   PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity   .      ................................      1
Background. ....................  ...................... 1
Project Objectives and Description                  ........ 2
Project Design        ..... ......................... . 2
Project Implementation .................................   ... . 4
Project Risks ............................................. 8
Project Results         ............................................. 8
Project Sustainability ..........    .     .......... ........ . 9
IDA Performance ...............     ............   . .................. 9
Borrower Performance  . .................................. 10
Project Relationship ........................................ 10
Consulting Services        .     ........................ . . 11
Lessons Learned... .                          ...............   11.
PART II  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Project   Background  ............ ....................    ...........  13
Project Aims and Objectives      ................ ..... 13
Project's Preliminary Description ......................       14
Drainage - Pumping Station..*i...... . ................... 23
Final Designs of MFF. ..v....+**..................... O.... 24
The Tender and Bidders...    ..........     ... r............ 34
Total Costs Overrun. ....... . ............ o ....... ....... . ... 35
Coordination Committee and Project Implementation
Monitoring Unit (PIMU) Efficiency.                         35
MFF Pilot Pondso........ .. O .........                        36
Individual Fish Farmer Credit....                       .. 36
Improvement of El-Max Fry Collection Station..........o.. 37
Technical Assistance for Training, Extension, Monitoring
and Evaluation. .... ................38
Studies........                 . .39
Procurement of Equipment          ..          .39
Maryut Fish Farm Company (MFFC).. 41
Conclusions and Lessons Learned          ...........42
Attachment    .............................................   .  4..
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART III SUMMARY STATISTICAL DATA
Tables
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits             .. 46
2. Project Timetable    ....... ......................... 47
3. Loan/Credit Disbursement      .      .................... ...... . 48
4. Project Implementation .................................... 49
5. Project Costs and Financing
A.  Project  Costs .........................                51
B. Project Financing ..............         ..      ....... . 52
6. Project Results
A. Production and Yield Per Feddan ....................... 53
B. Economic Analysis of Maryut Fish Farm .................   54
C. Projected Cash flows for a Fish Farm at Maryut ........ 55
7. Table of Covenants ................... ....... ...... . 57
8. Studies ................................................... 59
9. Use of Bank Resource - Mission Data ...................... 60



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PilOJECT
(CREDIT 1111-EGT)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for Fish Farming
Development Project in Egypt, for which Credit 1111-EGT in the amount of
SDR 11.00 million (US$14 million equivalent) was approved on March 17,
1981. The Closing Date was extended by 30 months from 12/86 to 6/89. A
total amount of SDR 9,118,348.89 was disbursed and the unutilized balance
of SDR 1,881,651.11 was cancelled, with the final disbursement being made
on March 8, 1990.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of
the Country Department III, Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional
Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Paits I and III), and the Borrower
(Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started in May 1989, a't.. is based,
inter alia, on the findings of a PCR mission and on the Sta   .ippraisal
Report, the Development Credit Agreement, supervision repor.s,
correspondence between the IDA and the Borrower, and internal Bank
memoranda.



- iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1111-EGT)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction and Objectives:
1.       The Fish Farming Development Project (Cr.1111-EGT) was the onlv
proiect of the Bank and IDA in this sub-sector in Egypt and was designed
as a demonstration project, the first of its kind for commercial
aquaculture development in Egypt. The major objectives of the project
were as follows: (a) increase fish production (by 3800 tons of fresh fish
annually at full devielopment) and supply low cost protein and thereby help
reduce imports; (b) utilize land and water resources which had little
alternative use to improve income and employment opportunities for the
rural population; (c) replace traditional aquaculture practices with more
modern semi-Intensive production techniques; and, (d) contribute toward
institution building through technical assistance and training in pond
operation, extension, credit appraisal, monitoring and evaluation. To
attain these objectives, the project provided, inter alia, for (i) the
construction and operation of a fish pond complex of 3,103 feddans at
Maryut with necessary physical and social infrastructure and technical
assistance and training with consultant assistance, (ii) medium and long
term credits to individual fish farmers, and (iii) programs for
strengthening extension services and monitoring and evaluation. The major
component of the project was the Maryut Fish Farm (MFF). The project was
prepared with consultants financed out of a project preparation facility
(PPF).
Implement.ation Experience:
2.       The MFF appraisal design was for 214 production ponds of about
12.3 feddan each, with water to be carried through a main canal from the
West Nubariya Drain (WND) and to be distributed to ponds through combined
feeder-cum-drainage canal. This design was changed by a new team of
project consultants engaged for detail design work shortly after the
Credit Agreement (Cr.1111-EGT) was signed in 1981. It envisaged (i)
increasing the number of ponds to 444 and a consequent reduction in pond
size (to 5.5 fed. each), (ii) moving the main supply canal to higher
elevation, and (iii) switching from a single supply/drainage canal to
separate supply and drainage canals. This modified design envisaged
substantial reduction in the amount of earthworks required for canal and
pond construction, and was fairly close in concept to the fish farm
layouts initially proposed by consultants and the FAO/CP during project
preparation; however,this concept had been considered as overly complex
and expensive by the appraisal mission  and had, therefore? been rejected
in favor of the combined canal and larger pond size design.
Notwithstanding the view that the cost of providing separate supply and



- iv -
drainage canals would be higher than the combined supply/drainage canals,
IDA noted that the redesign permitted flexibility in pond operations and,
as a practical matter, it agreed to the modified design proposed by the
second team of consultants. In short, while the appraisal mission had
given greater weightage to cost consieqrations, the subsiquent decision to
go along with a re-design was jusuifie.. on grounds of the flexibility it
would afford to pond operators. On balance, the redesigr had the merit of
being a technically superior solution for the project. In the event,
however, unforeseen difficulties resulting from uncohesive soils at the
project site (a contingency which could have been sorted out through more
adequate soil mechanics analysis during project preparation), caused
difficulties in project implementation. Furthermore, lack of adequate
engineerinj supervision and contractor's dispute with the Project
Authority (PA) or. compensation to be paid for rising costs resulted in
interruption of project works and delays in implementation. IDA played a
positive role in bringing about a resolution of the problems between the
PA and the contractor. The quality of the civil works was deemed
adequate.
3.       Project implementation was adversely affected also by
disagreements between the PA and the project consultants on the role of
the consultants to supervise project works. Eventually the consultants
were terminated and, as a result, engineering supervision, technical
assistance, and training under the project suffered. Within the limited
room allowed to them, the consultants performed well. Insufficient
staffing of the PA, delay in setting up the Maryut Fish Farming Company
(MFFC), and failure to select and train in a timely manner adequate number
of pond operators have had an adverse effect on the MFF's performance.
The implementation time-table adopted at appraisal proved to be overly
optimistic, and there was a five year delay in bringing the MFF to a
state of substantial completion.
4.       The credit component for individual fish farmers started four
years behind schedule and only 27 per cent of the credit funds was
utilized. Notwithstanding the agreement reached at negotiations that
PBDAC would relax its normal collateral requirements and accept long-term
leases and fish farm investments as security for subloans, these
conditions were not fulfilled by the Borrower. IDA's persistent efforts
to secure compliance with these requirements did not succeed. Training
provided to PBDAC staff in appraising and processing investment proposals
of individual fish pond operators was generally effective. With regard to
the training given to the staff and pond operators of the MFF, only few
remained with the project. The reason for the loss of trained personnel
may be attributable to inadequate in-.cntives and working conditions in the
project area. Their performance has been satisfactory. The Borrower's
PCR considers the institution building component to have been
satisfactorily completed; however, in the opinion of IDA staff, this
component has been at best only partially successful.
?roiect Results
5.       The project's objective of demonstrating the utilization of
saline water and unproductive lands for development of aquaculture was
attained with the start up of production trials. Given the high investment
costs involved in the project and che slow build up of production, the
commercial viabilitv of such operations remains to be demonstrated. As



-v -
envisaged at project appraisal, the project has turned out to be qtvite
sensitive to the yield build-up period. Whereas the appraisal report
estimated the ERR of the Maryut component at 17.9 per cent on the basis of
a three-year period for yield build-up, the yield build -'-j is expected to
take eight years and the PCR estimates the ERR at about 5 per cent, The
financial rate of return of a typical 5.5 fed pond operator at HFF is
estimated at about 12 per cent. In the first year of actual operations of
the pilot ponds, the catch averaged 500 kg per feddan, as against the
appraisal estimate of 600 kg per feddan. Productivity of the ponds is
critically dependent on effective management of the ponds by the pond
operators and timely availability of water supply, fry and inputs, and
training and extension. It is also essential to allow the pond operators
a free hand in marketing their output. With the sale of the ponds to
individual pond operators which is currently underway, effective
management and operation of the individual ponds is likely to be ensured.
A clear definition of the organizational arrangements between pond owners
and flFFC as well as between the MFFC and PA is needed.
Sust,aingbility
6.       The most significant issue affecting project sustainability
relates to the role of the PA in providing infra-tructure, input supplies
and services to the pond operators. A well-trained team of executives and
working level staff should be engaged with adequate incentives to assure
the project's future. Despite its shortcomings, MFFC can achieve
commercial viability in its third year of operations, provided pond
operators are effectively trained and assisted by the PA staff during
initial operations and appropriate feed and inputs are supplied in a
timely manner. Training in aquaculture, development of an effective
extension service, and granting of long-term land leases (of ten years or
more) are among actions needed to promote investment by individual fish
farmers.
Findings and Lessons Learned
7.       The main findings of the PCR are as follows:
(a) Demonstration projects, such as MFF, need to be modest ia
scale, simple in design, and closely monitored during implementation. As
a result of the Association's involvement in project preparation and with
persistent efforts ac appraisal, the originally identified project of
30,000 feddans was reduced to 3,100 feddans; yet, the project was still
too large a scheme of its kind. Givern the limited implementation capacity
which existed in the sector, the scale of the project proved to be
ambitious.
(b) Lack of adequate analysis of soil mechanics led to unforeseen
risks in construction. 'when the project was redesigned by the
consultants, neither the problem of uncohesive soils at project site, nor
:he definition of the maximum wacer level of the adjoining lake was fully
taken into account. Subsequent problems encountered during construction
and the flooding of the project site which occurred point to the need for
adequate soil and hydrological analysis to be carried out at the project
preparation stage.



- vi -
(c) The appraisal had assumed an ambitious time-cable of 25
months for completion of project civil works. In the event it took over
55 months for the contractor to carry out a substantial portion of the
infrastructure. The time period allowed for completion of the West
Nubariya Drain was also inadequate. Furthermore, there were delays in the
commissiooning of the drainage stations. In general, experience with
projects in Egypt point to the need for caution in this regard by building
in adequate tiuae for contract awards and completion of works.
(d) Enforcement of a fixed price contract for -ivil works caused
frictions between the contractor and the PA. Unlike the implementation
delays outlined above which could not be foreseen, it was possible to
predict the problems inherent in entering into fixed price contracts,
especially in an inflationary environment. In general, fixed price
contracts for complex civil works should not be undertaken as they run the
risk of interruption.
(e) The respective role of the PA and consultants in provision of
engineering supervision, technical assistance and training should be
clearly defined in order to avoicf frictions between the parties. In this
instance, the PA did not allow the consultants to play their role
properly. As a result, the project suffered avoidable delays and
deficiencies. The PA also did not have an adequate cadre of trained
staff. This underscores the need to have not only in-house capability,
but also the need to strengthen the team with consultants to supervise the
works and help solve implementation problems as they emerge.
(f) Despite the understandings reached during negotiations, the
creation of MFFC proved to be too innovative an approach for this sub-
sector. There were no public sector partners or agencies which wanted to
invest in the project until the infrastructure was in place. While the
appraisal mission was justified in promoting an autonomous MFFC through
the creation of a Law 43 company, the timing envisaged for its setting up
proved to be inappropriate in the Government's mind. In retrospect, it
might have been better had the company been formed either at the very
start of the project or, preferably, when the project went into an
operational phase. Although the MFFC was established recently, its
relationship with the PA is yet to be fully defined; similarly, the role
of the MFFC in relation to the pond owners remains unclear. This is
likely to impact adversely on the project's operation. While the role of
the pond owners vis-a-vis MFFC could be sorted out internally by the
MFFC's Board, the Government should clearly establish the contractual
arrangements between the PA and MFFC in order to ensure the project's
sustainability. In due course, it would be appropriate to transfer the
infrastructure to MFFC and strengthen the MFFC with adequate staff and
maintenance equipment so chat it effectively becomes an autonomous service
company.
(g) The svstem of having a piloc phase before actual project
start up proved useful in demonstractng -hat :he nacural f-ood produczion
in the ponds was inadequate and chat   ed for cilapia and mullec under a
polyculture system would be necessa       It is, therefore, appropriate to
provide for pilot operations, particuiarly in the case of such projects
involving untried technology or difficult site conditions.



EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1111-EGT)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name            Fish Farming Development Project
Credit No.               1111-EGT
RVP Unit                EMENA
Country                 Egypt
Sector                  Agriculture
Subsector               Fisheries
2. Background
2.01     Fish is a traditional component of the Egyptian diet accounting
for 20 to 30% of total consumption of animal protein. Despite its
abundance of marine and inland water sources, total production of fish in
Egypt has remained far short of demand and fish imports have been rising
rapidly. As part of its food security strategy, Egypt has sought to
reduce its dependence on fish imports and has given high priority to
inland fisheries development. However, because of administrative
weaknesses, shortage of trained aquaculture tecbnicians, unclear policies
and conflicting priorities for land use, development of fisheries was held
back. In the late 1970s the Government drew up a plan to expand, inter
alia, fish farming on about 60,000 feddans and establish ten carp
hatcheries by 1990. It established a high level national committee for
aquaculture development to provide overall policy guidance and
coordination. It also offered subsidised credit to encourage fish farming
by small holders. Since the growth potential from most of the traditional
sources of supply w?as limited, the Government sought to develop modern
aquaculture practices through both large scale and small scale commercial
operations. As part of this strategy, the Fish Farming Development
Project (Cr. 1111-EGT) was developed in 1979/80.
2.02     The project sought to utilize land resources with high water
tables and saline soils and consequently little agricultural potential.
Out of a total of 30,000 feddans of such lands which were identified,
basic designs for an initial area of 10,000 feddans and detailed designs
for fish farms on a sample area of 5,000 feddans were prepared. While the
Egyptian authorities wanted to develop a large area for inland fisheries,
IDA argued for a "conservative project size", given the shortage of
experts with relevant practical experience in large-scale intensive
aquaculcure. In the event, an area of 3,100 feddans in the Maryut Valley
was selected for development in the first phase. IDA assisted the
Government with a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance to prepare
detailed designs for this area. In addition, a credit line was designed
to encourage investment in individual fish farms.



-2-
3.  Proie.t Oblectives and Deucription
3.01     The project was intended to be a five-year demonstratian program
of commercial aquaculture development on both a large and small scale,
utilizing drainage water and land with no better alternative use. The
concept was based primarily on indigenous fish species (tilapia and
mullet). It aimed at increasing production and productivity through
development of n&cessary physical infrastructure and provision of credit,
technical assis:ance and training.
a) Objlectives
3.02     The major objectives of the project were to: (i) increase fish
production (by 3,800 tons of fresh fish annually at full development)
thereby supplying low cost protein and reducing dependence on imports;
(ii) utilize land and water resources with little alternative use thereby
improving incomes and employment opportunities for the rural population;
(iii) replace traditional aquaculture oractices with more modern and
intensive production techniques; and (iv) contribute toward polbcy changes
and institution building through technical assistance/training Ln pond
operation, extension, credit appraisal, monitoring and evaluation.
b) Components
3.03     The project components included: (a) establishment of fish farm
facilities on about 3,100 feddans at Maryut, including construction of
ponds, water supply and drain canals and feeder channels, pump station, an
effluent pipeline, housing and other infrastructure, and provision of
transport and operational equipment; (b) provision of medium/long-term
credits for improvement or establishment (including civil works and
equipment) of about l( individual fish farms on a total of some 1,800
feddans in four governo. tes in the Nile Delta; (c) improvements to an
existing mullet fry collection station; (d) provision of additional
facilities and equipment for fish farm management training and
strengthening of extension services; (e) a fish marketing study and a
project preparation study; and (f) technical assistance for supervision of
construction and fish farm operation/manegement at Maryut, extension,
monitoring and evaluation, and training.
4. Project Design
4.01     The initial design for the pond complex at Maryut provided for
214 ponds of 12.3 feddans each. In addition, provision was made for 12
wintering ponds. The total water area was divided into six blocks, each
of which was to accommodate between 26 and 38 production ponds and two
wintering ponds. Water was to be derived from the West Nubariya Drain
(WND), which was under construction. There was to be a main supply canal
which would distribute water to ponds and through this to feeder/drainage
channels. The pond depth was set at an average of 1.0-1.2 meters. The
drainage water was to be lifted back through a main drain by pumping it
back into WND. The project also provided for housing for 250 pond
operators. With respect to the individual fish farmer credit schem , the
project envisaged provision of medium- to long-term loans to individual
fish farmers in four Delta Governorates (Kafr El Sheikh, Beheira, Sharkia
and Damietta). Most medium-and long-term loans were expected to be given
for 10 to 30 feddan fish farms. Provision was made for a substantial



- 3 -
amount of technical assistance to strengthen the institutions involved in
the project and to train, inter alia, aquaculture technicians, pond
operators, research staff and extension workers.
4.02     Evidently the conceptual foundation for the project on the
Government's part was based on a large scheme of 30,000 feddans. For its
part, IDA was not in favor of a massive project.  Duting the project
preparation, projects of different dimensions varying between 14,000
feddans and 3,000 feddans were considered and the size, scope and design
of the project appraised by IDA was based on the most viable system, both
technically and economically. The appraisal mission endeavored to reduce
the project substantially to a level which appeared prudent, given the
objective of demonstrating commercial aquaculture development on both a
large and small scale, by utilizing land and water with no better
alternative use. Notwithstanding the drastic reduction in the size of the
project, however, the proposed Maryut Fish Farm was still one of the
largest aquaculture schemes of its kind in the world. As it was intended
to be a model for future commercial aquaculture development, the project
design was comprehensive in scope, and aimed to tackle the problems of
developing a large area of fish ponds with stable embankments in a sandy
and saline setting. At the same time, it sought to overcome the
institutional and technical weaknesses in the fisheries sector at large.
Furthermore, the projecc aimed at developing individual aquaculture farms.
All these objectives were to be accomplished in a five-year period despite
the deficiencies in the sector (see para 2.01). This was evidently an
ambitious time-table. In Egypt, experience has shown that to be
effective, projects should be simple in design, have a single well-defined
objective, and have institutional expertise already in place.
4.03     The preparation of the project as well as its design were based
on the work done by a team of external consultants from the U.K. who were
financed by a Project Preparation Facility. The consultants proved to be
far more experienced in engineering aspects than in aquaculture
development. Final designs for the project were prepared by a new joint
venture consisting of consultants from USA, Egypt and France. The
construction supervision and technical assistance contract during
implementation was entrusted to this joint venture. However, as the USA
firm came under investigation for activities under another bilateral
project, the firm's services were terminated and the remainder of the
joint venture continued with the project. With a view to reducing the
size of the individual ponds, increasing the number of beneficiaries, and
reducing operating risks, the new consultant team recommended construction
of separate faeder/drain canals. Besides modifying the location of the
main canal and the main drains, the modified design also altered the
operational system for filling and draining the ponds, as well as the size
and number of ponds; instead of 214 ponds of 12.3 feddans each, it was now
proposed to have 444 ponds of 5.5 feddans each. The pond depth and the
production regime were not modified. A full discus-ion of the merits of
the revised design is contained in the Borrower's Part II (see paras 3.01
to 3.065 and paras 5.01 to 5.25).
4.04     As regards engineering and project design, there were several
deficiencies. Firstly, the proposal for a cut and fill approach in the
construction of the fish ponds was not based on adequate soil mechanics
analysis. The bill of quantities of the contractor was based on the
assumption that the soil available at the project site could be used for



the embankments, but this proved inappropriate during construction.
Secondly, the investigation to define the maximum water level in the
surrounding lake, and the crest elevation of the dikes needed to avoid
flooding of the Maryut fish farm, proved inadequate as the embankment
failed to hold flood waters in 1988. Thirdly, the design of the main
feeder and drainage canal location proved to be deficient. When a new
team of consultants retained for preparation of detailed design of the
project offered a different layout, IDA initially resisted this idea,
suggesting that the proposed cornmon inlet/outlet canals and wintering
ponds be retained and their merits evaluated following actual operation of
fish farms on a commercial basis. However, during a subsequent mission in
December 1981 IDA staff accepted the advantages of the modified plan in
relocating the main supply canal system to a higher ground and utilizing
low lands for drains. It also noted that the soils at the construction
site were tvery poor" and non-homogenous, requiring proper mix of material
which might have to be brought to the project site. These additional
earthworks involved higher unit costs, over and above what had been
provided for in the physical contingencies allowed for at appraisal.
These developments suggest tha, despite form& acceptance of the initial
design by the borrower and IDA at the tize of credit negotiations, there
remained gaps in understanding between the two parties on the project
design. Subsequent difficulties encountered duting project implementation
between the contractor and the PA were attributable inter alia to the poor
quality of the project site and the costs involved in remedying the
construction problems which were encountered. This situation was
exacerbated due to project management reluctance to hire a consultant to
supervise the implementation, in spite of the numerous recommendations by
IDA. Even after completion, the project would need intensive maintenance
for pond levelling and embankment stabilization, thus affecting the
viability of cummercial operations.
4.05     The institutional arrangement for the MFFC envisaged the setting
up of an autonomous company with Government and private shareholding. The
company was expected to be free from public sector rsgulations. While
this approach was innovative, it proved to be inappropriate for this sub-
sector as the promotion of such a venture was not actively supported by
private investors, the PBDAC, or the Government. Evidently, the timing
envisioned for the establishment of the MFFC was deemed inappropriate by
the Borrower, notwithstanding the commitment it had made at credit
negotiations. The MFFC has been set up recently, but is yet to assume the
functions assigned to it.
5. Project Implementation
Critical Variances Between Planned and Actual Project Implementation:
5.01     Apart from the project design issue, there were several variances
experienced during project implementation. While the appraisal report
envisaged a two-year period for completion of the pond complex, actual
implementation started 22 months behind schedule and it took almost five
years thereafter for the major proportion of the works to be completed to
start pilot operations. Unforeseen difficulties at the project site
because of uncohesive wet soils, lack of effective engineering
supervision, disagreements between the PA and the contractor, and long
delays in the completion of the WND and in the operation of the drainage
pumping station affected project implementation adversely. Disagreement



ensued between the PA and the civil works contractor because of a fixed
price contract. This led to demobilization by the contractor. According
to the Borrower, this was "the most serious problem ever faced by the
project". The matter was ultimately settled by allowing for price
quantity increases. While the pond complex has been completed, there
still remains a substantial amount of levelling and trimming to be done
and these works are being carried out by the PA with the maintenance
equipment financed under the project. Despite repeated urgings by IDA
supervision missions, the PA has given insufficient attention to
engineering supervision. It would appear that the presence of a competent
engineering supervisor throughout the project implementation period would
have helped ensure quality as well as timeliness in completing the works.
Figures on re-estimated costs, including the costs of the remaining works,
such as levelling and trimming of the ponds, have not been provided to IDA
by the PA despite repeated requests.
5.02     It would be advisable to reiterate the recommendation to the
Government to undertake the following steps to ensure an adequate
operation and maintenance of the Maryut Fish Farm and reach acceptable
standards:
(a) Carry out further technical studies in order to define the
maximum water level of the surrounding lake and select the
design flood and the adequate crest elevation of the outer
dikes in order to avoid repetition of damages caused by
overtopping. Design should include the required slope
protection (riprap) against wave action.
(b) Study the solution to the problem caused by the accumulation
by the constructors of the excavated material from the
bottom of the ponds against the embankments' slope. This is
important because it will easily slide back to the bottom,
originating an endless expensive maintenance process. The
study should address the minimum requirements of the ponds
cross section and shape.
(c) Ensure adequate access to the ponds by placing an asphalt or
gravel carpet to the roads.
(d) Analyze the hydraulic conditions of the distribution and
drainage system and assess its capability to fill and empty
the ponds at the required timing to allow normal operation
of these fisheries facilities around the year.
5.03     Several other factors also adversely impacted upon the
implementation phase. Foremost among these were: (i) insufficient
staffing of the PA, (ii) delay in the selection of the pond operators and
their training, which should have been done in the early stages of the
project, (iii) delay in the setting up of the Maryut Fish Farming Company
(MFFC) and development of a program for its shareholding and operations,
and (iv) failure to grant long-term land leases to individual fish farmers
and relax collateral requirements for credit to fish farmers.
5.04     Among other factors, deficiencies in tender documents, long
delays in the evaluation and award of contracts and in the delivery of
construction site to the contractor impeded project implementation. The



- 6 -
project had to cop- with other problems also, such as ensuring water
quality, providing flood protection, and substituting sources for supply
of mullet fry. Most importantly, the absence of effective consultant
support, as wvll as lack of adequately trained deputies to the Project
Director, had an adverse effect both on the quality of works and on
timeliness of project execution. Although training was provided to about
49 project employees, only about 12 remained with the project. It will be
necessary to provide adequate incentives to retain the trained staff.
Given that it is a "demonstration project", the project should develop
throus,h its activities the required skills for implementation and
operation of other aquaculture schemes in the country.
5.05     During the implementation phase, the Association was haunted by
misgivings regarding project management and the technical and economic
viability of the project in the light of the delays and cost overruns. On
the other hand, the PA exhibited no particular concern on these accounts.
When faced with the problems of construction on uncohesive soils, and
given the problems between the PA, the contractor and the consultants, the
Association considered various options, including the possibility of
reducing further the scope of MFF. However, inasmuch as the contractor
had carried out works scattered around the whole perimeter of the project
while awaiting the central part of the project site and had incurred
considerable expenditure, the Association decided to remain with its
funding for the MFF.
5.06     With regard to the institutional arrangements, the innovative
approach to establish a joint venture for the MFF ran into resistance as
the PA expressed doubts regarding the timing and structure proposed.
While the appraisal report envisaged that pond operators would buy shares
in the company and that the Government and PBDAC would gradually divest
their equity holdings in the company in favor of individual pond
operators, the implementation of this scheme ran into problems and the
selection of the pond operators was deferred. There were, in fact, no
investors who were willing to take up shares in MFFC, pending completion
of the project infrastructure. Given the preoccupation with the
implementation of the civil works for the pond complex, the PA did not
give adequate attention to the organizational aspects of the project until
the time of project completion. The MFFC was finally created in February
1989, but the structure and role of the company continues to be ill-
defined. The arrangements proposed now envisage that the pond operators
would become members of the MFFC and this company would help organize farm
management and operations. Services such as provision of water to the
ponds, operation and maintenance of the infrastructure and utilicies,
supply of inputs, etc., would continue to be the responsibility of the PA
and the MFFC would pay a fee for these services. Coordination of
activities between these two entities are yet to be worked out.
5.07     With respect to the production phase, pilot operations in 22
ponds started on a modest scale in March 1987. The components relating to
studies, training and fry collection underwent changes in the course of
project implementation. With respect to the studies, the marketing study
was fit.anced under the first Agro-Industries Project (Cr. 988-EGT) and the
fish farming project preparation study was cancelled. The housing
component, which was reviewed from time to time, was eventually abandoned
due to financial stringency; instead, arrangements were made for pond
operators' transportation from the nearby Ameriya township. As for the



- 7 -
training component, in-country training activities were organized at the
Alexandria Fish Farm instead of at the El Zaweys Fish farm. This change
as well as the decision to have a pilot phase to determine the operational
plan of the farm has been favorably commented upon by the Borrower (see
para 9.00 of the Borrower's PCR). While initial training appropriate to
tilapia production and fresh water fish farm management was provided,
further training, including brackish water operations, was organized
subsequently at the Maryut pilot facility. The pilot operation and on-
site training resulted in the PA determining that the natural food
production in the ponds was inadequate and that feed for tilapia and
mullet under a polyculture system would be necessary. Fellowships for
overseas training were awarded but few among those trained remained with
the project. The reasons for the loss of trained personnel by the PA are
attributable to lack of adequate financial incentives and fifferent
working conditions in the project area. As regards fish farming extension
services, the progress made was modest. The project had provided for
establishment of fry collection facilities at the El Mex Station.
However, as availability of wild fry became scarce and the expansion of
the El Mex Station was abandoned, the PA began collecting fry from the WND
at the project site. Hatcheries established on the farm have the
potential to provide large amounts of tilapia fry and fry of fresh water
shrimp. Fresh water prawn and tilapia farming are clear production
alternatives to mullet farming. The hatcheries at the project site are
adequate to meet the fry needs of not only the project, but also other
fish pond operations. Marketing of catch frcm harvested ponds is being
handled by the PA on site and, given the strong demand for fish and high
prices in the market, there should be no difficulty in finding markets for
the project's output.
5.08     With respect to the credit component, although the project unit
within the PBDAC was established, operations did not begin until 1985,
i.e. three years behind schedule. Out of SDR 2 million allocated for this
component only SDR 0.54 million was on-lent. The reasons for low credit
utilization were the short duration of land leases and the requirement of
PBDAC for adequate collateral. During the project implementation, IDA
agreed to allow PBDAC to increase the ceiling on amounts of sub-loans and
allow lending to individual fish farmers anywhere in the country instead
of in the four Delta Governorates, as envisaged at appraisal. However,
without long-term leases and less stringent collateral requirements, the
waiver granted by IDA was by itself of limited value in improving the rate
of utilization of the credit line by individual fish farmers.
5.09     As regards disbursements, these were projected at appraisal to
commence in mid-FY81 and complete by end-FY86, i.e. over a period of five
and a half years. Actual disbursements occurred over about 9 years from
FY81. Due to implementation delays, the tempo of disbursement was much
slower than projected in the earlier years of the project. It had barely
reached about 39% of appraisal estimates up to FY85, but the pace improved
thereafter, reaching final cumulative disbursement of SDR 9.2 million,
about 83% of the total credit, in the third quarter of FY90 (see Part III,
Table 3). The undisbursed balance of SDR 1.88 million was cancelled.
Audit of project accounts, although long delayed, was fulfilled.
5.10     There were long delays in completing procurement which, in turn,
affected execution of the project works. Consequently, the closing date
of the credit was postponed from December 1986 to June 1989.



-8-
6. Prolect Risks
6.01     The potential risks identified by the appraisal mission, namely,
delay in implementation, increase in maintenance costs and inadequate
management, were, in fact, realized during project implementation,
notwithstanding the safeguards built in the project design, such as
consultancy services, training, etc. At this stage, it is essential to
ensure adequate technical and management support to the MFFC and the PA to
achieve a quicker bui14 up of production and satisfactory operation and
maintenance of the MFF complex.
7. Prolect Results
7.01     The appraisal report called for production of 600 kg per feddan
in year one and 1.05 tons per feddan in year four of operation. In the
first year of actual operations (i.e. 1989/90), the catch averaged 500 kg.
per feddan. The lower yield can be attributed to the low quality of fry,
low level of protein and relatively high salinity levels in the ponds as
well as predation by migratory birds. The production levels needed for
commercially rewarding operations could be achieved in the third year of
operation, provided pond operators are effectively trained and assisted by
the staff of the farm during initial operations and appropriate feed and
inputs are supplied in a timely manner. Delays in the effective
establishment and staffing of MFFC and in the selection and training of
pond operators will further weaken the project's viability. In the
interim, the PA is handling the production, O&M, and marketing of the
output of the pond complex with its own staff. Pond levelling and
finishing of the dykes remain and this would require regular scheduling of
maintenance operations. The project which was designed to be operated as
a model for small, individual pond operators through a jointly held
company is now functioning as a Government-run activity under the PA.
With the ongoing sale of the individual ponds, and the establishment of
MFFC, it is anticipated that the MFFC would eventually assume its role as
an autonomous service organization as envii;aged at project appraisal.
This would require considerable strengthening of MFFC's management and
technical competence.
7.02     The institutional development objectives of the project have been
only partially fulfilled. As regards the individual fish farms under the
line of credit through PBDAC, the results achieved have been moderately
successful, notwithstanding the fact that only about 27% of the credit
line was utilized. In all, 48 sub-loans oere approved as against the
appraisal target of 100 farms. In two-thirds of the approvals, land was
rented by the sub-borrower, while for the remaining one-third, land was
owned by the sub-borrower. Two-thirds of the sub-loans were for projects
located in the Behiera Governorate. A total area of 1,445 feddan was
financed, as against the appraisal target of 1,800 feddan. About 60
percent of the financing was utilized for improving existing ponds and,
consequently, the avera&a investment was relatively modest, amounting to
about LE 900 per feddan.
7.03     The economic rate of return envisaged at appraisal for the Maryut
complex was 18 per cent. The project is still in its trial production
phase. The build-up of production has lagged well behind the assumption
made at appraisal. Consequently, the ERR is estimated at about 5 percent.
The financial rate of return for a 5.5 feddan pond operation is estimated



- 9 -
at about 12 percent. Although the current level of production of 0.6
ton/feddan is insufficient for profitable operations, it should be
possible to build up yields with better pond management, assured
availability of fry and improved quality of feed. As part of the pilot
operations, the PA is experimenting with different production alternatives
and will eventually choose the best alternative. At full development, it
is expected that the project would yield about 3,400 tons annually,
compared to the appraisal estimate of 2,560 tons of incremental production
per annum.
8. Prolect Sustainability
8.01     The project, although large in size, was a demonstration program
of commercial aquaculture development on both large scale and small scale
in Egypt, utilizing land and water with no better alternative - e. From
this standpoint, the creation of the large fish pond complex a. Maryut has
demonstrated the technical feasibility of utilizing agriculturally
infertile soils and saline water to raise different species of fish.
There are no technical constraints to achieving production levels which
are commercially rewarding. As already noted, this would require good
farm management, well trained pond operators, and timely supply of
appropriate inputs. With respect to individual fish farms supported by
the cred4t line through PBDAC, long-term leases (of 10 years) and
effective extension support given to investors would help in attracting
investments in new fish farms.
9. IDA Performance
9.01     By supporting the Fish Farming Project, IDA has enabled Egypt to
utilize marginal soils and low quality water to meet a part of its
nutritional requirements. While the size of the Maryut Fish Farm is too
large to be classified as a demonstration project, this should be viewed
in the context of the Governmer. 's original intention to develop
aquaculture operations over an area of 30,000 feddan. It may be
legitimately claimed that by its presence, IDA was instrumental in helping
to scale down the project size and thereby avoiding very large, costly
experiments. Nevertheless, given the scarcity of experienced management
and trained manpower to develop intensive fish farming, it appears in
hindsight that a smaller-sized pilot scheme would have been more
appropriate than a 3,100 feddan fish farm. IDA's contribution to the
project through frequent supervision, technical advice on production and
engineering aspects, and effective intervention in resolving disagreements
between the PA and the contractor, has been appreciated by the Borrower.
9.02     In authorizing allocation of credit resources, IDA was responsive
to the needs of the Borrowor, as exemplified by its willingness to allow
the import of needed maintenance equipment for the Maryut complex.
Similarly, in order to promote lending to individual pond operators, IDA
permitted an increase in the size of sub-loans from LE 50,000 to LE
100,000 and utilization of the credit line outside of the four Delta
Governorates. However, as already noted, in the absence of long-term
leasing of lands and a change in the collateral requirement of PBDAC, this
action by itself did not bring about increased commitments to individual
fish farms.



- 10 -
9.03     Weaknesses in IDA's performance resulted from frequent changes in
task managers; during the life of the project there were seven different
task managers. This resulted in a lack of appreciation of all the
problems involved in executing a complex project. While the missions paid
considerable attention to the engineering aspects, the issue of selection
and training of pond operators, and development of an optimum production
program based on results derived from the pilot ponds' operations did not
receive the needed attention. Similarly, technical supervision of the
Jzidividual fish farmer component did not receive adequate attention.
10. Borrower Performance
10.01    The borrower displayed determination and persistence in carrying
out the pro,ect, even under difficult site conditions. Changes in project
design after the credit approval, delays ir, the completion of WND and
operation of drainage pumps, the ambivalence regarding the institutional
arrangements relating to MFFC, difficulties in gaining approval for
issuance of long-term leases to individual pond holders, and disagreements
between the PA, contractors and consultants, were among the factors which
impeded project implementation. Delay in the selection of pond operators,
lack of high level deputies to substitute for the Project Director,
inadequate staffing and reluctance to allow consultants to effectively
supervise the project and provide necessary technical assistance have made
the project vulnerable. In order to improve project performance and
sustainability it is essential to build up the managerial and technical
capabilities of the pond operators, the PA and the MFFC.
11. Prolect Relationship
11.01.     From the project design stage onwards, differences arose
between the Borrower and the Association. Whereas the Borrower wanted to
carry out a substantially large project, the Association was insistent on
scaling down the size of the project. The Borrower was not fully
persuaded by the design adopted by the appraisal mission. As the
Borrower's PCR indicates, the revision of the design proposed by a new
team of consultants was deemed to be superior to the appraisal design.
Similarly, with respect to the pond depth, the disagreement between the
Association and the Borrower persisted until project completion.
Eventually, the Association went along with the Borrower on all these
issues. The relationship between the Project Director and the task
managers in different periods was also somewhat strained. As already
noted, project consultants and contractors too had their differences and
disagreements with the PA. As a consequence, project implementation
suffered discontinuities and delays. The relationship between PBDAC,
which was responsible for implementing the individual fish farmer credit
component, and the PA was weak, if not non-existent. Although provision
was made at appraisal for a coordination committee and for a project
implementation monitoring unit, neither of these bodies functioned in
practice. There was, in effect, no supervisory body, other than the
periodic IDA missions, which were engaged in tracking project execution.
Experience with this project confirms that, in the absence of action to
effectively implement the appraisal report's recommendation on project
monitoring and coordination, project execution suffered significant delays
and problems.



- 11 -
12. Consulting Services:
12.01.     Consultant services at the project preparation stage were not
altogether satisfactory as it was found that the firm was far more
experienced in engineering aspects than in aquaculture development. This
deficiency was remedied when a new joint venture firm was awarded the
consultancy contract during the project implementation phase. The
Borrower was favorably disposed towards the joint venture -- at least
initially -- in view of the initiative displayed by the new venture to
modify the project design and to allow for substantial local participation
in the joint venture consultancy. In due course, however, this
relationship soured and the consultant services were prematurely
terminated. The significant role envisaged for the consultants to provide
technical assistance, training and institution building did not in
practice fully materialize. Notwithstanding the positive evaluation
contained in the Borrower's PCR (see paras 12.01 and 12.02), the
Association is of the view that the PA did not benefit fully by the
presence of the consultants. In this context, the Borrower's PCR is
critical of non-resident consultants and the delays and problems which
ensue from long distance communications. It endorses resident consultants
for technical assistance. The Association supports this observation.
However, it should be noted that effective technical assistance requires
local counterparts to be identified and assigned promptly; also the PA
should allow an adequate role for the resident consultants to perform
their functions. During the period the consultants were on board, there
was adequate reporting on the project's progress.
13. Lessons Learned:
13.01     The main findings and recommendations of the PCR are as follows:
(a) Demonstration projects, such as MFF, need to be modest in
scale, simple in design, and closely monitored during implementation. As
a result of the Association's involvement in project preparation and with
persistent efforts at appraisal, the originally identified project of
30,000 feddans was reduced to 3,100 feddans; yet, the project was still
too large a scheme of its kind. Given the limited implementation capacity
which existed in the sector, the scale of the project proved to be
ambitious.
(b) Lack of adequate analysis of soil mechanics led to unforeseen
risks in construction. When the project was redesigned by the
consultants, neither the problem of uncohesive soils at the project site,
nor the definition of the maximum water level of the adjoining lake, was
fully taken into account. Subsequent problems encountered during
construction and the flooding of the project site which occurred point to
the need for adequate soil and hydrological analysis to be carried out at
the project preparation stage.
(c) The appraisal had assumed an ambitious time-table of 25
months for completion of project civil works. In the event, it took over
55 months for the contractor to carry out a substantial portion of the
infrastructure. The time period allowed for completion of the West
Nubariya Drain was also inadequate. Furthermore, there were delays in the
commissioning of the drainage stations. In general, experience with



- 12 -
projects in Egypt point to the need for caution in this regard by building
in adequate time for contract awards and completion of works.
(d) Enforcement of a fixed price contract for civil works caused
frictions between the contractor and the PA. Unlike the implementation
delays outlined above which could not be foreseen, it was possible to
predict the problems inherent in entering into fixed price contracts,
especially in an inflationary environment. In general, fixed price
contracts for complex civil works should not be undertaken as they run the
risk of interruption.
(e) The respective role of the PA and consultants in provision of
engineering supervision, technical assistance and training should be
clearly defined in order to avoid frictions between the parties. In this
instance, the PA did not allow the consultants to play their role
properly. As a result, the project suffered avoidable delays and
deficiencies. The PA also did not have an adequate cadre of trained
staff. This underscores the need to have not only in-house capability,
but also the need to strengthen the team of the PA staff with consultants
to supervise the works and help solve imp3ementation problems as they
emerge.
(f) Despite the understandings reached during negotiations, the
creation of MFFC proved to be too innovative an approach for this sub-
sector. There were no public sector partners or agencies which wanted to
invest in the project until the infrastructure was in place. While the
appraisal mission was justified in promoting an autonomous MFFC through
the creation of a Law 43 company, the timing envisaged for its setting up
proved to be inappropriate in the Government's mind. In retrospect, it
might have been better had the company been formed either at the very
start of the project or, preferably, when the project went into an
operational phase. Although the MFFC was established recently, its
relationship with the PA is yet to be fully defined; similarly, the role
of the MFFC in relation to the pond owners remains unclear. This is
likely to impact adversely on the project's operation. While the role of
the pond owners vis-a-vis MFFC could be sorted out internally by the
MFFC's Board, the Government should clearly establish the contractual
arrangements between the PA and MFFC in order to ensure the project's
sustainability. In due course, it would be appropriate to transfer the
infrastructure to MFFC and strengthen the MFFC with adequate staff and
maintenance equipment so that it effectively becomes an autonomous service
company.
(g) The system of having a pilot phase before actual project
start up proved useful in demonstrating that the natural food production
in the ponds was inadequate and that feed for tilapia and mullet under a
polyculture system would be necessary. It is, therefore, appropriate to
provide for pilot operations, particularly in the case of such projects
involving untried technology or difficult site conditions.



- 13 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.00  Project Background
1.01  The Maryut Fish Farm (MFF) is the result of a series of efforts and
studies presented by the World Bank (WB) to the Egyptian
government starting with the IDA and FAO/CP mission from June
20th through July gth & September 19th through October 2nd,
1977, including the IDA appraisal mission in April-May 1980. In
December 1980, an o0c!ial mission from the Egyptian govemment
negotiated the WB credit agreement. Egyptian Presidential Decree
No. 538/1981 was issued ratifying the credit agreement and
approving the project. Staff Appraisal Report No. 3114-EGT was
available for official use in January 1981.
1.02  Between October 1977 and January 1981 great efforts were made.
A contract was signed on December 3rd, 1978, with Land and Water
Management Ltd. consultants of England to prepare the feasibility
studies of the Nile-Delta Fish Farms on a total area of about 30.000
feddans out of which, the MFF was selected as phase No. I. The
project implementation was planned to begin in 1981 and to be
completed in 1985. Due to unexpected obstacles and changes in
the designs, the project was actually completed on June 30. 1989
2.00  Project Alms and Objectives
2.01   The primary object of the project was to utilize land and water that
could not be put to better use. Such a goal complies with the
priorities of the govemment's development plans and is in line with
the World Bank's strategy for assisting agricultural development in
Egypt. The site of the project is in Maryut valley, which is about 27
km long and ranges in width from 3.5 to 5 km. It is generaly flat with



14
a small discontinuous ridge along the center and other ridges about
30 meters high along each side. An appropriate part of the floor ot
the valley was covered, up to 1.5 m deep, in very saline water. Much
of the rest was sufficiently wet and saline to make access difficult.
2.02   The MFF is based on a fish culture system whose basic productivity
is generated within its own ecosystem by maximizing the use of
solar energy fixed in the water by nutrients coming from the soil and
fertilization (in the form of phytoplankton, zooplankton, diatoms, etc.)
2.03   The main objectives of the proposed project were: 1) increase
production of fish; low-cost protein source; 2) utilize land and water
resources with little or no alternative use; 3) replace traditional
aquaculture with more modern techniques; 4) increase the incomes
of the rural population and provice greater employment
opportunities; and, 5) contribute to institution-building in the
fisheries sector through technical assistance in all the processes
involved in the chain of fish production. Generally speaking, the
project was intended to serve as a model for future aquaculture
development in Egypt and has potential for wide replication in
areas where soil and water conditions are unsuitable for other
agrcultural use.
3.0    Project's Preliminary Description
3.01   The initial design and description of the project was based on six
main components; 1) establishment of a fish farm covering some
3,100 feddans in the Maryut valley, 2) provision of medium/ long-
term credit for improvement or for establishment of about 100
individual fish farms spread over a total area of about 1800 feddans
in four Delta govemorates; 3) improvement of technical capability
and operations at El Max mullet- fry collection station near
Alexandria; 4) finance of technical assistance, training, extension,
monitoring and evaluation of project; 5) finance a fish marketing
study and project preparation study; and, 6) the project also aimed
at providing the site with all needed equipment.



- 15 -
%.02  The procurem6nt component is to be implemented according to IDA
guidelines and in accordance with Egyptian laws and regulations.
All the civil works of MFF, transport, pumping stations, and spare-
parts were to be tendered under intemational competitive bidding
procedures, while the civil work for the fish farm credit scheme,
housing and try conditioning facilities were to be procured on the
basis of local advertising and competitive bidding procoeures which
are satisfactory to IDA.
3.03  The Maryut Fish Form Initial layout: The initial layout of the
farm consisted of 214 rectangular production ponds and 12
wintering ponds (with total water area of 2440 feddans and 53
feddans respectively), divided into six almost homogeneous blocks,
each of which was between 26 and 38 production ponds and two
wintering ponds. The ponds were to be oriented with their
longitudinal axis approximately NE-SW, which is roughly at a right
angle to the prevailing wind direction, in order to minimize wave
heights and thus bank erosion. Water was to be diverted by gravity
from the West Nubarya Drain (WND) through a main supply canal,
distributed to ponds through six-feeder/drainage channels (one for
each block) and lifted back via a main drain by pumping in WND.
Four pumping units, housed in a masonry structure of conventional
design were suggested for the drainage.
For this particular item, the initial design was left flexible: either to be
electric-driven pumps or diesel-driven axial flow pumps. The
acreage of each production pond was about 12.3 feddans (515 m
long and 100 m wide) with a net water area of 11.4 feddans and an
average water depth of 1-1.2 m. The project initial design also
provided for construction of six field centers (one for each block of
ponds), with office and storage facilities. In addition, a main farm-
center with administration building, soil-water analysis laboratory,
market building, four housing units, storage and repair sheds was
also included. A large component was for construction of family
housing for about 250 pond operators and technicians to be
established in Amerya. The houses were to be small and clustered
in a village with essential infrastructure and some community
fad'ities.



- 16 -
The project was also designed to provido four buses, four station.
wagons, four pickups and 16 motorcycles for staff transport, as well.
as trucks, tractors, portable mobile pumps and miscellaneous
aquaculture, maintenance and office equipment. Construction of a
3.5 km long pipeline to carry treated industrial effluents from the
adjacent Free Tr2de Zone to a point on WND about one km
downstream (i.e. north) of the main canal offtake wa also included
in the design.
3.04  The detailed design phas  of MFF: Duning the second phase,
the review and the detailed designs phase (which also included the
preparation of the tender documents) which were prepared by an
American/French/Egyptian Joint Venture, many changes and
modifications were suggested, discussed with the world Bank/IDA
review missions and the Egyptian staff and Introduced into the
design. A fundamental modification has been made in the projecrs
basic design which called for suppression of one canal and
utilization of the feeder main canal as both feeder and a drain canal.
The feeder and drain canals were separated. The designers of the
initial lay-out did not have a defense of their position for combining
them together in one canal. They justified it by saying that the World
Bank suggested it. These consultants did not appear capable of
evaluating modifications in the basic design and its importance in
the future self management of the farms.
Although the World Bank regulations give priority to the consultants
who made the preliminary designs for completion of the job and
p-eparation of the detailed designs, but in the case of this project, a
new joint venture (American/French/Egyptian) was awarded the job
after a careful and detailed analysis of the offers presented by both
the old and tbe new bidders. The selection of the new joint venture
to carry on the review and the detailed designs (Phase II of the
project) was based on the following: 1) the team and the technical
approach suggested by the new team reflected a balanced mixture
of biological engineedng, manageral and academic experience,



- 17 -
which was felt to be necessary and a basic requirement for the
acOomplishment of Phase II of the project; 2) the manpower offered
by the old consultants was excessive, which reflects
misunderstanding or exaggeration of the work required for phase 11
of the project; 3) the project requires a multi-disciplinary approach
consisting of a combination of fish farming biology and engineering
expertise (the old initial design lacked this approach); 4) Soil
microbiology of the bottom strata of the ponds was never to be a part
of any work in the original studies and designs. However, this
approach was stressed as an important factor in the new joint
venture which won the contract for Phase 11 of the project:;and, 5) In
addition to the aforementioned, the new consultants succeeded in
convincing the Egyptians by coordinating the work carried out in
Egypt and abroad. The total person-months to be executed locally in
Egypt was about 40% of the total person-months for the new joint
venture compared with only 11% for the old consultants' initial
designs.
Changing the consultants, and consequts;tly the designs, was
subject to a great deal of argument and oWcission. For example, a
telex was sent on July 10, 1981                  from the
Agricultural Division Chief of the World BanK in which he stated: *..
Beta: Seriously concemed to leam about rrsJor changes in MFF
layout and design proposed by consultants fn,im scheme appraised
and agreed upon during negotiations. While -'e would have no
objections to such changes emerging as c fesult of detailed
investigations, any major modifications to appro *ed project must be
fully justified in terms of potential cost savings without sacrifice of
aquaculture viability or operational flexibility. Otherwise, IDA will be
extremely reluctant to approve major changes. In particular, as you
know, designs originally proposed by L & W management and
FAO/CP also had such features as separate supply - drainage
channels, stc. as are now being recommended by the new
consultants. However those proposals had to be substantially
modified during appraisal, partly because they were too expensive
and therefore economically non-viable. Therefore, this issue
obviously needs to be resolved before any further work on the new
consultants' proposal, including detailed drawings, is carried out ...



- 18 -
etc." In that telex, it was clear that the World Bank was opposing any
modification or even slight changes in the detailed design phase.
The consultants, on the contrary, insisted on their explanations from
the engineerng points of view.
3.05  A memo was prepared to explain the results of changing the MFF
operational system as follows (from the engineering point of view):
The operational system proposed by the old consultants was to fill
the pond and drain it through one channel to be used both ways, as
a feeder during filling and as a drain during emptying of the ponds.
Each channel serves 40 ponds (20 on either side). Fishing will be
affected alongside the channel. From the local experience in Zawia
fish farm (govemmental fish farm at Kafr El Sheikh Govemorate) It
becomes apparent that this system is neither practical nor
productive.
It is proposed in the new system to fill the ponds directly from the
canal through an inlet. Each pair of ponds is inter related i.e. there
will be an outlet/inlet between the two ponds, and a main outlet to
the drain for each pair of ponds during emptying. As was taken into
consideration during the design, one of each pair of ponds Is
located at a lower level, therefore the filling and emptying of the
lower pond will be effected prior to the higher level pond. This
design was changed again to allow each pond to be filled and
drained separately. Fishing will be carried out by seine nets (130 m
x 2 m, 25 mm. mesh.) The net will be stretched across the width of
the pond (held taut on both sides) and then drawn against the
directional flow of the water, over the whole length of the pond, to
the drain on the opposite side.
Ts's new operational system changes completely the alignment of
the main canal and the drains. The main canal will be fed from
WND at km 5.300 and passes alongside the centre ling of the farm
through the high ridges. Ponds are situated on both sides of the
canal.



- 19 -
In accordance with these changes the following has been carried
out:
* The design of the longitudinal sections and cross sections of
the main canal, and the calculation of the quantities to be
excavated from the water section plus construction of banks.
Also design of the longitudinal sections of the main drains and
their cross sections and calculating the quantities of the
excavation of the water section and the construction of the
banks.
Design of the inlet structure from the main canal, and the outlet
structure to the drains.
Design of the intake of the main canal and the control
structures alongside the canal.
Design of a new siphon passing underneath the main canal to
connect the southem drain to the north drain at the location of
the drainage pumping station.
Design of a tail-escape to the main canal for controlling the
water level in the canal.
From the above design changes it was estimated that the quantities
of earth excavation/filling will be as follows:
hem             Type of Work                          Quantity
No.                                                (cubic meters)
1. Excavation of the main and branch canals and
utilizing usable excavated earth (transported over
200 m.) in the construction of the banks to the
levels shown on the drawings                         56,000



- 20 -
3.06  As a result of changing the operational system mentioned in the ol6i
design report, the new consultants proposed to feed and drain each
pond from its own intake for the main canal.
Due to these changes the following has been studied:
(1)  The alignment of the main canal
(2)  The alignment of the main drain
(3)  The system of feeding and draining the ponds
(4)  The design of ponds
(5)  The optimization of cutting and filling
For these reasons, some field topographical surveys were carvied
out to justify the above-mentioned items and the following was
concluded:
3.061 The Main Canal
By shifting the main canal from the south to the middle of the farm it
will lie on the highest contour levels in the farm. Although the old
proposal was to locate the main canal at the southem part of the
farm, this location lies at contour -2 asl. This new location calls for
excavation of the canal, while the solution for the southem location
was to build up two banks, i.e. the banks were to be constructed
from the filling at a level of 0.87 asl. Therefore the height of the bank
was to be approximately three meters high. This results in a quantity
of fillings of approximately 440,000 m3. Comparing this with the
excavated canal in the middle of the farm it was found that the cross-
section of the canal was as follows:
Bed width       : 4m
Water depth     : 1.8 m
Free board      : 0.5 m
Side slopes     : 2:1
Therefore the quantity of filling was approximately 120,000 m3



- 21 -
That means there was a saving of 300,000 m3 between the filling of
the old design of the canal and the proposed canal by the new
consulants.
In this case, the price of filling will be the same as the price of
cutting, therefore saving in the cost will be the price of 300,000 m3
3.062 The Main Drains
In the old proposal there was a main drain at the northem pat of the
farm. It was noticed that the drain cross-section was to be changed
from the beginning to the pumping station. Although it must not be
changed and it must have the same section all over the total length,
however, the comparison was carried out on an average section
which had the following properties:
Bed width       : 2.35 m
Water depth       1.2 m
Sides slopes      3:1
Therefore the quantity of cutting was approximately 45,000 mr3
Although this drain has 2 banks, and the quantity of filling needed
for the 2 banks is approximately 160,000 m3. The calculations were
considered on the maximum of filling and not on the quantity of
cutting, i.e. the quantity of filling for the main drain was to be
160,000 m3.
In the new design proposal it was necessary to have 2 drains, one
at the south and one at the north. The cross-section of eact, drain
will be as follows:
Bed width         2 mr
Water depth       1.3 m
Sides slopes      2:1
Therefore the quantity of cutting for each drain will be approximately
36,000 m3. Each drain requires two banks of approximately 126,000



- 22 -
m3 of filling. In this case, it was noted that the quantity of filling
Oxceeded the quantity of cutting.
The filling required for the two drains of the new proposed was
about 250,000 m3 The quantity of filling for the two drains exceeded
that of one drain by 90,000 m3.
3.063 F"der and Drains
In old proposal there were six feeder drains. The feeder was also to
be used as a drain. Each feeder drain serves 40 ponds, 20 on each
side. In spite of the difficulty of operation of this system, which was
clearly discussed in the new design operational report, it could be
easily observed that there was a savings in the filling for the
construction of the ponds dikes of about 210,000 m3.
There was an additional savings in the excavation of s - drain
which amounted to 225,000 m3.
3.064 Design of Ponds
In the old proposal the area of each pond is five hectares, and in the
new one the area of each pond is about 2.5 ha (about 5.5 feddans).
However, in the new proposal the water level is more controlled
than in the old proposal. It can be noted from the old one that the
level of the water started from the canal by -1.1 asl to -0.35 asl and
then dropped again to -1.3 asl in the northem part of the farm which
seems to be abnormal. In the new proposal it can easily be seen
that the water level is more controlled and there was little difference
from the canal to the drain except the normal slope of water.
Definitely this affects the stability of the banks, resulting in a savings
in the new design.
3.065 Optimization of Cutting and Filling
In the old proposal the hills were to be removed and used for
levelling of the other ponds. They proposed that the level of cutting
would reach -1.15 asl. The amount of cutting results in 2.17 million



m3. In spite of the necessity of levelling the ponds, the new design
plan will carry out the levelling in a very simple way, according to
the relief of the soil, and at a total amount that reached 1.6 million
m3 of cutting. That means the differencs between the two projets
favors of the new proposal which is less than the old one by about
0.57 million m3.
From the above the following conclusions were reached:
Item                     Qty of Initial Design    Qty of Fina Design
(m3)               (M3)
Main Canal                   440,000              120,000
Main Drains                  160,000              250,000
Feeder Drains                225,000
Optimization of Cutting     2,170.000           1,600.000
4.0    Drainage - Pumping Station
Not only the designs of the MFF were subjected to hard questioning,
but also the Drainage Pumping Station was a matter of discussion
and differences in points of view and negotiations. In the feasibility
studies prepared in Phase 1. the old consufltants reached the
conclusion that a diesel-driven pumping unit would prove more cost
effective and suitable in use. On the other hand, the new
consultants for Phase II proved that the capital cost of the electrically
driven installation including the additional costs of the main supply
was EE 478,000 whereas that for the diesel installation including
diesel generators for lighting was EE 532,000. They also calculated
the total present value including the capital cost, present value of
running expenses over 15-20 years and the present value of capital
replacement, and reported that the cost for the electric driven
pumping station was EE 675,000 while that of the diesel driven
pumping station was E 860,177 a conclusion that gives preference
to the electric driven pumping station.



- 24
5.0   Final Designs of MFF
5.01   During the course of the detailed design phase of MFF, various
discussions were held between the Egyptian authorities and the
consultants who were contracted for Phase 11, and it appeared that
some modifications of the basic initial design should be exocuted.
These points are related to the following:
a) Hydraulic network which was not in conformity with natural
topography of the project area.
b) Inadaptability of the single feeder-drain principle for the
Egyptian conditions.
c) Absolute necessity of independence of each pond, resulting
from the new concept of exploitation based on individual
farmer.
d) Excessive individual income of each farmer in the proposed
11 feddans model (around 4,000 E yearly net incremental
income), this point being unacceptable to the authorities who
would prefer a project which could generate 446 small farms
with an individual annual net incremental income of 2,000 E
instead of 214 farms with a 4,000 E individual annual net
incremental income. This provides an opportunity for more
beneficiaries to take part in the project (at the price and income
level of 1981).
Under such conditions, the consultant was asked of to review the
basic design of the project in terms of:
* better adaptation to the site topography,
- benter basic biohydraulic design and water management,
- greater independence oi each farm operator,
- distribution of revenue to a larger numbtir of beneficiaries
taking in consideration:



- 25 -
- an acceptable retum of the investments,
- no change in the project budget.
With these terms of reference, vahous alternative designs have
been analyzed in comparison with the basic initial design.
In the approach of the consultant, the following basic critera has
been used.
5.02  Adaptation to the Topography and Soils Condition
It appeared to the consultant more logical to follow the natural
topography of the site and thus to establish the main feeder canal
on the high land, and the drain on the low land. Such a modificaton
would reduce the earthworks required for the construction of the
main feeder canal and the pond embankments.
Furthermore, from the final soil geotechnical studies, it was
concluded that the material used in the different embankments can
support a slope of 2/1 instead of 2.5-3/1. Therefore such a slope
permris a large reduction of earthworks.
5.03  Efficient Water Management
Following the experience acquired in Egypt in the exploitation of
Zawiya fish farm and after a detailed analysis of the management
program which should be developed in Maryut, it has been decided
by the authorities to change the single feeder/drain alternative.
Under these conditions, an independent feeder network and an
independent drain network were included in all the altematives
developed.
5.04  Independence of Pond Operation
In the development of alternative designs the desirability for
absolute independence of each pond has been taken into
consideration, with particular attention on the wintering phase which



- 26 -
should be under the direct control of the farmer. The concept of
having a winterng trench in each single pond has been introduced.
5.05  Number of Farmers and Not Incremental Income
In the review of the process and related outline design the
possibility of increasing the number of individual farming operations
has been one of the basic critefia, and weighed Into the altemative
solution which was developed.
5.10  Description of Selocted Alternative
After reviewing various alternative solutions, the consultants
reached a proposal that allows an independent management for
each farmer. The central position of the main feeders also allows a
better distribution of water by gravity. Each pond can have its own
feeders and drain.
The total cost of the project remains within the budget limits, even if
the total length of the pond dike is longer. This is due to the large
savings effected on:
Central feeder        : 200,000 m3 savings
Pond embankment         300,000 m3 savings
Modification of wintering pond    : 75,000 m3 savings
The main characteristic of this proposal is a large reduction of the
pond size to 5.5 feddans. Thus around 446 ponds can be built and
distributed to a large number of beneficiaries.
Also due to the reduction in pond size, the freeboard of safety has
been reduced from 0,50 to 0,40. Furthermore the water level intake
has been fixed at 0.50.



- 7 -
5.11   Analysis ot the Alternative Solution
At first glance it seems astonishing that the proposed altemative
solution leads to savings in some earthworks, in comparison to the
initial design. These savings can be explained as follows:
- Central teeder: In the initial proposal, due to the fact tVat the
canal is located in the low land, the height of the canal banks
was 3.2 i and their width 6 and 4 m. In the central feeder
solution the banks are only 2.5 m high.
- Pond embankment: Again due to the non-adaptation to
topography, the banks of the pond were higher than in the
actual proposed alternative. Furthermore the slope of the drain
bank has been fixed at 2 to 1 following the results of the
geotechnical investigation.
* Modification of wintering pond: In the new solution the
common 12 wintering ponds are changed and replaced by
individual wintering ponds excavated in the production pond
itself, the material being used to build the pond/feeder bank.
On the other hand, one element of the project cost has increased. It
is the cost of construction of hydraulic structures like a regulator
escape pond inlet and outlet.
Table No. 1 gives the breakdown of the element of each altemative
solution.
5.12   Project Cost Analysis
The figures presented hereinafter give the comparison in price of
the various components in initial and final design. Table No.2 gives
the comparison of the hydraulic structures cost.
Table No. 3 permits comparison of the total cost af the project in its
two alternatives, i.e. the initial and final designs. The table shows,



-28 
that in terms ct cost, there are some differences between the varous
alternatives.
5.13  Pond Operator Financial Model
One of the reasons of the required adaptation of tho basic project
design was that the proposed yearly net incremental income for one
farmer was estimated to be around 4,000 EE which represnts an
income 7 to 10 times higher than what an average good fish farmer
can actually achieve in Egypt.  In such conditions, it was
recommended that the consultant adapt the design in a way that
permits the participation of more farmers in the development of the
Maryut project with a view to distrbuting more widely the revenue
generated by the Maryut Fish Farming Project.
The consultants suggested fish ponds of about five feddans as the
unit of the farm and therefore permits to open the project to around
446 beneficiaries will result. Table No. 4 shows that the yearly net
incremental income will be around 1,700 E, which is more in
accordance with general Egyptian conditions.



-29-
Table 1: Companson of Earthworks in Each Solution
ntem                     Initial        Suggested final
Design            Design
(11 feddans)      (5.5 feddans)
(           m3 .
Main channel excavation          120,000            10,650
Main channel embankmAnt filling  420,000           214,704
North drain excavation                              78,620
North drain embankment filling   180,000)           64,220
South drain excavation                              106,140
South drain embankment filling                      60,210
Lateral canal filling                              343,440(2)
Lateral drain excavation         520,000(1)         159,086
Lateral drain embankment filling                   151,065
Pond embankment filling         1 51aL2C    Z     i Q27R o
TOTAL QUANTITY         2,758,000          2,462,320
Number of ponds             214                446
(1)    Lateral Feeder-Drain
(2)    To be taken from winterng pond



-30
Table 2: Comparson of Hydraulic Structure Cost
Initial          Suggested final
Design               Design
Civil Works          No.      Price/EE     No.    Price/CE
Main toeder intakes        1     42.540          1    35.000
Main feeder control regulator   3    45.000(1)   3    45.000
Main feeder tail escape    1      5.000          1      5.000
Seocondary feeders intakes  6     15.542        18    36.000
Secondary feeders falls                         36    36.000
Secondary feeders tail oscape                   18    24.000
Ponds inlet              214    421.644        446   312.200(2)
Pond outlet                                    446   223.000(2)
Secondary drain outlot     a     25.432         18    18.000
555.158              734.200
(1)    Cost not included in Appraisal Report.
(2)    Additional saving of 20% (100,000 EE) would result of prefabricated
structure used.



*                 ~~~~~~- 31 -
Table 3: Comparson of Maryut Project Costs at 1980-1981 Priceus/E
hem                       Initial        Suggested Final
Design             Design
(11 feddans)      (5.5 feddans)
Total earthwork cost(l)         2,398.768          2.464.232
Hydraulic structure cost          555,158            724,200
Utilities and building and pump  1,643,000          1,643,000
Total cost                      4.603.000(2)        4,841,432
Number of farms                      214                 446
Cost of 1 feddan of production surface  1,886          1,973
investment cost per Beneficiaries(2)  21.509          10,855
(1)    Estimated using same unit cost used in Appraisal Report.
(December 1980 base prices)
(2)    Appraisal Report Estimate is 4,704,600
(3)    Excluding equipments. With equipment the investment cost per
beneficiary will be respectively:
27,336             13,661
N.B:  Investment cost per beneficiary is estimated on 1989 prices as
10,873 L per feddan with a total of 5.5 feddan as 59,800 EE.



- 32 -
JJ -
S. 14   LE Comparison of Financial Model for Pond Operator
Item                     Initial        Suggested Final
Design            Design
(11 feddans)      (5.5 feddans)
Gross Output                       14,000              6.600
Farmers Expenses
Fish try                          380                180
Manures                           830                404
Chemical                           80                 38
Ice                               120                 62
Subtotal           1,420                648
Net Operating Income               12,580              5,916
On Farm Deduction by Co.
Equipment operation               443                212
Equipment/works maint.            675                314
Equipment replacement            1,530               734
Others (admin. labour et.)        8a6                425
Sub total          3,534              1,695
Net Income after On Farm Deductions  9,046            4,243
Other cash outflow
Short term debts service          205                 99
Long term debts service           631                303
Equity buy back                  1,827               877
Build-up of Co. Reserves       .Z470                 21.
Sub total          3,133              1,504
Income Foregone and other expenses
incurred by family                1.000(1)           1.000
Net incremental cash inflow        4,913               1.739
(1)    1,000 EE seems to be more realistic than the suggested 2,000 E
used in the appraisal report.



- 33 -
S.15  In summary, the financial model for pond operator (EE) in 1989
prices as presented to the World Bank review mission of July 1989,
shows the following:-
htem                              E
* Investments, one pond             59,800
5.5 Feddan and equipment
- Running - costs
fry                              1,485
fertilizers                        347
feeding                          2,475
marketing                          300
labour                             900
gears                              300
deduction by MFFC for operation,
maintenance and equipment
replacement                      4,000
* Total costs of the pond           69,607
* Total costs per feddan            12,655
The net cash flow was estimated at 3,786 EE in the second year with
successive increase of 8,727 EE in the third year where the
estimated production will reach about one ton per feddan.
Finally, all the parties involved in the subject project, the World
Bank/IDA expert, the projet authorities in the Egyptian side and the
consultants contracted for the detailed design phase-reached an
agreement on the final principles upon which the detailed design
drawings were to be prepared, putting all the above mentioned
arguments and studies into consideration, and the tender
documents were prepared.
At that stage, one can say that the site selection was perfect, the detailed
designs and drawings were ready and resulted from thorough
studies and deep ccnsultations with the Egyptian authorities taking
into account all the surrounding factors and parameters for the
benefit of the project. It seems that the changes made to the project
in terms of its design, size, pond specifications, number of



- 34 -
beneficiaries etc, were necessary and logical. These changes
should lead to the successful implementation and construction ot
the farm and be proven during the life of the work and after the
completion of the subject project.
6.0   The Tender and Bidders
According to IDA regulations, an intemational tender was advertised
and many bids were presented. After careful analysis, the Arab
Contractors won the contract. The Arab Contractors is the biggest
construction and planning contractor in the Middle East (public-
sector). They built the High Dam at Aswan and many of the
infrastructural buildings, roads, bridges and farms all over Egypt and
in much of the Arab World. After few months of work, the Arab
Contractors started to suffer some unexpected problems that badly
affected their performance. One of those problems, which was not
their responsibility, was the delay in the operation of the drainage
pumping station (this factor is the main cause of delays and
subsequent problems). Due to these delays, the work was very
difficult in the wet soil. The unexpected changes in the designs of
the West Nubaria Drain WND (another project financed and
implemented under the supervision of the World Bank/IDA) also
contributed to delays in the MFF, because this drain is the only and
main feeder for the farm. The Ministry of Irrigation did not give
permission, at an appropriate time, to the Arab Contractors to start
working in the main feeder intake structure. Changes in the costs of
building materials, according to Ministerial Decrees, were also
subject of arguments between the project director and the Arab-
Contractors. In April and May 1985, a meeting was held between
tho Arab Contractors, the World Bank/IDA mission and Egyptian
government authorities with the result that most of the problems
were solved, totally or in part. However as a result of financial
problems experienced by the Arab contractors, they withdrew all
their equipment by night. Unsurprisingly enough, this equipment
withdrawal led to the most serious problem ever faced by the
project. A copy of the Deputy Division Chief of Agriculture, Emena
Projects, telex dated October 25, 1985 included in the attachments



- 35 -
hereinafter, gives a clear evaluation of the situation the project had
reached atthat time (Attachment 1).
Of course, the causes of such delays were not foreseeable while
studying the feasibility of the project, and therefore no transactions
were to be made in advance but each problem was expected to be
studied and solved on site and faced with good will, faith and the
desire to find solutions.
7.0   Total Costs Overrun
7.01   From the data presented in Table 1, 2. and 3, it is clear that the
global Maryut project cost on 1980-1981 prices was EE 18.5 million
exclusive of the infrastructure while at the closing date, this figure
has reached about 60 million, including the infrastructure. At the
beginning of the project the US $ were estimated at 0.70 EE while at
the end it value has reached officially 2.56 which is about 4 times
the initial value. The pumping/drainage station was cstimated at a
cost of $2.5 million while actual price was about $5 million. The
same trend was observed for the costs of most items.
All the problems, delays in construction (either by the Arab
Contractors or by the Ministry of Irrigation, as well as the inflation
during the life period of the project, coupled with some necessary
engineering modifications in the project design) resulted in a project
costs overrun estimated at about E 3.6 million. It has been
emphasized that the govemment remained committed to provide for
any cost overruns if savings in other areas cannot be achieved.
8.0    Coordinatlon  Committee  and  Project Implementation
Monitoring Unit (PIMU) Efficiency
The Coordination committee did not hold any meetings and did not
assist in solving any inter-agency conflicts, or to coordinate between
any of them. The PIMU was active for a period of time, between
1981 and 1984, after which this units efforts were vague and diffuse
subsequently, all the decisions were made by the project director
diretly, or in coordination with the World Bank/IDA review missions.



- 36 -
9.0    MFF Pilot Ponds
On April 23, 1984, during the progress of pond construction,a letter
was issued by the Chief Agriculture Division I of the World Bank to
the Egyptian Minister of Agriculture and Food Sufficiency. That
letter, pointed out that, at full development, he MFF will be one of
the largest aquaculture 'acilities of its kind in the world. This fact,
coupled with the need to develop a trained corps of MFF pond
operators, led the World Bank to recommend that the initial phase of
operation at Maryut be carried out on a pilotdemonstratico  dsis,
during which different aspects of production and management could
be tested and modified. An agreement was reached during the
meetings held in Washington D.C. in July, 1984 between the
representative of the project authorities, the consultants and the
World Bank/IDA staff. Among the points agreed upon in that meeting
were the establishment of a pilotdemonstration program at MFF and
the development of the Alexandria Fish Farm (operated by the
Governorate of Alexandria) as a project training site instead of the
Zawiya Fish Farm. This proved to be valuable advice on the part of
the World Bank, since the lessons learnt during the pilot phase
served as the basis for formulation of a realistic operational plan to
guide the MFF's subsequent development. From this pilot farm, it
was concluded that the initial project's aquaculture system based on
utilization of natural food production in the ponds was inadequate.
Feeding with fish feed was concludea to be essential for the Tilapia
and mullet fish suggested for the polyculture system. It was also
advised, as a result of the runs done on the pilot pond, to introduce
both the fresh or brackish water shrimp (macrobrancium) and the
salt water shrimp (Japonicus) in the polyculture system applied at
the MFF.
10.0 Individual Fish Farmer Credit
As mentioned before, the project included a provision for
medium/long term loans to about 100 individual fish farms located in



- 37 -
four Delta Governorates (Kafr El Sheikh, Behera, Sharkia and
Damietta). Additionally, assistance in constructing new ponds or
deepening the existing ponds to an average of I m depth (the
already existing depths of which are about 30 cm) along with
building a storage shed and wintering ponds, installation of pump
and other waterwcontrol facilities and purchase of a small pick-up for
transport and services was requeated. This component was to be
administered by the Principal Bank for Development and
Agricultural Credit (PBDAC) through its existing bmnch network in
those govemorates. The PBDAC asked to increase the number of
governorates benefitting from this project and the World Bank
approved. However only about 25% of the Egyptian pounds
allocated for this were actually distributed (EE 400,000) The main
reason for this inefficiency of implementation is that PBDAC added
the conditions that loans be given only to fish farm owners. The
official ownership documents have to be delivered to the bank to
guarantee the loan. Most of the already existing fish farms operate
on a rental basis, either from the General Authority for Fish
Resources Development (GAFRD) or from the Land Reclamation
Authority (LRA).
1J.0  Improvement of El-Max Fry Collection Station
14.01 As the mullet fry are very delicate, the survival rates in the already
existing collection centers in Egypt are in the range of 10%-20%.
So, transporting mullet fry from the Port Said, Damietta or Rasheed
collection centers was not considered practical for the MFF.
Improvement of El Max station, which is about 10 km from the
project site, seemed reasonable to assure a good source of fry
needed for t01e project. After thorough investigation, it was decided
to cancel this component and to depend primarily on collecting the
fry with suspension fry nets (widely used in Southeast Asia) from the
area surrounding the outlet of the WND with the Mediterranean Sea.
This area was found to attract fry because of the changes in the
ecological conditions after the WND started to pour off its drainage
into the sea. It was also noticed that during the lry-collection season,
the fry move freely in the WND against the water stream. and



-38-
consequently, the well-trained technicians started to collect them
mostly in the fingerling stage of maturity near the main feeder intake.
11.02 More recently, the National Aoricufture Research Project, (NARP),
the Egyptian Ministry of Agriculture and the US Agency for
Intemational Development, have started a sub-project for artificially
hatching the mullet fish and designing a prototype for a hatchery at
an initial size of 500,000 fry per season. The seleted site to
establish this prototype hatchery was to be in the location of MFF.
The presence of this prototype will help in providing the Maryut
project with the needed mullet fry. For the Tilapia fish, a national
project to artificially hatch the Tilapia under plastic houses to
produce 200 million fry in order to supply the MFF with all its needs
and also to sell the mono-sex and the red Tillapia fries to the fish
farmers has also started on the same MFF site.
12.0  Technical Assistance for Training, Extonsion, Monitoring
and Evaluation.
12.01 Technical assistance was suggested for this project to cover many
fields: the first was to.train a core of aquaculture technicians who
could be employed within subject-project. The training was to be
either abroad or in-country. Also, training for the PBDAC staff for the
fish farm project appraisal, business planning and budgeting were
included. The project also included services and technical
assistance for the construction supervision, aquaculture
engineering, economics, credit appraisal and other special topics as
needed. In addition the technical assistance component also offered
consufting services for setting up effective extension services in the
governorates covered by the project's credit scheme, as well as
consultancy to design and implement the project monitoring and
evaluation system.
12.02 The project management has completely benefitted from this
component most of the estimated budget was well used and the
staffing and training of MFF company staff and pond operators is
fully adequate.



- 39 -
13.0  Studies
13.01 As said before, the project included a component for the finance of
two studies. The first was on fish marketing while the second was on
project preparation. Neither was carried out in spite of the fact that
this subject was matter of discussion between the World Bank
reviewal missions and the project director. However, a study wa
carried out on the micro flora and micro fauna present at the MFF
site and their expected role in biological roactions in the fish ponds.
This study wa financed under the detailed designs phm contract
(Phase 11) with the American/French consultants. The budget-item
allocated for the two cancelled studies was then transferred to the
procurement component where it was used to buy maintenance
equipment.
13.02 $ 500,000 in foreign exchange was utilized for financing consultant
services in preparation of the project feasibility studies and was not
included in the technical assistance but was allocated, along with
another half million U.S.$ to detailed engineering designs and
preparation of the tender documents, in the budget item of the total
costs of the MFF.
14.0  Procurement of Equipment
14.01 The agreed list of equipment and works to be procured for the
project and given in the appraisal report is markedly changed. All
the civil works were carried out and most of the consultancy budgets
were consumed. However, considerable amounts of the transport
equipment called for were cancelled. The remainder was used to
buy heavy equipment also needed for the project, such as
maintenance of fish ponds, as well as roads, feeder canals, and
drainage channels. A telefax was sent from the project director to
the Deputy Minister of Agriculture indicating that the project
authorities had already consumed 100% of the total budget of the
project while only 25% ot the budget item allocated for farmers
credit was utilized. Table 4 clearly show the equipment bought and
presently used in the MFF.



- 40 -
Table 4: Comparison Between the List of Equipment Designed in the
Appraisal with Additional Purchases by the Project.
htem                       Appraisal              Actual
suggestion            purchase
Pumps                        14                     16
exclusive of the drainage
pumping station
-Tractors                     6                      13
- Trucks                      3                       4
- Trucks                                              4
- Station wagon               4                       2
- Pickups (light)             10                     20
- Pickups (heavy duty)         1
-Buses (16 -20 passenger)      4                      6
- Buses (40 passenger)                                2
- Buses (50 passenger)                                4
- Sludge lorry                 1
- Ditch cleaner                1
- Motorcycles                 16
- Amphibious excavator                                2
- Amphibious excavator         -                      2
- Crawler excavator                                   2
- Swamp bulldozer                                     3
- Bulldozer                                           2
-Motor Grader                                         1
- Vibratory compactor                                 1
- Wheel loaders                                       2
- Fork Uft                                            1
-Trailer                                              1
- Ice Manufacturing units                             5
-500 KVA Generators                                   2
- 100 KVA Generators                                  3



- 41 -
15.0 Maryut Fish Form Company MFFC
15.01 The Egyptian authorities and World Bank agreed that after the
completion of the first two blocks of production ponds and related
infrastructure, the Egyptian authortty would hand over responsibility
for their commercial operation and management to the Maryut Fish
Farm Company (MFFC). This new body is a joint stock company to
be established under law No. 43/1974 that allows companies to
operate along private enterprise lines with freedom from public
sector regulations in product pricng, employee compensation, and
profit distribution policies. Although the plan called for establishment
of that company by June 30,1982, the Presidential Decree was
actually issued on 1989. Up till this moment, there are still
negotiations to convince the Govemment of Egypt to bear the cost of
infrastructure. The company itself would function as a service
organization responsible for inputs purchase, marketing,
aquaculture advice and guidance, operation/maintenance of
hydraulic structures and common facilities and arranging short term
credit from the PBDAC and other banks. In-order to perform these
functions the MFFC'S policies should be guided by a board of
directors in addition to professional staff for day to day management.
In the appraisal, a full description is present for the system to be
followed for using the pond income to buy back shares from the
Govemment and the PBDAC, as well as the way to eradicate poor
performance.
15.02 The intemal by-laws gives the company management the authority
to operate along private enterprse lines, regardless of the actual
stock ownership. As a result, the company is freed from restrictive
public sector regulations and may establish compensation
packages which attract and retain qualified personnel, and lower
constraints on investment and project distribution polices. An
authorized accountant was appointed to oversee finances. The
general conditions for selection of the beneficiaries according to the
appraisal report were declared and a committee was chosen to
review the applications acoording to the approved criteria.



- 42 -
15.03 The time envisaged in the project appraisal report for the
establishment of the MFFC was not approprate. The state councils
of Egypt have reviewed and approved the intempl by-laws of thb
company, but the high authorities did not approve issuance of tie
decree establishing the company until after the completion of farm
construction. The delay in creation of MFFC did not affect the
implementation of the construction work.
16.0  November 5 S988, the President of Egypt antended a colebration
declaring the completion of the construction work of the MFF, and
the 30 th of June 1989 was set as the closing date of the project by
the World Bank. The period elapsed between these two dates was
used for the Arab contractors to withdraw their equipment and
personnel, the closing of the delayed bills and claims and for
shifting the spares in different budget items towards supporting the
project with the needed heavy equipment for maintenance and
expansion in the future
17.0  The Worid Bank and IDA have contributed greatly to institution
building in Egypt via their assistance in the fish farm project. The
MFF project is an successful example and serves as a model for
future aquacufture development in Egypt. It has potential for wide
replication in areas where soil and water conditions are unsuitable
for other agricultural use, both in Egypt and else where in the world.
18.0  Conclusions and Lessons Learned
18.01 The principal lesson which can be learned from the experience
gained In implementing this project is that adequate investigation
and design work should be completed prior to appraisal. The
involvement of local experts and authorities will save much time and
effort in the future. This would lead to better understanding, as well
as a spirit of cooperation and appreciation of the complex problems
may emerge during implementation.



- 43 -
18.02 Although considerable problems have been faced in completion of
the MFF, they resulted in local enginears gaining considerable
experience and know-how in carrying out construction work under
particularly difficult soil conditions. The management capabilities
gained by the team working in the different phases of the project is
another benefit that should not be overlooked..
18.03 As for the technical assistanc component, the problems betwen
the project authorities and the consultants were mainly due to the
lack of confidence between the two paries. This lack of confidence
may be attributed to the different explanations of the World BankWIDA
guidelines conceming the mobilization paid in advance. Thus in the
future, clear cut instructions along with reviewal meetings and
training should be an integral pan of the project.
18.04 The delays in the implementation of the West Nubarya Drain,
another project sponsored by the World Bank/IDA under the
umbrella of the Ministry of Irrigation were reflected in the MFF
project.
18.5  The decision to include within the project a sizable component fish
farmers' credit with the PBDAC has created a problem for the project
management, because most of the existing private fish farms are
operated on a rental basis, while the PBDAC insists on keeping the
ownership document to guarantee its rghts. Therefore, either the
law and borrowing regulations should be changed, or the budget
funds specified for this line item should be transferred towards
another more controlled activity.
18.6  It is preferable to depend on resident consultants for technical
assistance except for locally unavailable fields. Considerable
delays occurred because of correspondence from non - resident
consultants. Problems arose in communications between
correspondents in France and the US.
18.7  The supervision and reviewal missions from the World Bank/IDA
expert have helped the progress in the project especially in some
critical times (like the cases in which the Arab Contractors withdrew



- 44 -
their equipment, and the problem of design change of the WND by
the Ministry of Irrigation). The composition of the missions was
technically strong. Constructive dialogue took place with the
constriction contractors and supervisors and creative suggestions
were offered by these missions. The regular visits of the missions,
supplied justification for extension of the closing date to June 30,
1 a89.
18.08 The delays in implementation resulted in cost over-runs because of
inflation (local and international) as well as the unpredictable
government transactions and ministerial decrees. The physical
contingency item should thus be increased to at least 15% of the
total costs.
18.09 To encourage the pnvate sector to get involved in the MFFC and
also to support employment opportunities for youth, it is advisable
that tne government should bear the infrastructure costs (drainage
pumps station, electricity, roads, potable water etc.) in order to lower
the costs to a reasonable level.
18.10 The benefits gained from the implementation experience of the
project will be multiplied by establishing new farms. The site near
by MFF can be used to expand the project up to at least 30,000
feddans. Following some topographic studies and slight
modifications, the main designs can be duplicated.



Attachment 1
4 5_
9235B UPEHC UN
VBK WASH T3XE
.C2C lgTSI?2C MAIS1971
REF : EMPAI
32' 92356,
-DR. YEHIA NASSAN. CIIAIRMAN
-GENERAL AUT1iORITY FOR FISH RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT (GCFRD)
-MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FOOD SECURITY
-DOKKI. CA!,OD EGYPT
WASHINGlTON DC 25-OCT-e5
ADDRESSED H. E. DR. YOUSSEF AMIN WALLY, DEPUTY PRIME flINtISTER ANC
MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE AND FOOD SECURITY. DR. ERFAN A. SHAFEY.
FIRST UNDERSECRETARY. MINISTRY OF fLANNING AND INTERNATIONAL
COOPERATI!N, DR. YEHIA HASSAN, CHAIRMAN, GAFRD. AND DR. SHAWKI F.
BARDISSI. PROJECT D!RECTOR. FISH FARM PROJECT.  RE FISH FARMING
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT CREDIT lll-EGt AND THE RECENT VISIT OF MR.
'IDAR IN SEPTEMBER.
Am WE ylSH! TO BRING TO YOUR EXCELLENCY'S ATTENTION THE FOLLOYING
FROBLEMS CONFRONTING THE COMPLETIO!t OF THE MARYUT FISH FARM
PROJECT.  Y ARE PERTURBED TD,NQTE THAT THE PROJECT CONTRACTORS DID
NOT KEEP THEIR PART OF !'E AGREEMENT REACHED IN MAY TO PRO;EED WITH
CONSTRUCTION AS SCHIEDULED. BUT !NSTEAD WITITDREW  ALL THEIR EOUIPMENT
-.ll PERSONNEL FROM THE FROJECT S!T! ON AUGU!ST 21. 1985 ALLEGING
THAt Tl1EIR BIELLS WERE NOT PAID ON TIME.DURING A MEETING ON
SEPTEMBER 28 BETWEEN ENu. UASSAEALLAH. CHAIRMAN OF ARAB
C ::0ACTORS, AND MR. BADDAR. AN AGREEMENT WAS RCACHED WHEREBY ARAD
CONTRACtORS WOLD SUDMIT A REPORT GIVING A DETAILED TIMETABLE OF
PROJECT COHPLETION E;LiMERATING ECLIPLIENT AND PERSONNEL IN ORDER TO
COMPLETE CONSTRUCTION WITHINI THE FOLLOWING TIELVE MONTHS.  THE ONLY
ALTERNATIVE tO TIIIS ACTION WOULD BE FOR ARA9 COItRACTORS TO
WITHDRAW FRO1  THE CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT IN WHICH CASE THE TERMS OF
THE ORIGINAL AGREEMENT DICTATE TilAT ANOTHER CONTRACTOR WOULD BE
SELECTED TO COMPLETE TNE WORK AT ARAB CONTRACIOPS' EXPENSE.  WE
TRUST THAT ARA5 CCNTDRAt!'JRS dLD kH;OR THEIR AGREEMENT AS FURTHIER
DELAYS AI1D tJE RESULTLIN  C^St DVERR'NS WOULD DEVIOUSLY NECESSITATE
AREEXAMINATION OF PROJECT VIABILITY.
*Rll THE PROBLEM OF THE ELIMINATION .F THE :UTFALL wEI1 FROM THE
WEST N"3ARYIA DRAIN DESISN AND T.E L!KELIiCOD 'F SEA wATER
INTRUSIDN INTO THE FPC!EC! AREA U. b    e BEE4 RESOLVED
SATISFACTORILY.  ALtHCOUIH ASSURANCES 6ERE GIVEN BY THE DRAINAGE
AUTHORITY THAT THIS ROSSIGI ITY IS iEM6TE, WE HAVE REDUESTED THII
CHAIRMAN OF ;AtOD ID LSE tMlS  .SI  FFORTS  IN SEEKING Atl ANSWER AND
PROPOSING TIIE PROfER SOLUTION TO THIS PROBLEM.
CCC.  dUJR EXOELLENOY WILL APPREC!ATr OUR SERIOUS CONCERN WITH THE
tSOVE PRALEMS AN;  THEIR INPIAT wON tE VIABILITY OF THIS FROJECT.
FOR T1HS PURfOSE WE ARE NOU TIGA FOLLOiRUP MISSION TO VISIt ETuFT
IN EARLY NOVEMBER COMPOSED OF ri1. BADCAR OMISSION LEADER) AND NP.
VAN.r'ANALAK OF THE BANK A;OD TO CONSULTANTS:  MR. ANDERSON
(AL'ACtLtLTRE SPECIALIST) AND MR. VAN DER TUIN (HYDRAULICS EXPER1).
tHE MISSICN WOULD BEGIN THEIR WORK BY MEETING wITH DR. TEHIA HASSAN
AND HIS COLLEAGUES ON THE MORNING OF NOVEMBER 6 AND WOULD BRIEF Yr
OF THEIR FINDINGS AND RECOMMEhDATIONS BEFORE LEAVING EGYPT.
REGARDS.  tlILLAIRA!JA'i  DEP.'Y Ny!SION CHIEF, AGRICULTURE 1. EMENt
PROJECtS
* IC252357
NNN;N



- 46 -
Table 1
PART III: SUMMARY STATISTICAL DATA
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit Number                  Title                             Year of Approval            Status
1.  CR  181                  Nile Delta Drainage I                          1970                  Closed
2.  CR  393                   Upper Egvpt Drainage I                        1973                   Closed
3   LN 1276                   Fruits & Vegetables                           1976                  Closed
4.  LN 1235 & CR 637          Upper Egypt Drainage II                       1976                  Closed
5.  LN 1439-40 & CR 719    Nile Delta Drainage II                           1977                  Closed
6.  CR  830                   Agr:cultural Development                      1978                  Closed
7.  CR  988                   First AgroIndustries Project                  1980                   :losed
8.  CR 1083                   New Land Development Project                  1981                  On-going
9.  LN 2243                   Second Agrolndustries Project                 1983                  On-going
10. LN 2561                   Agriculture Development Project II            1985                  On-going
11. LN 2270                   Irr  Pumping Station Reh. Project I           1983                  On-going
12. LP 2562                   Drainage V Project                            1985                  On-going
13. LN 2732                   Charrel Maintenance                           1986                  On-Going
14. LN 3198                   Irr. Pumping Stations Roh. Project II         1990                   On-going



-47_                                                tabe 2
PMoCn tII*OLE
Iti                     1|  Dote Pluvied         I      Date Revised       I      Date Aetul
* Nocomaissonce                                           |*6/20-7/9/1977
Identification                                                                           9/19.2/10/19"7
F Pottow*up                            Jan/Nor. 1978
(Executive Project Summary)                                                                      1979/80
Preprstion (FAO-CP)                       Late 1978                                        11/10-29/1979
Preappraisal                                          {March 1980
- Appraisal Mission                       March 1979                Feb. 1980              AprilI/ay 1960'/
- Credit Negotiations                Oct.20*24, 1980                                        Doc.8t2, 1980
- Board Approval                                                                            N j  | arch 17, 1981
- Credit Signature                                                                          A April 24, 1981
- Credit Effectiveness                      July 1981           Aug. 24, 1981                Jan. 25. 1982
- Project Copptetion                   Dec. 31,  9S             Dec. 31, 1987                Dec. 31, l9t9
- Credit Closing                     DeceZer 31 1986   j      June 30, 1989              June 30, 198  /
_ __      _            __                       __                    I   __
1/ Appraisal Mission Members: Messrs. A. Zulfiqar (IDA)
Y. Tang (IDA)
J. WUcbis (IDA)
M. Malik (Consultant)
2/ Partially completed.
3/ Final disbursement made on March 8, 1990, and SDR 1.88 million was cncelled.
Crments:
(a)    ldentificstion
IDA and FAO/CP joint mission in July and September-October 1977 had originally identified a
project covering some 30,000 feddan (1 feddmn a 0.42 ha.) of Land in the Delta for fish forming.
(b)    Preoar&tion
Consultants to the Goverromnt in 1979 inspected nearly 150,000 feddbn, carried out reconnaissance
survey on 35,000 feddam, and prepared designs for eventual developwmnt of saw 14,350 faddon for
fish farming. However, IDA, in coordination with FAO/CP, proposed area of about 5,000 feddan,
which was accepted by the goverment.
(c)    Maryut fish Form design
The initial layout of the form, designed by Land * Water Management eonsultant (approved by IDA)
was subsequently changed on recinmenWdtion of new consultants KNBS-AS-DCE.



- 48 -
Table 3
Loan/Credit Disbursement
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursed
(US$ in million)
Ori1inal A,mt:  MS  11 a*.111e   (U. 14 mLilJim  - UatMoiLcal GqWivle.00)
Finencial    AppraLsel              Actual Disbursements            Percent             Actual 2
Yoar        Estimates                                           Disbursed               of
SDR             Historical                          Appraisal
(in million)   USS Equivalent          SDR              EstLmates
1981              0.8               0.70               0.79           6.32             100.01
1982              2.2               0.67               0.99           7.9S              45.02
1983              5.4               1.36               1.52            12.41            28.11
1964              9.1               3.04               3. 25           27.62            35.72
1985             12.3               4.59               4.78            41.72            36.9S
1986             14.0               6.44               6.63            58.52            46.82
1987              --                7.06               7.62            64.22            54.41
1068              _                 7.57               6.28            66.91            59.1S
109S              __                7.63               8.61            71.21            61.52
1990        :                       9.12              1025 tI         82.91            73.21
balance as on 03/08/90              1.68 121           2.45
&inmnte: The credit -as cinitted in SDR. US dollars figures are historical equivalenc.
M11 At conversion reto of: SDR 1.00 * USS 1.230, historical average over the life of the project.
121 Undisbursed balance of SDR 1.882 M was cancellod effective March S. 1990.



- 9                          Page Y o2
PROJECT IMFPLNsT%TION
Appraisal             Actual (or
Indicators                      Est'mate              PCR Estimate)
1. Establishment of                     15 Sep. 1981           Established,
Coordination Committee               January 1982(R)       November, 1982.
2. Establishment of PIMU
(Project Implementation &                                  Established,
Monitoring Unit)                                           1st Quarter, 1982.
3. Maryut Fish Farm
a). Selection of Consultants         1st Quarter, 1981    Selected
December 1980.
b). Gross Area                       1300 Hectares          1425 Hectares
Net Water Area                   1024 Hectares         1030 Hectares
c). Construction
i) The Main Canal               440,000 m3            120,000 m3
ii) The Main Drain                160,000 m3           250,000 ml
iii) Feeder & Drain                225,000 m3
iv) Pond Size                     5 hectares            2.5 hectares
(11 feddans)          (5.5 feddans)
v) Number of farms               214 ponds             446 ponds
vi) Individual income
to be generated by
pond operators.              4000 LE/Year           2000 LE/Year
vii) Housing for Pond
operators                     250                   No housing has
been constructed
for pond operators.
d). Selection & Training                                   Partially done.
Pond operators                 2nd Quarter, 1983       Expected full comp-
letion by Sept.1990
e). Establishment of
Maryut Fish Farming Co.         30 June, 1982          Februry, 1989
4. Individual fish Farmer              Allocated              Only 25S disbursed.
Credit Scheme                       SDR 2,200,000          PBDAC requirement:
SDR 1,988,110 (R)      Official ownership
documents. Most
fish farmers
operate on leased
land (don't have
ownership).
Cont. on next page



Cont. Project Implementation
Table 4
- 50 -                    Page 2 of 2
Appraisal           Actual (or
Indicators                     Estimate            PCR Estimate)
5. El-Max Fry Collection Station
a). Design & construction    4th Quarter, 1981 -1    Cancelled. Fry is
b). Procurement of Equip.    1st Quarter, 1982          collected from WND
c). Consultancy Services      3rd Quarter, 1981         outlet to
Mediterranean sea.
6. Studies
a). Fish Market Study         2nd Quarter. 1982         Cancelled. The Fish
b). Project preparation                            |   Market study was
Study                     2nd Quarter, 1982        undertaken as part
of a comprehensive
study of all fresh
food marketing
which was financed
under Cr. 998-ECT.



Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(US$ Miltion)
Appraisal Estimates            I            Revised Estimates                            Actual Disbursed
Local        Foreign         TOTAL           tocal        Foreign   |   TOTAL       |    Local       Foreign [1]   TOTAL
Exchange                                    Exchange                                   Exchange
Civil Works
Maryut Fish Farm
El-fex Station                1         6.20            4.1           10.30                         4.10                                        3.60
EI-Zaueya Training Center                                                                                                                 I
Individual Fish farm Credit                                                                                                                 I
Sub-loan             1.40            2.7            4.10                         2.51                                       0.60
uli
Nwchinary & Equipments                     0.46            2.3           2.76                          3.94                                       331      j
Consultancy Services                       0.40           2.0            2.40                         2.00                                        1.40
fellowships                                               0.8            0.80                         0.45                                       0.45
Project Preperation advance                                1.0           1.00                          1.00                                      0.89    I
Unallocated                         j     3.88             1.1           4.98                    .        :  -
_                         ___I~~~~~~~~~~1. 2.4__T _4+0
TOTAL                              j    12.34            14.0           26.34          19.30         14.00          33.30          23.0         10.25         33.3
Comments:   The credit was comitted in SOR. US Dollar figures are historical equivalence.                                                                                         -I
[1): At conversion rate of: SOR 1.00   USS 1.12, historical average over the life of project.
*            tn~~~U



- 52 _
Table 5 (b)
B. Project Financing
(US$ Million)
Planned
Loan/Credit                      Estimated
Source             Agreement  %       Revised       Final       X
- IBRD/IDA
Expenditure
Categories           14.0      53%       14.0         10.3     33%
- Co-Financing
Institutions          .                   .
- Other External
Sources                .                  .            ..
- Domestic
Government           9.7      37%                1
PBDAC                1.4       6%       19.3     J  23.0      67%
Beneficiaries        1.2       4%   -
TOTAL                    26.3               33.3         33.3
Comments:  Cr.1lll EGT was committed in SDR. Domestic Expenditure was
in LE (Egyptian Pound). US$ figures are historical
equivalence. Because of substantial cost overruns, credit
disbursements contributed only 33% of total project cost
(53% estimated at appraisal). At the Borrower's request,
the IDA credit was reallocated using the unallocated funds
and transfers between different catagories; about SDR 1.88
million was cancelled.



- 53 _
Table 6(a)
PROJECT RESULTS
A. Production & Yield per feddan
Future with                Estimated
Without     project                   at full
project   (Appraisal)   Actual        development
Maryut Fish Farm               0       1.05 tons    500 Kgs       1400 Kgs
Credit Component
a. Existing Fish Farm
Improvement    350 Kgs      900 Kgs       N.A.        900 Kgs
b. New construction          0         900 Kgs       N.A.        900 Kgs



REPULIlC 0F EGIPI
FISH FARNING KtVLOPIIEIIT PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Maryut Fish Farm
1 99C-
TIIR:                                     1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1981    1968   1989    1990    1993    1992   1393    1994    1995    209
Nwher of Ponds In Operation                                                                                  222     333     333      444     444     444     444
Tons Sold:                                                                                                    89     917   1,465   2.381   2.141   3.115   3.419
REVEUWS                                                                                                      528   5.812   8.718  14.16?  16.346  18.869  20.342
OPERATING COSTS
Seeds
fert I I ltiers:
Nanure
TSP
Urea
Feed
Haui Ilabor
faily Wabor
Nanhagi.  etc.
Other Costs
-----------_ ----------- ---------------------------- s
Total Operating Costs                                                                                      S.328   .992   1.992  10.656  10.656  10.656  10.656
Operating Cash                                                                                            14.800) (2.180)    726   3.511  S.690   8.233   9.686
IUNSTNENTS                              10.610   4.670  13.513  11.762  12.376   4.025   2.234   1.099   3.552   3.5S2                                511
Net Besbefits                          (10.610) (4.610)(13.533)11j1.62)(12.316) (4.025) (2.234) (1.099) (8.352) (S.132)    726   3.SII   S.690   1.656   9.686
Econuic Rate of letmrn           5.32
Guess Range                         I01



- 55 -
PILE MANE, PIENPAI                                                 .Table  6(c)
11109/90                                     ARAB REPUILIC OF .IGYPT?
P12w PA"INIG OEVELOPNENT PROJECT
.....................................................-
Prolected Cash Flows for a Fish Farm at Maryut
Financed under the Credit Lime
......... ...................
.~~~~~~~~~. 
Paerm Size im Peddans:       5
tLC)
Year:                                         1        2       3        4       5        6       7        a        9      10        11
Yields (Kg/Feddn)                                    400     600      900   1,200   1,200   1.400   1400   1,400   1,400    1,400
X
Product MN x
...........
Tilapia                   70X
Carp
Capittu                    15X
MuLtet                     15K
Total t00
Total Proctian (Kg)
,.....................
Tit pla                                            1,540   2,310   3,465   4,620   4,620   5,390   5,390   5,390   5,390    5,390
Carp                                                   0        0       0       0        a       0        0        0        0        0
Capitau                                              330     495      743     990      990   1,155   1,155   1,15S  1,155    1,155
Mu lee                                               330     495      743     990      990   1,155   1,155   1,155   1,155    1,155
..............  .......   .......... .......   .......... .......   .......... .......   .......... ....... ........... ...... ... ...... ^...... ...
Totat                                             2,200   3,300   4,950   6,600   6,600   7,r700   7,7oo  7r,0o   7700    7,700
Was Revasti           LI/Kg
*.*.........         .......
Tilapia                 5.50                      8,470  12,705  19,058  25,410  25,410  29,645  29,645  29,645  29,645   29,645
Carp                                                   0        0       0       0        0       0        0        0       0         0
Capiteau                6.00                       1,980   2,970   4,455   5,940   5,940   6,930   6,930   6,930   6,930    6,930
Mullet                  8.00                       2,640   3,960   5,940   7,920   7,920   9,240   9,240   9,240   9,240    9,240
total                                            13,090  19,635  29,453  39,220  39,270  45,815  45,815  45,815  45,815   45,815
.......    .......    .......    .......... .......    .......... .......    .......... .......   ......... ....................................
Operating CastS
...............
*o. '000
Fish Fry             LI/,0OOIPFddan
........             ........... ....... ..........
Titapia                    7n     2.0                825     825      82      825       2s     82S      825      85      8s        825
Carp                              1.0                  0        0       0       0        0       0        0        0       0         0
Capiteau                  150     1.0                825     8s       825      25      825     82       825      t25     8s5      8a5
mutlet                    300     0.8              1,238   1,238   1,238   1,238   1,238&   1,238   1,238   1,23    1,238    1,238
l.... .. ... .. .. .... ..  ...28     28   2....... 8.... 2 8... 2,    ....28 .  ....2 8 .  ....28 
Totat Fish Fry                                    2 U           2   2g Z,UJ     2,      aa a,S     2,"  2,S   a,U      2 ,U    2,



_ 56 -
Table 6(c)
Page 2 of 2
(LI)
Year:                                       1          2     3       *      .5                       a 7      9      10       11
Fertiitzer           LU/Ton    Tonr
,~~~~~~~~~~~~. . .                     .......   .......   ......     .......   .......   ... .... ... ......  ....
Cow "anure              160   0.600               704       4      70      704      04     704'     704    704      704      70'
Chickon Manure           40   0.500               110      110     110     110     110     110     110      110     10      110
TSP                     425   0.400               935     935     935      935     935     935     935     935     93S       935
Ure                     280   0.100               840      640     154     154     154     154     154      154     154      154
Totat Fertftlxer                                2,569   2,589   1.903   1,9903  1,03   1,903   1,903   1,903   1,903    1,903
Feed                 LE/Ton    Toms
Pellets                 340   2.500               850     850      850     850     850     850     850     850      850      850
gram                    140   4.000               560     5606     0 0     560     560     560     560     560      560      560
Fishleal              1,000   4.000             *,000   4,000   *,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000    4,000
Total Feed                                      5,410   5,410   5,410   5,410   50 5,   5,410 54410   5,410   5,410    5,410
Labeor              LU/Year    Mo.
Narvesting Labor        300       S              , 500   1,500   1,500   1,500   1,500   1,500   1,500   1,500   1,500    1,500
Manager               3,000        1            3,000   3,000   3,000   3,000   3,000   3,000   3,000   3,000   3.000    3.000
Pond Guardfan         1,500        1            1,500   1,500   1,500   1,500   1,500   1.500   1,500   1,500   1.500    1,500
Uorkers               1,200       2             2,400   2,400   2,400   2,400   2,400   2,400   2,400   2,400   2,400    2.400
Totat labor                                     8,400   8, 400    ,400   8,400   8,400   8,400   8,400   8,400   8,400    8,400
Power                                             500      500     500     500     S00     500     500     500      500      500
marketing Cost                                    200     200      200     200     200     200     200     200      200      200
aintenance                                      4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000    4,000
Total Operating Costs                          23,987  23,987  93,301  23,301  23,301  23,301  23,301  23,301  23,301   23,301
cash  low From Opration                       (10,897) (4,352) 6,152  15,970  15,970  22,515  22,515  22,515  22,515  22,515
Invetnt Costs    LE/Pddan
,  .......................   .........
Lard                  4,000            22,000                                                                            c22,000)
Cfvil Works           2,500            13,750
Equipant. bats                            Soo
Puma                        6.000                                            6,000
ContaIners                  1,000                            1,000                            1,000
Mets                          300                              300                              300
Small Truk                              ?,500                                            7,500
Working Capitl                          3,9M9                                                                             (3,99)
Total InvestRnt Cost                   55,048       0       0        0   1,300       0  13,500       0   1,300        0  (25,98)
.....................    ...................    ..................  ........   .....................................  .......   .......   .......    ..........    .......
Net Cash Flow                         C55,048)(10,897) (4,352)  6,152  14,670  15,970   9,015  22,515  21,215  22,515   48.512
Financial Rate of Returml                12.4X
Guess Range                                20X



Table 7
Page 1 of 2
TABLE OF COVENANTS
Credit Agreement                         Deadline for
Covenant                                  comDliance            Status
3.03 (a) Establishment of Project
Implementation & Monitoring
Unit (PIMU).                                          Complied
3.03 (c) Establishment of Coordinat-                            Complied, but
ion Committee.                   15 Sep. 1981         with delay.
31 Jan. 1982(R)      April, 1982
3.05     All necessary measures to
to ensure adequate supply
of electricity & potable                              Complied
water for MFFP.                                       promptly.
3.08 (a)(iii) Each subloan shall not                           Complied with
exceed the equivalent of                              revision.
(A) 50,000 Egyptian Pounds,                           Revised:
representing not more than                            (A) 100,000 CE
(B) 80%. of the estimated cost                        (B) 70%
of project.
3.08 (a)(iv) Establishment of             30 Sep. 1981          Complied, with
Fisheries credit coordination  28 Feb. 1982 (R)    delay.
unit by PBDAC.                                        May, 1984
3.09 (a) Terms of Reference for the       30 Sep. 1981          Both studies
Fish marketing study & the                            cancelled at
Project preparation study.                            Government
(b) Complete the Fish Marketing    30 Sep. 1982           request.
study.                                                Allocated budget
transferred to
the procurement
component.
3.10     Authorization for State land   30 Sep. 1981           Not complied.
leasing (lyrs) & sale.          30 Apr. 1982 (R)
30 Apr. 1983 (R)
3.11     Submit Fellowship program.       31 July 1981         Complied, but
10 Aprl 1982 (R)    with delay.
31 Dec. 1982 (R)    November 1983
4.01 (b) MOA and PBDAC to furnish         Annually, not        Complied, with
Annual Statements of Project   later than six         delay.
funds and Expenditure.          months after
the end of each
fiscal year.
4.02 (a) Forward baseline survey &        31 Dec. 1981
Monitoring & Evaluation          30 June 1982 (R)    Not complied.
System.                         31 Mar. 1983 (R)



- 58 -                           Table 7
Page 2 of 2
Deadline for
Covenant                                  compliance            Status
4.02 (c) Quarterly and annual                                    Complied,
progress report                  31 Dec. 1982          February 1983
onwards.
4.04 'c) Establishment of MFFC,            30 June 1982         Established by
under arrangements               (or such date         Prestidential
satisfactory to IDA.             agreed in light      Decree of
of progress of       Feb. 27, 1989.
construction work).
Sched.2, Annex (2)
(a) Submit aquaculture/              30 Sep. 1981          Complied, with
training program.                10 Aprl.1982 (R)    delay.
30 Dec. 1982 (R)    November 1983.
(b) Appoint Training                 30 Sep. 1981          Complied, with
supervisor.                      31 Dec. 1981 (R)    delay.
November, 1982
(c) Appoint Extension                30 Sep. 1981          Complied, with
supervisor.                      31 Dec. 1981 (R)    delay.
November, 1982
(d) PBDAC to provide IDA
with a standard form             30 Sep. 1981          Complied with
of loan contract for             30 Apr. 1982(R)       delay.
Project Subloans.                                     June 1982.
Sched.2, Annex (5)
PBDAC shall provide
IDA, for approval, the                                Complied.
ten sub-loan applications.
Sched.2, Annex (6)
(a) Appoint construction             30 Sep. 1981         Appointed:
supervisor                       07 Jan. 1982 (R)    January 1982
(b) Appoint Aquaculturist/           31 Dec. 1982          Not complied.
pond management advisor.
(c) Appoint Consultants for          30 Apr. 1982 (R)    Complied,
Monitoring & Evaluation.                              June, 1982.
(d)  Appoint consultants for          30 July, 1982         Complied,
for mullet fry collection,                            August 1982,
training, extension & fish                            except for Proj.
marketing & project prepa-                             Proj. Prepr.
ration study.                                         Study.
(cancelled)
*(R): Revised



- 59 -
Table 8
Studies
Purpose as defined at                     Impact of
Studies                       Appraisal                 Status       Study
Fish Marketing Study   In-depth review of market
prices, systems, facilities,
and   organization  for
transportation,  marketing
and   processing in  the
fisheries sector, including
relative role of public and
private sector and the
effects   of  government
intervention in pricing,
procurement, etc. Recommend
on investments in facilities
and   adjustment  in
organization, procedure,
regulations, and goverrment
policies to maximize
efficiency and resource
allocation.                    CANCELLED       None
Project Preparation    a). To strengthen USAR
Study                   capabilities for project
identification and
preparation.
b). To strengthen PBDAC
subproject appraisals in
the agricultural sector.       CANCELLED       None
Comments: The Fish Market study was undertaken as part of a comprehensive
study of all fresh food marketing which was financed under Cr. 998-EGT.



- 60-
Table 9
USE OF BANK RESOURCES
MISSION DATA
Stage of             Month/          No. of         Days in                              Perf. Status        Type of
Project Cycle        Year            Persons        Field       Specialization           Rating              Problem
Throuah Aooraisal
April/May 1980      4/77               1                       Div. Cheif, EMPA4
6/77 IDA          2             10         Aq. Sp., E               Reconnaissance
9/77 FAO-CP       4             14         E, FE, Aq. Sp., Eng.   Identification
2/78 FAO-CP & WS 2               7         E, Eng.
5/78 FAO-CP       1              5         Eng.
6/78              2              7         Eng., Loan Officer.    Preparation
1/79              1              2         E
4/79 FAO          2              5         E, Connultcnt            PreparatiOn
4/79 IDA          1              9         E                        Preparation
5/79 FAO-CP       2              6         Eng., FE                 Preparation
9/79 FAO/WB       2             10         Trg.,Irr.Eng.
11/79 FAO-CP/      5(full-time) 20          FE, E, Eng. Trg, E,    Preparation
World Bank  2(part time)             Cr., TrD, Wtr.
3/80              6             15         E, FA, FE,               Preappraisal
Eng., Aq. Sp., M&E,
E & H
4/80              4             21         E, Aq. Sp., FA,          Appraisal
Eng.
Board Aooroval
March 17, 1981
Board Approval
to Effectiveness
January 25, 1982      3/81               2             21       E., FA                   Review recant deelonp ts.
SuDerviSion           6/81               1              4       E                              1                 T
12/81              3              6       E. Eng., Aq.Sp.                2                 T.O,C,N
6/82              3              7        E, Aq.Sp., Trg.               2                 T,N
11/82              3              5       E, Eng.. Aq.Sp.                2                 N,J
10/83              3              5       E, Eng., A                     3                 T,f
3/84              4             11       E, FE, Eng., A                 3                 N,F,T
8/84              2              5       E, FE                          3                 M,F,T
11/84              1             10       Eng.                           3                 N,F,T
5/85              2             10       FA, Eno.                       3                 N,F,T
9/85              1             1I       FA                             3                  ,F,T
11/85              4             13       FA, Eng.,Aq.Sp.,Eng.           3                 N,F,T
2/86              2             14       FA, Eng.                       3                 M,F,T
6/86              2              9       FA, Aq.Sp.                     3                 N,F,T
2/87              1             17       FA,                            3                 M,F,T,O
9/87              2              3       FA, Eng.                       4                 M,T,F,O
3/88              3              7       FA, Eno., Aq.Sp.               4                 M,T,O,F
12/88              2              7       E.,Irr.Eng.                   4                  N,T,O,.
6/89              1              2       FA                             4                 N,T,O,F
11/89              3              7       FA, E, FE                     4                  M,O,F,T
List of Abbreviations:
A  * Agriculturist                       Trg  a Treining Exp.                T  * Technical
E  a Economist                           Ops  * Operations Officer           0  a Operatlonal
Eng  * Engineer                              Cr  * Credit Specialist           C  * Construction
FA  * Financial Analyst                   TrD  * Tropical Disease Spec.    N  * Managment
FE  * Fisheries Expert                    wtr  * water Ouality Spec.          F  s Financi1l
Aq.Sp.  a Aqucutture Specialist                                                   P  * ProcurgWnt
MIE  a Monitoring & Evaluation Exp.
E&M  aEnvirorment * Health Spec.



