Document of              FILE 
The World Bank                 ruE .r
FOR OFFICIAL UJS ONLY
Report No. P-2958-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 19, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Egyptian Pound (LE) = US$1.43
1 US Dollar           - LE 0.70
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
COMECON - Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
FMC     - Fish Marketing Corporation
GDP     - Gross Domestic Product
CNP     - Gross National Product
GODE    - Gulf Organization for the Development of Egypt
MFFC    - Maryut Fish Farming Company
M+LT    - Medium and Long Term
PBDAC   - Principal Bank for Development and
Agricultural Credit
PIMU    - Project Implementation Unit
USAR    - Undersecretariat for Aquatic Resources



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Government
Beneficiaries;          Ministry of Agriculture and the Principal Bank for
Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC)
Amount:                 SDRs 11.0 million (about US$14 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard IDA
Relending Terms;        Government would on-lend to PBDAC SDRs 2.4 million
(about US$3.1 million equivalent) of the credit for a
period of 15 years, including 3 years' grace period,
at an interest rate of 3 percent per annum.
Sub-loans by PBDAC would be at 6 percent interest.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description;   The project is a five year demonstration program of
commercial fish farming on both a large and small
scale, utilizing drainage water and land with no
better alternative use. Components include: (a)
establishment of fish farm facilities on about 3,100
feddans at Maryut, including construction of ponds,
water supply and drain canals, pump station, an
effluent pipeline, housing and other infrastructure,
and provision of transport and operational equipment,
and about 11 manyears of consultant services; (b)
provision of medium/long-term credits for improvement
or establishment (including civil works and
equipment) of about 100 individual fish farms on a
total of some 1,800 feddans in four governorates in
the Nile Delta; (c) improvements to an existing
mullet fry collection station, and provision of 4
manmonths of consultant services; (d) provision of
additional facilities, equipment and about two and
one-half manyears of consultant services for fish
farm management training, plus 24 manyears of
fellowships and 6 manyears of short-term training
abroad; (e) programs for strengthening extension
services and monitoring and evaluation, including
provision of equipment and 1 manyear of consultant
services; and (f) a fish marketing study and a
project preparation study, including the provision of
about four and one-half manyears of consultant
services.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Benefits and Risks;    The project would contribute an incremental annual
output of about 3,800 tons of fresh fish, valued at
about SDRs 4.5 million (US $5.9 million equivalent),
enabling an equivalent substitution for imports and
possible foreign exchange savings over the project
life of about SDRs 63.8 million (US$83 million
equivalent). Some 10-20 percent of these
quantifiable benefits would accrue to beneficiaries
in the relative pQverty target group. Institution
building benefits would result from demonstration of
improved technology and organization, preparation of
additional projects under a well-planned and
consistent strategy, and policy changes allowing more
rational resource allocation in the sector. Project
risks (delayed or faulty construction, and possible
operating failures due to the large project size at
Maryut) are substantial, but would be minimized by
adequate management/supervision, decentralized
organization, individual incentives, technical
assistance and training.
Estimated Cost:
% of
US$ Million              Project
Local      Foreign  Total       Base Cost
Maryut Fish Farm a/                 5.3             6.0   11.3          58.9
Worker Housing                      0.6            0.4    1.0            5.5
Effluent Pipeline                   0.1            0.2    0.3            1.7
Individual Credit Scheme            1.5            2.1    3.6           18.9
Mullet Fry Collection               0.1             0.1    0.2           1.1
Training Programs                   0.2             1.2    1.4           7.1
Extension Services                  0.1            0.1    0.2            1.2
Monitoring & Evaluation             0.1             0.1    0.2           1.0
Studies                             0.1            0.5    0.6            3.0
Project Administration              0.2            0.1    0.3            1.6
Base Cost                           8.3            10.8   19.1         100.0
Physical Contingencies              1.0             1.0    2.0          10.6
Price Contingencies                 3.0             2.2    5.2          27.0
Total Project Cost b/              12.3            14.0   26.3
a/ Includes US$1 million already approved under the Project Preparation
Facility, of which US$500,000 assisted in financing the project
feasibility study.
b/Cost estimates include about $1.8 million of taxes and duties.



Financing Plan;
US$ Million
Local      Foreign  Total         %
IDA a/                               --           14.0   14.0       53.2
PBDAC                                1.4           --      1.4       5.3
Beneficiaries                        1.2           --      1.2       4.6
Government                           9.7           --      9.7      36.9
Total                               12.3          14.0   26.3      100.0
a/  The total proposed IDA credit includes $1 million already approved under
the Project Preparation Facility (of which $500,000 has already been
utilized for financing the project feasibility study).
b/ IDA's share of total cost net of taxes and duties is 57 percent.
Estimated Disbursements;
Ust Million
FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86
Annual                              0.8    1.4    3.2    3.7    3.2    1.7
Cumulative                          0.8    2.2    5.4    9.1   12.3   14.0
Rate of Return;                     21 percent (excluding studies, training,
extension, housing, and fry collection),
and 16 percent including all components.
Staff Appraisal Report;             "Arab Republic of Egypt -- Fish Farming
Development Project" (No. 3114-EGT), dated
January 28, 1980.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Arab Republic of Egypt for SDRs 11.0 million
(about US$14 million equivalent) to help finance the foreign exchange cost
of a fish farming development project. The development credit would have
standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A report on "Recent Economic Developments and External Capital
Requirements" (SecM80-933) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
December 24, 1980. Country data sheets reflecting the recently updated and
revised national accounts are attached.
The Open-Door Strategy
3.       After more than a decade of inward-looking and centralist economic
policies, economic trends in Egypt have been influenced strongly since the
mid-1970's by the "open-door" strategy enunciated by President Sadat in
October 1973 and approved in a national referendum in May 1974. The
declared aim of this strategy has been to accelerate economic development
through the adoption of more outward-looking policies and greater emphasis
on the role of private investment. Specifically, the strategy envisages (i)
a gradual dismantling of government regulations and restrictions on private
economic activity; (ii) greater decentralization of decision-making in
state-owned enterprises; (iii) the attraction of foreign capital; and (iv)
expanded economic cooperation with other countries. Substantial inflows of
external assistance are considered essential to support the strategy.
1/ Part I is virtually identical to Part I of the recent President's Report
for the New Land Development Project, which was distributed to the
Executive Directors on November 25, 1980.



- 2 -
4.       To implement the open-door strategy the government has taken a
number of specific policy actions. Among the more important ones were the
gradual devaluation of the Egyptian pound and the concurrent liberaliza-
tion of foreign exchange regulations. Starting in 1973 when the parallel
market rate was introduced, Egypt's currency has been effectively devalued
by 44 percent from US$2.56 to US$1.43 per pound. Exchange restrictions
were eased; specific import allocations were replaced by general import
quotas; and more foreign exchange was made available to both the public and
private sector. A new investment law (1974, amended in 1977) offered
attractive incentives to foreign firms. Trade agreements, especially with
the EEC, opened new markets for export products; at the same time,
bilateral trade with COMECON countries was much reduced. A debt management
unit, which was established in the Central Bank, became operative in
mid-1978.
5.       In accordance with the objective of greater decentralization, the
autonomy of public enterprises has been somewhat strengthened, especially
by a new law issued in 1978 which grants greater flexibility to individual
enterprises in (i) setting up organizational structures; (ii) introducing
material incentives; (iii) establishing productivity related wage scales;
(iv) adjusting the work force to production requirements; and (v) undertak-
ing some investments from their own resources. Interest rates (except for
the agricultural sector) have been raised several times and now stand at 11
to 13 percent for lending (to the non-government sector) and 6 to 9 percent
for term deposits. Provincial authority to undertake regional development
programs has also been expanded. Central bureaucratic control remains
strong, however, over most investment and pricing decisions. Effective
decentralization can only be achieved within the framework of a relative
price system reflecting economic costs of production. The slow pace of
price reform constitutes a major obstacle to greater decentralization.
Impact of the "Open-Door" Strategy
6.       The open-door strategy and subsequent policy actions, combined
with a favorable external environment and the growth of domestic petroleum
production, have yielded impressive results. Above all, they have led to a
rapid increase in Egypt's foreign exchange earnings which rose from $1.4
billion in 1973 to $7.1 billion in 1979. During this period, oil exports,
workers' remittances, the Suez Canal and tourism emerged as major new
sources of foreign exchange. This was accompanied by a major shift of
agricultural and industrial exports from COMECON countries to the hard
currency area. In addition, the government managed to attract large
amounts of foreign assistance. Gross inflows of medium- and long-term
capital averaged $3.3 billion per annum during 1975-79, compared with an
average of only $0.6 billion during 1967-72. The bulk of these aid flows
came from Arab and western donors and were provided at highly concessional
terms.
7.       Increased foreign exchange earnings and foreign aid inflows have
resulted in a consolidation of Egypt's external debt and have strengthened



- 3 -
the country's creditworthiness.  While short-term credits owed by the
government to commercial banks peaked at $1.4 billion at the end of 1976,
they were reduced to $443 million at the end of 1978, largely with the help
of long-term loans granted by the Gulf Organization for the Development of
Egypt (GODE). During the same period substantial arrears in debt payments,
which had built up in previous years, were cleared. These changes have
solved the pressing liquidity problems that threatened Egypt's financial
position in 1975 and 1976. Favorable terms of new borrowings have also
eased the burden of the country's medium- and long-term debt. Although
Egypt's total medium- and long-term public debt increased sharply during
recent years--from $2.1 billion at the end of 1973 to an estimated $12.6
billion in June 1980--the debt service ratio declined from 33 percent to
about 20 percent during the same period. This reflects not only more
favorable credit terms--i.e., lower interest rates and longer maturities--
but also the rapid increase in foreign exchange earnings.
8.       The increased availability of foreign exchange from Egypt's own
exports of goods and services and from external assistance has allowed much
higher levels of imports. This in turn paved the way for a rapid-increase
of investment, larger domestic consumption, and a better utilization of
existing production capacities. Imports of goods and services (excluding
interest payments) rose from about $2.0 billion in 1973 to $7.8 billion in
1979; imports of capital goods increased at an even faster rate. Increased
availability of foreign exchange enabled greater imports of raw materials,
intermediate goods--including fertilizer and pesticides--and spare parts,
thus breaking crucial bottlenecks that had constrained local production.
Together with investments in new capacities and the vigorous expansion of
services such as trade, tourism and shipping, these developments sharply
accelerated the rate of economic growth.
9.       The Ministry of Planning estimates that GDP at constant prices
rose at an average rate of close to 8 percent per annum during 1974-1979.
Much of the growth was concentrated in petroleum, construction, manufactur-
ing, transport and public utilities. Agricultural production, however,
increased only slowly (about 1.5 percent per annum). The growth rate of
GNP was even higher, about 8.6 percent per annum, because of the massive
growth in workers' remittances from $189 million in 1974 to $2.2 billion in
1979. The higher level of economic activity together with large-scale
labor migration to neighboring oil exporting countries has absorbed much of
the excess labor force that existed in the early 1970s. In fact, short-
ages of skilled labor have occurred in a number of occupations, especially
in the construction sector.
10.      Egypt's investment rate (investment/GNP) increased from about 18
percent in 1974 to about 30 percent on average in the 1976-79 period. This
increase was made possible by the substantial contribution of foreign
savings as well as the rapid growth in national savings. The latter
increased from 7 percent of GNP in 1974 to more than 20 percent in 1979,
largely reflecting the rise in remittance income. The domestic savings
rate, however, while showing some growth since 1974, financed less than



- 4 -
a quarter of investment in the 1974-79 period. A major cause for this
inadequate level of domestic savings was the continuously low and often
negative savings generated by the consolidated government budget. During
1974-79, the current budget showed a small surplus in only two out of six
years. This was the result of high defense and security expenditures,
large consumer subsidies, fast growing interest payments and low financial
rates of return generated by public enterprises excluding the Suez Canal
Authority and the Petroleum Corporation. The result has been a continuous
shortage of domestic savings which has slowed down the implementation of
investment projects and led to inflationary financing practices in the
public sector.
Recent Economic Developments
11.      The last two years mark the emergence of the petroleum sector as
the dominant sector in the Egyptian economy. Production of crude oil is at
present averaging close to 650,000 barrels a day. After the 1979 round of
increases in the world price of oil, Egyptian oil exports doubled in
value. In 1980 Egypt's export revenues from crude petroleum and refined
products will be close to $2.7 billion compared to $800 million in 1978.
The share of the petroleum sector in GDP has risen from less than 3 percent
in the early 1970's to 8 percent in 1978 and is estimated at 22 percent in
1980. Moreover, profit transfers and other taxes from the petroleum sector
will provide an estimated 30 percent of government revenue in 1980. It
must be stressed, however, that present production levels reflect very high
production to reserve ratios and that maintenance of these production
levels after the mid-1980's would require more new discoveries. Domestic
consumption is growing very rapidly so that the size of the exportable
surplus may be difficult to maintain. It is hoped that recently discovered
national gas fields prove to be large enough and can be developed rapidly
enough to release sufficient quantities of petroleum for export. It is
also very important that efforts to increase production of energy are
complemented by measures designed to achieve more efficient domestic use of
energy. In this context more appropriate energy pricing is of crucial
importance. Bank financed studies on petroleum product pricing and natural
gas use are currently underway and should form the basis for a
comprehensive reform of energy use and pricing policies.
12.      Reflecting the sharp increase in petroleum revenues and also the
higher tariffs for Suez Canal traffic, Egypt's foreign exchange earnings
continued to grow rapidly in 1979 and 1980. At $1.5 billion, the current
account deficit in 1979 was lower in relation to GDP (8.9 percent) than
in any year since 1973. Medium and long-term capital inflows declined
somewhat when compared to the level realized in 1978 ($3.1 billion compared
to $3.4 billion) reflecting the cessation of cash inflows from GODE ($500
million in 1978) and a drastic decline in bilateral disbursements from Arab
sources (about $70 million in 1979 compared to about $300 million in
1978). This reduction was partly compensated for by a significant increase
in direct foreign investment ($710 million in 1979 compared to $387 million
in 1978) and an increase in non-Arab bilateral and multilateral aid flows.



As a result, in 1979 the basic balance (current account plus net MLT capi-
tal flows) showed a surplus ($598 million) and there has been a significant
increase in the level of foreign exchange reserves. Estimates for 1980
indicate another surplus year for the basic balance, with petro- leum
revenues at about $2.7 billion, Suez Canal earnings close to $750 million
and gross MLT capital flows reaching $3.7 billion, significantly higher
than in 1979.
13.      Reforms in exchange rate and investment incentive policies have
contributed significantly to the recent improvements in the balance of pay-
ments. The current account and the trade balance remain weak, however, and
in the mid-1980's Egypt will have to deal with substantial debt-service
payments. Longer-term prospects depend on Egypt's ability to improve her
trade balance. In the absence of major new petroleum discoveries, this
will require more efficient use of domestic energy resources, growth in
manufactured exports and a moderation in import growth. Continued care
must be taken, therefore, to keep incentives appropriate and to choose
investment projects taking account of their long-term impact on the balance
of payments.
14.      The domestic fiscal situation and the inflationary pressures it
has generated remain an area of major concern. After 1978, inflation,
reaching 20 percent for the first time in decades, has created considerable
social tension. In the summer of 1980 a major reorganization of the gov-
ernment was announced by President Sadat, including wide ranging economic
measures to redress a deteriorating social climate. Most of these measures
mark a pause in the process of liberalization and rationalization of the
price system. The prices of some commodities and services supplied by the
public sector have actually been reduced, subsidies have been increased and
there has been an across the board increase in wages and salaries. Import
duties have been lowered on a wide range of producer and consumer goods.
The recent increases in the fiscal contribution of the petroleum sector as
well as increased revenues from the enlarged Suez Canal, may momentarily
balance these increased subsidies and public expenditures. But the under-
lying public sector resource equilibrium remains precarious. A better sys-
tem for targeting subsidies and a sweeping rationalization of public sector
pricing policies are preconditions for any long-term improvement in the
fiscal situation. Moreover, without such an improvement, it will not be
possible to control inflationary pressures and resulting social problems.
Recognizing the challenge posed by future trends, the government has
announced plans for tax reform and a reform of public sector financing
practices. A new National Investment Bank is to supervise and finance all
public sector investment projects with the objective of economizing
resources and speeding up the implementation of projects. It has also been
announced that a new expenditure tax will attempt to compensate for the
very low level of revenues from direct income taxes.



-6-
Development Potential and Constraints
15.      Egypt has considerable potential for continued rapid development.
The reasons for this are, in brief; a large domestic market, a relatively
skilled and literate population, an agricultural resource base not yet
fully developed, varied raw materials (including oil and gas), and a key
geographical location. Future economic growth may come less easily, how-
ever, than during the past years. The gradual need to substitute domestic
for foreign savings will become more pressing as net foreign contributions
decline in relation to GNP. Capacities are now strained in a number of
sectors, including infrastructure. The expansion of new capacities has
been slowed down by administrative inefficiency, inadequate fiscal
resources and weakness in national coordination and sector programming.
Managerial effectiveness in public enterprises and financial incentives for
production are often inadequate. Higher levels of economic activity
together with labor emigration have led to shortages in critical profes-
sional and technical skills. Educational facilities in Egypt still reflect
a non-technical bias and their quality needs to be upgraded.
16.      Another key issue is population.  Already very large for Egypt's
limited living space--about 42 million in mid-1980 with an average density
exceeding 1,300 per square kilometer of agricultural land--the population
has grown at a rate of about 2.5 percent per annum in the 1970's, adding
almost one million people every year. Moreover, almost half of this
increase is concentrated in the greater Cairo area alone. This continues
to create great pressures on resources for consumption and investment and
aggravates the employment problem in the longer run. In the past years the
government has made a new commitment to direct action on population
matters. While it has already initiated a more aggressive program (e.g.,
by introducing an intensified home visiting program under the second IDA
financed population project), it will take considerable time to achieve
measurable results in fertility reduction.
17.      A serious side effect of recent inflation appears to have been a
deterioration in the relative distribution of income and a growing dis-
parity in consumption levels. Although inequality and the incidence of
absolute poverty is no worse in Egypt than in most economies at similar
income levels, continued inflation and lack of progress in more effective
taxation of high income groups could lead to serious social problems.
18.      To maintain the momentum of development and to meet the challenges
of the future, major efforts are required to overcome the structural con-
straints cited above. Specifically, action is needed to (i) increase the
efficiency of government administration through organization and procedural
modifications and selective changes in salary structures; (ii) increase
real domestic savings through an effective mobilization of domestic
resources and fiscal reform; (iii) pursue a vigorous and balanced program
to upgrade the country's physical infrastructure; (iv) adopt urban and
rural strategies aimed at decentralizing urban growth and economic oppor-
tunities; (v) develop a coordinated export promotion policy and finally



(vi) strengthen the general use of prices as meaningful indicators of
relative scarcities. There is an ongoing dialogue on all these important
issues between the Egyptian authorities and the Bank. They have also been
the focus of discussions among the members of the Consultative Group for
Egypt.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
19.      Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed as of June 30, 1980 was estimated at about $12.6 billion.
Bilateral loans comprised about 7.9 billion or about 63 percent of the debt
outstanding while the shares of multilateral credit and suppliers' credit
were about 22 and 9 percent respectively, with the remainder being held by
financial institutions. Major creditors were the USA and Gulf Organization
for the Development of Egypt (GODE), followed by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and
the Federal Republic of Germany. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about six percent
of the total disbursed debt. Debt service on medium- and long-term debt is
estimated at about $1.8 billion in 1980 giving a debt service ratio of
about 20 percent.
20.      If progress towards overcoming structural constraints can be
achieved and the country's foreign exchange earning potential realized, the
deficit on the current account can be kept at about 12 percent of GDP on
average. The required capital inflows are large--but if they continue to
be available on concessional terms, Egypt would have the debt servicing
capacity to borrow the amounts envisaged, including a limited amount on
harder terms. The burden of servicing medium- and long-term debt as a
percentage of total foreign exchange earnings is estimated to fluctuate
between 20 and 25 percent over the next 5 years.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT _/
21.      The proposed credit would be the World Bank's fifty-fifth lending
operation. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970 to
$2010.6 million. Through these operations, the Bank Group has assisted in
the development of the agriculture, industry, power and energy, population,
transportation, telecommunications, tourism, urban and education sectors.
Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans and IDA credits as of December
31, 1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
1/ This section is substantially unchanged from the corresponding part of
the President's Report for the New Land Development Project (P2910-EGT)
which was distributed to the Board on November 25, 1980.



- 8 -
22.      The Bank has tailored its response to Egypt's basic structural
problems in a very broad fashion and in close cooperation with other
donors. Its strategy involves entry into a broad spectrum of sectors in
order to provide not only direct finance with its relatively limited
resources but, equally, to act as a catalyst for other bilateral and
multilateral agencies, and as a spur for initiating discussion and positive
action on a coherent framework of policies and investment proposals which
can tackle the substantive issues. The approach also includes delivery of
technical assistance, not only for adequate implementation of specific
investment programs but for developing the domestic institutional
capability to articulate and implement future policies and investment
programs. The Bank's deliberately broad multisectoral intervention has
been differentiated by sectors and tailored to the pace at which the
Egyptian authorities can reasonably be expected to address these issues and
implement the programs.
23.      Industry, which has been over the past five years the sector
receiving the largest portion of Bank resources and significant attention,
illustrates the nature and scope of the Bank's intervention. The govern-
ment looks upon rapid industrialization as a means to stimulate growth of
the economy, create productive employment, cater to basic consumer needs,
and generate an "export surplus". However, this sector is beset by complex
problems which stem largely from the rigidity of centralized control and
lack of management autonomy, distorted pricing, and the lack of incentives
for more efficient production. Efforts under Bank financed projects have
gone beyond the immediate objective of improving capacity utilization
(Imports loans and credits Nos. Cr. 524, Ln. 1062 and Ln. 1456) and in-
creasing production capacity and supply of essential commodities in
resource-based industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and fertilizer
projects). The more fundamental effort has been directed at introducing
policy and structural improvements. Towards this end, the Bank is assist-
ing the government in reviewing the planning apparatus and strengthening
sectoral planning and project preparation and implementation capabilities
with the objective of formulating an industrial strategy and plan for the
1980's. It has also financed six subsector studies in textiles, building
materials, pulp and paper, food processing, metallurgy, and engineering
industries, in order to assist the government in formulating a package of
policy and investment proposals, which are also embodied in our projects.
Two subsectors, textiles and steel, are planned for further study with a
view to developing specific recommendations about some of the major issues
facing public enterprises in Egypt, such as those relating to employment,
wages, prices, profit retention and the relationship to the private
sector. To complement these efforts the Bank has also carried out a study
on small-scale industries. Finally, the Bank is assisting the government
in a comprehensive study of the construction/contracting industry, which is
one of the major bottlenecks facing Egyptian industry today.
24.      The illustrative sketch provided above of the scope and breadth of
the Bank's intervention in one sector is representative of the multifaceted
approach that it has adopted in varying degrees in the entire spectrum of



- 9 -
the Egyptian economy. It is a role that is in harmony not only with the
Egyptian Government's wishes hut is welcomed by the various bilateral and
multilateral donors as an appropriate function for the Bank as the Chairman
of the Consultative Group. Preparation of projects for future lending fol-
lows this strategy, and the pipeline includes projects in education, gas
development, rural and urban development, population and nutrition, trans-
portation, water supply, agriculture (including drainage), development
finance and industry.
25.      Bank Group disbursements in 1980 represent about 13 percent of
Egypt's medium-and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of
total external debt outstanding and disbursed were about 3.2 percent and
2.4 percent, respectively, as of June 30, 1980. For the future, the Bank
and IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding
military debts) are estimated to reach about 5.5 and 3.5 percent
respectively in 1981. It is estimated that in 1981, debt service payments
due to the Bank and IDA will represent about 2.3 percent and 0.2 percent,
respectively, of service payments due on Egypt's external debt.
26.       IFC participation and lending for projects in Egypt now total
about $74 million and include: a ceramics project (approved in 1976); a
ready-made garment project (1977); a project for an agricultural complex
primarily for sugar beet (1978); a poultry project (1979); a fish farming
project (1979); a building material project (1980); and a tourism project
(1980). IFC is discussing several other private sector and joint venture
projects.
PART III -- THE FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR
Fisheries in the Economy
27.      Agriculture continues to be the largest sector in the Egyptian
economy, generating about 23 percent of the GDP, about 40 percent of total
employment, and, directly and indirectly, 70 percent of non-oil export
earnings. However, growth in productivity has been constrained by limited
arable land, rising water tables and increasing soil salinity,
institutional weaknesses, and government policy interventions (maintaining
low producer prices and input price-supply controls). Although the
fisheries sub-sector contributes only about one percent of agricultural
GDP, it provides primary income and employment to an estimated 100,000
fishermen (about three percent of total agricultural employment) and, in
addition, seasonal or part-time work to nearly 300,000 persons. Fish is a
traditional component of the Egyptian diet, accounting for 20-30 percent of
total consumption of animal protein. However, per capita consumption
(about 5.1 kg) is very low by world standards, mainly due to supply
constraints. During the past decade, domestic fish production increased at
only about 1.2 percent per annum on average and is now virtually stagnant
(about 125,000 tons, or less than 60 percent of total consumption), while



- 10 -
demand for fish has risen nearly 6.6 percent every year. As a result, fish
imports have grown rapidly to about 89,000 tons (valued at US$ 60 million)
expected in 1980, and are currently increasing more than 20 percent every
year. At the present rate of population growth, annual fish availability
would need to increase by some 60,000 tons by 1990 (above some 214,000 tons
in 1980) just to maintain present per capita consumption. Recognizing the
need to reduce the growing dependence on fish imports and the opportunity
for improving nutrition through this relatively low-cost protein source,
the government is giving high priority to fisheries development.
Fishery Resources
28.      Egypt's fishery resources are derived from several sources, both
within its hinterland and the seas. Marine resources, supplying roughly 15
percent of domestic production, lie mainly in the Eastern Mediterranean,
Gulf of Suez and Red Sea. The Mediterranean catch dropped sharply after
the flow of nutrients carried by the Nile was reduced following
construction of the Aswan High Dam. Stock assessments of the Gulf and Red
Sea are planned as part of an ongoing FAO/UNDP project for small-scale
fisheries development in these areas. Inland water fisheries (derived from
lakes, the Nile and its tributaries) account for nearly three quarters of
domestic output. However, the littoral lakes are already heavily fished,
while catch from man-made lakes such as Lake Nasser is already close to the
estimated maximum sustainable yield. Various studies financed by UNDP and
bilateral sources are currently investigating the potential for further
development of lake areas. However, the best prospects for increasing
domestic production probably lie in the expansion of fish farming
(aquaculture). Aquaculture has been practised in Egypt since ancient
times, but it is still based on low-yielding, traditional practices and is
not very widespread. The Nile valley and Delta offer several factors
suitable for fish culture, including large tracts of flat land too salty or
alkaline for crop production, favorable climatic conditions for growth of
natural fish food in ponds, indigenous fish species well suited to these
conditions, and an irrigation and drainage network providing good control
of water flows. Five mullet species are cultured, though four species of
tilapia, as well as catfish and Nile perch, may also enter with the water
supply; and carp is available from government hatcheries. Fish farms now
cover an area of about 35,000 feddans, mostly in the Delta, producing some
13 percent of domestic fish output. They mostly range from primitive
"howash" (basically illegal enclosures in natural lakes) to shallow ponds
(15-30 cm deep) surrounded by earth embankments built by hand. More
intensive fish culture (in ponds over 60 cm deep) is practised on a very
limited scale, mainly on governmental farms, few of which are currently run
on a scientific basis.
Aguaculture Development Constraints
29.      Several institutional and policy weaknesses continue to hinder
Egypt's transition to a well-structured and modern aquaculture industry.
Apart from a general shortage of funds (especially foreign exchange), the



- 11 -
most important of these constraints are: (i) administrative weaknesses,
manifested in the lack of coordination and dissipation of responsibility
for sector development among several ministries and agencies, and in the
extremely short supply of trained aquaculture technicians and fish farm
managers; (ii) unclear policies and conflicting priorities for land use,
which, by disallowing sales and permitting only short-term leases of state
lands for aquaculture purposes, have encouraged fish farming only as a
transitory stage in land reclamation for agriculture; and (iii) shortage of
inputs, such as livestock and poultry feeds (the supply and prices of which
are completely government controlled) and mullet fry (the collection of
which is poorly organized and regulated).
Aquaculture Development Plans
30.      Government plans to expand fish farming by about 60,000 feddans
and establish 10 carp hatcheries by 1990. Over the longer term, fertilized
polyculture might be possible on a total of up to 100,000 feddans in some
20 years' time, producing a maximum annual yield of perhaps 100,000 tons.
Several aquaculture projects are currently being implemented with bilateral
or multilateral assistance, including an IFC-financed project on about
1,200 feddans in Ismailia Rovernorate (using Chinese carp polyculture tech-
nology), an FAO/TCP project covering about 1,000 feddans at El Zaweya (in
Kafr El Sheikh governorate), and a USAID-financed program which is expected
to comprise two mullet fry collecting centers, a mullet hatchery, two carp
hatcheries, a National Aquaculture Center at Abbasa (in Sharkia governor-
ate) for training, extension and applied research, and eventual development
of 5,000 feddan of fish farms in the Ismailia-Sharkia area.
Fishery Organization
31.      The Undersecretariat for Aquatic Resources (USAR) in the Ministry
of Agriculture has overall responsibility for development and conservation
of fishery resources, although several other ministries and agencies are
variously involved in fish marketing, research, development of Lake Nasser,
etc., and the governorates have also been gaining increasing authority in
such matters as pricing, marketing and land allocation policies. USAR's
activities include licensing of fishermen, project planning and administra-
tion, feed and fertilizer allocations, leasing of state lands for fish
farming, and supervision of fisheries cooperatives. USAR has few techni-
cians qualified and experienced in aquaculture and engineering. Of a total
staff of 214 based in Cairo, 98 are university trained, mostly in general
agriculture. Weaknesses are particularly apparent in: (i) extension work,
which has been constrained by lack of facilities, organization, and trained
and motivated staff; (ii) research, undertaken mostly by the Institute of
Oceanography and Fisheries, the orientation of which has been academic and
experimental rather than practical; and (iii) specialized training of USAR
staff and fish farm operators. The ongoing USAID-financed project is
specifically designed to strengthen these institutional aspects. In
addition, a high-level National Committee for Aquaculture Development was
set up recently to provide overall policy guidance and coordination in the
aquaculture sector.



- 12 -
Fish Marketing and Processing
32.      Fish distribution is handled by two main channels;  just over half
the volume (including most output from littoral lakes, fish farms, the Nile
and its tributaries) by a large number of private individuals, and the rest
(including most imports and Lake Nasser production) by the public sector
represented by various consumer cooperatives and the Fish Marketing
Corporation (FMC) under the Ministry of Supply. Almost all domestic pro-
duction is marketed as fresh fish, for which there is a distinct consumer
preference over the frozen commodity. Output from fish farms, in particu-
lar, receives a premium in the market for freshness. Typically, fish catch
is either auctioned to wholesalers' agents or supplied directly to inter-
mediaries who have financed the fishermen. Transport facilities (owned by
FMC, wholesalers, or available on rent from trucking companies) appear
adequate, although most trucks are open or simply insulated with little
refrigeration. Available cold storage capacity (owned by FMC and the
private sector) also appears well in excess of demand, particularly since
production from fish farms comes on to the market during the slack winter
months. However, although the fish generally arrives at consumer centers
in a reasonable state, handling and sale conditions are often inadequate.
There is little doubt that the quality of the final product can be
substantially improved by better staff training, more effective enforcement
of hygiene standards, proper cleaning/drainage facilities and other
infrastructure, and clearly-defined organizational responsibilities for
market management and control.
Credit
33.      The Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
(PBDAC), together with its 17 affiliate governorate banks, has an extensive
network of nearly 5,300 branches and agencies and a total staff of over
20,000. It is by far the major primary source of institutional credit to
agriculture. PBDAC was thoroughly appraised under two previous
IDA-financed projects (Credits 830-EGT and 988-EGT), both of which are also
providing technical assistance to train the bank's staff in project
identification, appraisal and supervision. PBDAC has recently begun to
venture into new development fields, including fisheries, although
experience and expertise in this subsector are still very limited.
34.      Agricultural interest rates are regulated by the goverment as an
instrument of development policy and do not necessarily reflect market
conditions or the availability of capital. In recent years (particularly
since 1975), there has been a gradual upward trend in non-agricultural
interest rates toward more realistic levels. Interest rates in agriculture
have remained negative in real terms when compared with overall inflation
1/, but government price controls and other policy interventions have
1/ Expected inflation in 1981, 1982 and 1983 is 15 percent, 12 percent and
10 percent, respectively.



- 13 -
resulted in a substantial net taxation of the agriculture sector (estimated
around 30 percent) and kept price escalations in the sector well below
inflation rates in the rest of the economy. Most medium/long-term loans to
the agricultural sector are currently made for a period of 5-10 or more
years, with interest rates ranging from 6% for fisheries, livestock and
other "food security" activities, 8% for farm machinery, 11% for
agroindustries, and 12.5% for other investments. Rates for short-term
production credits are more highly subsidized, currently being about 4
percent for a typical nine-month loan or an effective annual rate of 6.5
percent (including an administration fee). In a recent policy statement,
the government has reaffirmed to the Bank its recognition of the important
role of interest rates in both investment allocation and resource
mobilization, and its strategy remains one of aligning domestic prices and
interest rates closer with world markets.
PART IV -- THE PROJECT
Project History
35.      The project was identified with the help of IDA and FAO/CP
missions visiting Egypt in July and September-October 1977, respectively.
It was prepared by the government with the assistance of consultants
(financed by IDA's Project Preparation Facility and UK's Overseas Develop-
ment Administration), and by an FAO/CP mission in November 1979. IDA pre-
appraisal took place in March 1980 and appraisal in April/May 1980.
Negotiations were held in Washington in December 1980, with the Egyptian
government represented by Mr. A. M. El-Gammal, Acting Director General,
Ministry of Economy, and Mr. Salah Zaalouk, Undersecretary for Aquatic
Resources in the Ministry of Agriculture, and included representatives of
the Ministry of Irrigation, and the Principal Bank for Development and
Agricultural Credit (PBDAC).
Project Objectives
36.      The project is intended to be a demonstration program of commer-
cial aquaculture development on both a large and small scale, utilizing
drainage water and land with no better alternative use. The concept is
based on culture of indigenous fish species (tilapia and mullet) with
complementary feeding habits, so that each ecological niche in the food
chain can be occupied and maximum use made of natural pond productivity
deriving from solar energy and soil nutrients (assisted by fertilization).
The project aims to: (i) increase fish production, thereby improving
nutrition and reducing dependence on imports; (ii) assist in replacing
traditional aquaculture practices with more modern and intensive production
techniques; (iii) improve incomes and employment opportunities for the
rural population; and (iv) contribute toward institution building in the
fisheries sector through technical assistance, policy changes and training.



- 14 -
Project Areas and Description
37.      The project areas cover nearly 5,000 feddans 1/ of land, including
about 3,100 feddans in the Maryut valley 26 km southwest of Alexandria
city, and a total of about 1,800 feddans on some 100 smaller fish farms
spread over four governorates in the Nile Delta region (Beheria, Kafr El
Sheikh, Sharkia and Damietta). The Maryut site is currently devoid of
significant activity or habitation, since its clay soils, saline conditions
and lack of a proximate source of irrigation water has precluded any
large-scale agricultural development. The four Delta governorates covered
by the project together contain about one fifth of Egypt's population and
roughly a third of its cultivated area, including an estimated 21,000
feddans currently under fish farms.
38.      The project includes the following components;  fish farm
facilities and related equipment and infrastructure, worker housing,
facilities and equipment for training and mullet fry collection, fish
marketing and project preparation studies, and technical assistance.
Details of the project are provided in the Credit and Project Summary and
in a Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Arab Republic of Egypt - Fish Farming
Development Project" (No. 3114-EGT) dated January 28, 1980, distributed
separately to the Executive Directors and summarized below. A
Supplementary Project Data Sheet is also attached as Annex III.
39.      The project provides for construction of a fish farm at Maryut,
covering some 3,100 feddans (about 2,500 feddans net water area) and
including 214 rectangular ponds (each 12.3 feddans), 12 wintering ponds,
water supply and drain canals, a pump station, administration and storage
buildings, a pipeline to divert effluents from an adjacent industrial area,
and family housing for about 250 pond operators and technicians at nearby
El Ameriya town. Miscellaneous transport, aquaculture, maintenance and
office equipment would be provided. In addition, about 11 manyears of
consultant services, including 50 manmonths of detailed design work, 33
manmonths of construction supervision services, 36 manmonths of an
experienced aquaculturist/pond management advisor, 4 manmonths of a
financial management expert, and 10 manmonths of short-term consultants in
aquaculture engineering and other specialized topics. Several design and
operation safeguards have been incorporated into the project to minimize
possible health risks from spread of communicable diseases by fish ponds.
The government would also introduce and maintain satisfactory measures to
control pollution (particularly from adjacent industrial developments),
protect the environment, and safeguard the health and safety of inhabitants
and workers at the Maryut project site (Development Credit Agreement,
Sections 3.04 and 3.15). The government would declare this a "food
security" project to ensure adequate and timely availability of
construction materials, and it would allocate sufficient electricity and
potable water supplies for the Maryut fish farm's needs (Development Credit
Agreement, Sections 3.05 and 3.06).
1/ 1 feddan = 0.42 ha.



- 15 -
40.      The credit component would provide medium/long-term loans to about
100 individual tish farmers on a total of some 1,800 feddan in the Delta
region. The component would finance construction of ponds and storage
sheds, and provide transport vehicles, pumps and other water control
facilities. Most loans will be made for 10-30 feddan fish farms, about 60
percent being for improvement of existing fish farms and the remainder for
construction of new ones.
41.       The project would finance a building, indoor concrete cisterns, a
water supply system, two pick-ups, nets and other gear to improve opera-
tions at the existing El Mex collection station for mullet fry near
Alexandria. Mullet fry catch will be increased and mortality reduced by
introducing suspension fry nets to replace hand scoop nets, and physical
conditioning of fry for 2-3 days before shipment to fish farms. Services
of a mullet fry collection expert for four months would be financed to
assist in designing the inproved facilities and operations.
42.      The project would expand training facilities (including housing,
transport and miscellaneous equipment) at the existing governmental fish
farm at El Zaweya (in Kafr El Sheikh governorate) and other appropriate
fish farms. Several categories of training would be carried out, all being
designed on completely functional lines initially to meet the project's own
needs for trained pond operators, supervisors, extension agents, and credit
appraisers. The project provides for 24 manmonths of an experienced
aquaculture/pond management trainer, 8 manmonths of short-term experts in
aquaculture engineering, barvesting methods and other specialized topics,
24 manyears of fellowships, and 6 manyears of short-term training courses
abroad in various aspects of fish farm business management and production
technology.
43.      Six manmonths of consultant services each are provided to assist
in setting up an effective extension service in the four governorates
covered bv the credit component, and to design and implement monitoring and
evaluation systems for various components. One station wagon, four pickups
and eight motorcycles are provided for extension staff, and one station
wagon, four pickups, programmable calculators and other equipment for use
in monitoring and evaluation work.
44.      The fish marketing study, for which 18 manmonths of consultants
are provided, will review current practices, systems, facilities and
organization for fish transport, marketing and processing, and make recom-
mendations on needed investments and appropriate changes in procedures,
regulations and government policies. The project preparation study
(including 36 manmonths of consultants) will assist in defining an overall
strategy for aquaculture development, strengthen USAR's project identifica-
tion and preparation capabilities, prepare specific projects for implemen-
tation by USAR, and also assist and train PBDAC's staff in fisheries
subproject appraisal. Terms of reference for both these studies would be
provided to IDA by September 30, 1981. The fish marketing study would be
completed by September 30, 1982. The government would agree with IDA on



- 16 -
appropriate measures to be taken to implement the studies' recommendations
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.09).
Project Costs and Financing
45.      Total project cost (including an average 25 percent price and 10
percent physical contingency) is estimated at about $26.3 million, includ-
ing about $1.8 million of taxes and duties. The foreign exchange component
is estimated at $14.0 million, or 53 percent of total cost. Costs of
expatriate consultants (including professional fees, travel, per diem and
local expenses) have been estimated at an average $10,700 per man-month.
The proposed IDA credit of SDR 11 million (about $14 million) would finance
100 percent of the foreign exchange component, or 57 percent of the total
cost net of taxes and duties. The credit includes an advance of $1 million
already approved by IDA under the Project Preparation Facility, of which
$500,000 is for detailed designs and preparation of tender documents, and
the remainder assisted in financing the project feasibility study. The
government would contribute about $9.7 million and the Principal Bank for
Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC) about $1.4 million of local
costs. The Arab Republic of Egypt will be the Borrower of the IDA credit,
out of which about SDR 2.4 million (about $3.1 million) equivalent would be
on-lent to PBDAC at 3 percent interest for 15 years, including 3 years'
grace period. PBDAC, in turn, will relend these funds to individual fish
farmers (see para. 51). The government will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Implementation
46.      The project (except the credit component) will be implemented by
the Undersecretariat for Aquatic Resources (USAR) in the Ministry of
Agriculture. On-lending to individual fish farmers under the credit
component will be the responsibility of the Principal Bank for Development
and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC), which is also the implementation agency
under the Agricultural Development Project (Credit 830-EGT) and the
Agroindustries Project (Credit 988-EGT).
47.      To coordinate the activities of various agencies and provide
overall policy guidance, a Coordination Committee would be established by
September 15, 1981 within USAR, headed by the Undersecretary for Aquatic
Resources and including representatives from the Ministries of Irrigation
and Public Health, PBDAC, and the Alexandria Governorate, with the project
manager of the Project Implementation and Monitoring Unit (see para. 48
below) acting as its general secretary. The Committee will meet at least
quarterly to review project progress (Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.03 and Schedule 2, Annex Section 1). Assurances were obtained that all
consultants for the project will be hired under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02). Most of
these consultants will be appointed by September 30, 1981, the monitoring
and evaluation expert by December 31, 1981, and the aquaculturist/pond
management advisor at Maryut by December 31, 1982 (Development Credit
Agreement, Schedule 2, Annex Section 6). Consultants' services would



- 17 -
preferably be acquired through one or more experienced and established
firms to ensure coordination of the work of individual specialists.
48.      Within USAR, a Project Implementation and Monitoring Unit (PIMU)
will be established to coordinate the design and supervision of project
works, and to monitor and evaluate progress. This Unit will maintain
project accounts, handle procurement and withdrawal documentation, and have
liaison with other concerned ministries and agencies, particularly in the
establishment and staffing of the Naryut Fish Farming Company (see para. 50
below). The Unit will be headed by a senior engineer, experienced in
planning, design and construction management of irrigation and drainage
works, together with an aquaculture specialist, three other engineers,
seven other professionals and technicians, and other support staff, all
assigned full-time to the project. Establishment of the Unit, including
appointment of at least the project manager, one engineer and one
accountant, is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(Development Credit Agreement, Sections 3.03, 6.01, and Schedule 2, Annex
Section 3).
49.      The training and extension programs, improvements to the El Mex
mullet fry collection station, and the fish marketing and project prepara-
tion study will all be carried out under arrangements acceptable to IDA.
Appropriate officials will be designated responsible for each program or
study (by September 30, 1981), and supported by the requisite technical and
support staff and the necessary facilities, equipment and vehicles.
Detailed training proposals will be submitted for IDA's review by September
30, 1981, and the program for fellowship training will be prepared by July
31, 1981. USAR would be allowed complete freedom in operating the El
Zaweya fish farm as a training facility under the project (Development
Credit Agreement, Sections 3.07, 3.11, and Schedule 2, Annex Section 2).
Extension work would be organized along "training and visit" lines, with
extension workers visiting designated "key" fish farmers and other
individual subborrowers, and subject-matter specialists from the Institute
of Oceanography and Fisheries (and other appropriate research institutions)
providing in-service training and advice.
50.      For operation and management of the fish farm at the Maryut
project site, the Maryut Fish Farming Company (MFFC) would be established
by June 30, 1982 (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.04) under
Egyptian Law 43/1974, which allows freedom in product pricing, employee
compensation, and profit distribution policies. As a condition of
effectiveness of this credit, the government would provide IDA for its
approval detailed proposals (including draft company charter and by-laws)
on MFFC's capital formation, staffing, operational procedures, and finance,
in line with guidelines agreed at negotiations (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 6.01). MFFC would be set up by PBDAC (and one or more
other governmental agencies) as the public sector partner, and about 10
potential pond operators as the initial private shareholders. MFFC would
start operating about one-third of the Maryut fish farm around April 1983,
and, when construction of the remainder is completed (around January 1984),



- 18 -
the government would transfer the fish farm's assets (civil works and
equipment) to the company in return for equal amounts in value of (i)
shares in MFFC's equity, and (ii) a loan at 6% interest, repayable by MFFC
over 20 years, incuding two years' grace. Pond operators (upto 214 in all)
would be required to buy shares in MFFC, normally be assigned one pond each
on long-term lease, and enjoy considerable autonomy in actual pond
operation (following a two-year probationary period). The company itself
would own all facilities and function largely as a service organization
responsible for input purchase, marketing, aquaculture advice and guidance,
operation/maintenance of hydraulic structures and common facilities, etc.
Pond operators' income would be tied to production from their particular
ponds, as in a sharecropping arrangement, and the company would deduct
charges from sale proceeds to cover operating and maintenance expenses,
make debt service payments, buy back equity from government and PBDAC, and
build up financial reserves. Thus, the individual pond operators would
eventually constitute the major shareholders of MFFC. Company policies
would be directed by a Board of Directors, and day-to-day management
carried out by a staff of about 65 professionals and technicians. It was
agreed during negotiations that this Board and essential staff would be
appointed no later than December 31, 1982.
On-lending
51.      The government will onlend the proceeds of the IDA credit for the
fish farmer credit component (about $3.1 million) to PBDAC, which in turn
will make medium/long-term loans to sub-borrowers through its existing
branch network in the project areas. Sublending decisions would be
supported by adequate appraisals to ensure that projects are technically,
financially and economically viable. PBDAC will provide IDA for its
review, by September 30, 1981, with a standard form of loan contracts to be
used by its branch banks in making subloans under the project. PBDAC will
also establish a Fisheries Credit Coordination Unit, including a full-time
Credit Coordin.itor, a fish farming specialist, two technicians, two
accountants and other staff, of whom at least the coordinator, fish farming
specialist and one accountant will be appointed by September 30, 1981
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.08 (a) and Schedule 2, Annex
Section 5). This Unit would coordinate procurement and withdrawal
documentation and monitor progress of the credit component, assist regional
offices in identifying and appraising subprojects, and coordinate
establishment of the Maryut Fish Farming Company. Subloans to
beneficiaries will be made at PBDAC's normal interest rate for fisheries
projects of 6% per annum, with a maximum term of 10 years and subborrower
contribution of 20 percent of the investment costs. This on-lending rate
would be subsequently adjusted to keep it in line with future interest rate
increases for medium/long-term loans in the fisheries subsector. In order
to spread project benefits over as many fish farmers as possible, the
maximum subloan amount would be LE 50,000, thus enabling each family to
borrow funds for no more than about 30 feddans of fish ponds. Under the
project, PBDAC would relax its normal collateral requirements to accept
movable property and other fish farm investments, together with long-term



- 19 -
land leases, as security for fish farming subloans. PBDAC would also send
to IDA for its approval the first ten sub-loan applications (Development
Credit Agreement, Schedule 2, Annex Section 5). The above sublending
arrangements, satisfactory to the Borrower and IDA, would be reflected in a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the government and PBDAC, the signing of
which is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Development
Credit Agreement, Sections 3.08 and 6.01).
Procurement and Disbursement
52.      Equipment and vehicles costing a total of about $900,000 (of which
IDA would finance about $770,000) will be procured in bulk, to the extent
possible, by USAR and PBDAC under international competitive bidding in
accordance with IDA guidelines. Local manufacturers will be allowed a
margin of preference of 15 percent or the applicable customs duty,
whichever is lower. Equipment costing less than $30,000 up to an aggregate
limit of $500,000 will be procured under local competitive bidding
procedures, acceptable to IDA. Foreign firms are well represented in Egypt
and would be allowed to participate in local competitive bidding.
Proprietary equipment (mainly spare parts) costing up to $500,000 in
aggregate may be purchased off the shelf from reliable suppliers.
Transport and pumping equipment under the credit component (costing about
$2.1 million, of which IDA would finance about $1.2 million) will be
procured by the beneficiaries of subloans under the supervision of PBDAC
through regular commercial channels, since bulk procurement of this
equipment will be impractical and there is an adequate choice among local
and foreign suppliers.
53.      Civil works, including pump station equipment, for the Maryut fish
farm (costing about $10.3 million, of which IDA would finance about $4.1
million) will be procured under international competitive bidding in
accordance with IDA guidelines. The entire works would be awarded as a
single contract to ensure effective overall coordination and management.
The government has recently signed a contract with consultants for
preparation of detailed engineering designs and tender documents (financed
under the Project Preparation Facility) for these works. Civil works under
the credit component (costing about $3.2 million, of which IDA would
finance about $1.8 million) will be procured by beneficiaries under the
supervision of PBDAC and USAR through normal commercial channels. All
other civil works (costing about $2.3 million, of which IDA would finance
about $900,000) would be procured by USAR under local competitive bidding
procedures, satisfactory to IDA. These two categories of works are
unsuitable for international tendering because of their varied nature,
relatively small size, and geographical dispersion.
54.      The IDA credit will be disbursed as follows;  70 percent of
sub-loan amounts disbursed under the credit component; 40 percent of the
cost of all other civil works; 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100
percent of local ex-factory costs if manufactured locally, and 80 percent
of total expenditures if purchased from local suppliers for equipment; 85



- 20 -
percent of expenditures for consultants' services; 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for fellowships; and 100 percent of expenditures out of the
Project Preparation Facility. The project is expected to be completed by
December 31, 1985, and the credit closing date will be December 31, 1986.
Production and Markets for Project Products
55.      The project will produce some 3,800 tons of incremental fish
output (mainly mullet and tilapia) annually at full development in 1987.
Projected yields are considered attainable over a three to four year
build-up period, since the fish species to be cultivated are indigenous and
already widely used in Egypt, the average production unit is small and
easily manageable, and fish farmers would gain from introduction of
improved technology, with substantial technical assistance, training and
extension support. Project output will be auctioned daily and entirely
consumed domestically (mainly in Cairo and Alexandria). In recent years,
domestic fish production has remained stagnant, while imports have risen
rapidly and now account for over 40 percent of total consumption. With
increasing per capita incomes, annual fish demand is expected to continue
to grow to some 300,000-320,000 tons by 1985 (a 50 percent increase over
1980 levels). Project production would account for only about one percent
of this demand, about three percent of domestic production, and some four
percent of total demand during the three month harvesting season
(November-January) and should be easily absorbed by existing marketing
channels. In case of slack demand, the ponds themselves would provide the
natural fish storage area. Since the fish would be marketed in closely
controlled grades, and quality would be fairly constant, it is expected
that contract sales for a substantial proportion of the crop will build up,
thus providing a regular and predictable flow of fish to the markets and
greatly assisting the coordination of harvesting schedules.
Benefits and Beneficiaries
56.      The project's incremental annual output of about 3,800 tons of
fresh fish, valued at $5.9 million, would enable an equivalent substitution
for imports and possible foreign exchange savings over the project life of
about $83 million. The economic rate of return (excluding the mullet fry
collection facilities, training and extension programs, worker housing, and
the two studies, whose benefits are difficult to quantify) is estimated at
21 percent. The economic net present value of the project, assuming a cost
of capital of 10 percent, exceeds its investment, operating and maintenance
costs by about $11 million. Including the cost of components whose
benefits are non-quantifiable, the rate of return would be 16 percent. The
Maryut fish farm has a rate of return of 18 percent and the credit
component 38 percent. If the yield build-up took 6 years (instead of 3-4
years assumed at present), the project's rate of return would be 16
percent. If production increases were delayed by 1 year with no
corresponding delay in costs, the rate of return would still be
satisfactory at 15 percent.



- 21 -
57.      The main quantifiable benefits of the project would accrue to some
314 individual fish farmers and pond operators (and their families). About
100 additional families would directly benefit from increased availability
of better quality mullet fry. Project beneficiaries would be drawn from a
broad range of socio-economic backgrounds, with current incomes of $60-500
per capita (compared with an absolute poverty income level of $120 and
relative poverty level of $100 in rural Egypt). Some 10-20 percent of the
project's quantifiable benefits are expected to accrue to beneficiaries in
the relative poverty target group. Increased permanent employment for
about 370 persons and seasonal work of some 8,000 mandays annually for
about 100 workers (mostly in slack agricultural periods) are also expected
to be created. Project works would employ an additional 500 workers over
the five year implementation period.
58.      In addition, major non-quantifiable benefits include demonstration
of efficient technology and organization which are expected to be adopted
later on a much wider scale, and setting the stage for further significant
increases in fish production through preparation of additional aquaculture
projects under a well-planned and consistent strategy. Better mullet fry
handling procedures and conditioning facilities at El Mex are also expected
to be replicated at other collection points along the northern coast,
leading to conservation and greater availability of this scarce resource.
The fish marketing study will lead to adoption of more hygienic standards,
improved facilities and organization, and more rational pricing and other
policy interventions. These, together with such policy changes as
extending the minimum term of lease for fish farms from five to ten years
and allowing sales of state lands for aquaculture purposes (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.10), should result in generally more efficient
resource allocation in the sector. The technical assistance, training and
extension components will directly attack basic institutional weaknesses,
add to trained operating-level manpower resources, and improve linkages
between researchers and fish farmers.
Risks
59.      Possible risks are substantial, but project design has
specifically attempted to reduce or eliminate their incidence.
Construction of works at the Maryut site would be a major earthmoving
exercise, but risks of delays and faulty construction are minimized by
assigning overall responsibility to a single contractor and design and
supervision by the same engineering consultants. The Maryut fish farm
would, on completion, be one of the larger aquaculture schemes of its kind
in the world. However, the risk of operating failures has been reduced by
decentralization into six independent production blocks, substantial
components for training and technical assistance during the first three
years of operation, and an organizational framework giving complete freedom
of management action and adequate incentives to pond operators. While some
of the project benefits depend on the response of individual fish farmers
in adopting improved technology, this is not expected to be a major
problem, in view of increased availability of credit, liberalizatior of
collateral requirements, and the obvious financial benefits of project
investments such as deeper ponds.



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Arab Republic
of Egypt and the Association and the Recommendations of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
61.      Features of the Credit Agreement of special interest are referred
to in Section III of Annex III.
62.      Special conditions of effectiveness of the credit are:
establishment of the Project Unit, including the appointment of three key
staff members (Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(a)), provision to
IDA by the government of satisfactory detailed proposals for the
establishment of MFFC (Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01 (b)), and
the signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the government and PBDAC
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(c)).
63.      I am satisfied that the proposed IDA credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 19, 1981
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
- 23 -
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAG S
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM. )                                                          -DST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           1001.4                                                   MIDDLE INCOMSE
AGRICULTURAL      29.6                                MOST RBCENT        NORTH AFRICA 6             MIDDLE INCCME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE A        MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA A CARIJBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 100.0       160.0    460.0                  818.5                  1562.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)     298.0       275.0     463.0                545.0                   1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     25.9        33.3      39.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 37.9        42.2      44.0                 45.7                     63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      62.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                ..     101.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACRED                 2105
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. 1M.                       26.0        33.0      40.0                 40.7                     28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    982.0      1125.0    1343.0                 598.6                    81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.0        42.1      40.2                  44.0                    41.4
15-64 YRS.                         55.0        54.7      56.3                 52.5                     54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0         3.2       3.5                  3.5                      3.9
POPULATION GROWTH LATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.4         2.5       2.2                   2.6                     2. 7
URBAN                              6.0         3.6       3.0                  4.5                      4. 1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    45.0         39.0      37.0                  41.6                    34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PEE THOUSAND)     19.0        15.0      13.0                  13.7                     8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2. 8L       3.0       2.3                   2.9                     2.5
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       206.0     187.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ,.          9.0      21.1                  16.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF PFOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          96.0        99.0      91.0                 93.5                    106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  102.0       104.0     109.0                103.6                    107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          73.0        71.0      75.0                 69.8                     65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0        17.0      19.0                  17.5                    33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     31.0        23.0      18.0                  17.5                     8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.0        51.0      54.0                 54.4                     63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..          ..     108.0                   ..                     66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..      66.0                 62.5                     65.9
URBAN                               ..          ..      88.0                 82.9                     80.4
RURAL                               ..          ..      50.0                 45.1                     44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                           ..        ..                   ..                     62.3
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                   ..                     79.4
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                   ..                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2600.0      1910.0    1065.S0              4688.7                   1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2730.0d    1640.O0d  J150.0/d              1751.                    1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            460.0       462.0     470.0                635.5                    480.3
URBAN                               ..       290. 0    250.0
RURAL                               ..      2110.0    2090.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..       5.2
URBAN                              4.6          ..        .
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..       1.8
URBAN                              1. 6 
RURAL
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..      45. 7
URBAN                             37.8          ..      77.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      19.0



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
- 24 -
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                           REFERENCE CROUPS (WEICHTED AVERAGC
- MOST RECEN
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT        NORTH AFRICA *            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b       MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                66.0        69. 0     72. 0                76.4                     99. 7
MALE                 80.0        84.0      87.0                 92.2                    101.0
FEHALE               52.0        53. 0     56.0                 59.9                     99.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 16.0        32.0      46.0                 33.3                     34.4
MALE                 23.0        44.0      57.0                 41.9                     33.5
FEMALE                9.0        21.0      34.0                 24.2                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (t OF SECONDARY) 22.0         19.0      18.0                  9.B                     38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           39.0        38.0      40.0                 39.2                     30.5
SECONDARY                         16.0        25.0      29.0                 25.1                     14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       26.0          ..      43.5                  39.7                    76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         4.0       7.5                 13.3                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        58.0       132.0     137.0                139.0                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1. 9       16.0      17.0                 29.0                     84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..        22.0      21.0                 22.2                     63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0         2.0        ..                  2.8 
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     7481.4      9318.2   11124.7
FEMALE (PERCNT)                    7.3         7.2       8.0                  9.6                     22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             58.4        54.4      51.0                  47.0                    37.1
INDUS3RY (PERCENT)                12.2        18.8      26.0                 23.8                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               28.9        28.0      28.0                  26.1                    31.5
MALE                                53.2        51.5      51.3                  47.4                    48.9
FEN4ALE                              4. 2        4. 1      4. 3                 4. 7                    14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.6         1.6       1.6                   1.9                     1.4
INCOhE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCCME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/e      17.4/ef  22.0/j
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44. 4/e     42. 8/e f  49. 2.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6. 6/e      7. Ojef   5. I-
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/e      18.71ef  14.8*-
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     120.0                262.5
RURAL                               ..          ..      86.0                140.4                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     163.0                202.1                    474.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      72.0                122.2                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      21.0                 22.1
RURAL                               ..          ..      25.0                 33.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
La   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
L   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1950-55; L Registered, not all practing in the country; Le Rural expenditures; L  1964-65; /e National,
1974-75.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 25 -                                                                   ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS iF SOCIAL ISPICATOOS
Nones:  Although the dat   rdaIItoIoucsgeeal  judged the most authoritaive   ud reliable, It thauld also  he t-d that they maY cc ha inner-
atico...llyorupotahle . hecus  ofd the  '111 It1     loo  of statdrrdad' defleli-oc   sod coc..oPt.eunod bY diffll ret  --utie-  Iv cu11-ciog the duos.  The dot or ore  tone-
thelnem, usefu  to descibe ordee  of magitude, Indicate tredo, ad charatertair  -cttio cju- dliff--vo   b.tt..toecu ir -t
ofthe sajet ornry(arp  frCPitalSrpu GIl Eaportore   group sheer "fiddle fecur North Africla od Middlr  oot  Iah chote  b..s... of etrctg-r
sanr-tloual  ffietels-l. ie  baretrh        r  group data  the averagat ar  popaluti_oonghtod   -rtael                      u   us   ulau   o   hr  rely what at
data acd in no  .uitf.-, c-tium  eass hr    nrtus  In eu tic  aveag- at sue Lodci-c- stcc-nh-    oTh_    _vrgoc are ouy u-ftu  ctcspr.                                     the valor
of one icdi-ato, at a timr amog the coutry and rafsconce groups.
LAtI  AREA (thousand sq.ku.)                                                                      Kkcpalovlyy         Phrysscsiu  - foyssoioc suviod bY no-he  ot arstoleg.  phy-
Tot.1 - Total suf-a or  re  s-potalug land ats sod iclecd aaeclisi.e qualified Iros amdicul cehool or university leve.
hAriraL.turl -.Etaison of agricahtrul urea used temporurily or ya-oacetly                       Popolutic per N-ric  PTrucs - PopulatlIun divided by nether               o uf .ratiobeg
for  rtps.  postures,  -ket and hioche garden  or to lie fallon; 1977 data,                     male and fNemalt rdaatecu--, prut-toa_             oron, and. asists at or
MP PER CPITA (U$  - GNPF- ..Pi. ..ti-.1 ptit., ..I-                      Paruistic! cer Hroital red- tonal. urban, and roi - Population frts.ta
fOgy PU  APITA (1$) - Aeppar caplc entlet,s atc_ntaon   rco    a-                       uboc, atd raru) divided by their repectiv  nethe  of hspitel hbde
roacdbysmeccret    mobdu    ol   ahAls(97-79 bauto); 1960.                                        -vilahle  to public sod pri-oe  g-oerl and npeitliaId hepital neden
1970, sod  1979data.                                                                              huhtlitao   seters   Hispitros1 r  ntalisbhitan   p-nmu 1ntl   stffd
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Ao...l   --pli.hy en 1oast .Ot phyalise..  istabliehanat. proidig prinripally'-otudiml
tHiRtY ChifttPTIt Pit CAITA - saatul conumpnico  f -crer-il ecry (cool               cur  ace cur  olodd.  cRal h-spitals, h-evr, tesode health and  medcl
and lignite, petrleu,ceau  gas atd hydra-,... 1-cu  sod g_theml  ec                               ccrr  coo pen .oretly stff ed by a physician  (but by I andiral.. asistat,
te tciy)  in hiloran  of cre  eqlnnr  eroit;16.10h.o.17                                            us, sldnife,  -cc.   hich offer it-patiet ar mdatire and peevide a
data.                                                                                             Iitnd tago of medica- fciitre               Foe tateto         puepase  meha  hepi-
PSPCLATIPS ANt VITA]. OTATIITICI                                           rule  i-tlde WiO.pe  riscipu1 geora1 ae pciled                 hepittal, end rura
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                           ~~~~~~hoepitls  local or rura  hspioni  and medical and meteruity saes
Total Fporlnutim. Mid-Year (lis)- As of July 1; 1960. 1970, usi 1978                             Adnluiors_   tnt Asartu Ned - Total number of admissions to or diachages
data.                                                                                           from  hospitoin  divided by the tunbe  of beds.
Ira   ouls   percet of total)    R tunl  of arbor to  .tota  yspalstion;
different definitiona of urbar arasmeI          uici    purbailiry ot dots                 goptiNs
amon  croteis; 167,1971,I, and19f  daso.                                               Averg  Slea Ru`n- l  lreroupee hoshod                          tota  I uban, an tro]
Populer1iut In ,yea  lilt0  - Curreco populatiro  pro) ..c Is  son bone-d  09l80                sod chstca   reels.A boseder or lu.1dger ua or sy cut he t-lded is
total  upalaton hy  ge sod en  aud their  rosly ndfollty  acs                           the h.uarbud ir uctuItia   Puros.
Pr0lnocioss paramters farmetuItyttosmrs   ftre   eesoon                                     vrg  tun     of pesoc  Pee 'ruse- tuca1. urba.. ocd rua   - Av-eagn .
tog life eap-tosay at birthtitceastg with ar rtper aspita Insn                               hrc.poec.e  rot.-   F al  urban, and raral.. uupiad c--utilna
lee,sdfemal  ifeI Iu toi-y atubilieleg at 77.5 y-ar.  Tbe ptare                        d-llos        spu-ively.  Orcslisgseo-ludsr..yr                snnrctrsed
messfo tetility rae  ie  hav  thes  la'aeln astaicg do-Iice  Icc-id -
f-lity.... diog  . i..   .v.1-d p.t f..ly pl-i.,  -f.--             Accost or Eleccoity (-u-et at doellious) - tote1, urbo, sod rura   -
tushitrutney Is then assigned on  of these tine   -beistion- of nuecaity                      Canvectiso..l derIlligu with eIetioitry in living quarters as percetage
an-d fert11.1litytends  for prj    printp.yea.                                                 of tocab, urbac, and rural d-11.lots rePectively.
Stt ionary                I.  Iaan r-t ottIr....y  .poplsoiss ithr-  Is no gro-th sbs
the birth rate be equal no the death rtet, aId sIs  the age  ttruslur  en-    EDUCATION
e_iue contant.  This is achie.d.        nl.   ItrftiuT acsdesli   t5                       Adlusted Ecrsll1ent Rineo
she replacana   bevel of uoit not repedactI- rte,oeec   getrtie                                riar.ehIl   tta.  a    acd foni-eoettl,sl   ndfel
of  tasarp-luses. btrash  roo-tly.  The sntltoc..ry populatIonso   08ori                                co   i i-m   ttthe primary lvlu   no an    feaste
osietedo   h h.        i  of the projected shacacteesics of the pupulatiue                      primary school-sa Npopulations; norely includes ohld..n aged 6-11
inthe year 2000,ad to rte of decior of fertility ruts to f71c5-                                 years bat adjusted ire difiret lngtbm  of pria-ry eduction; ins
anon t   ..I.111.  .~..hd     h     - h                           ~.i..t leve.                   cunti-noAt  suvural eduronerolet   mayenedliPect
Sansutaionor opuanie i  res bd -Thuyrarebs  uttioaryprclarcc            loc  soeptpilo  ar  beir- or u.bso  the official school age.
sisebu hen  reac ..he.                                                                        Se....dary school - coral main and fml    Conputed en shov;sndy
tee em. k.. - Mid-yea  population per square  ilostro  (li  brtro h-          7 orfin   geurre . vrtioca,ao                              ece:tsro   ntctPirsai fatpuib
P-   Q. k..   I..d - C.W.t.d   b.- fot               I..                   -I~asully sof 12 is 17 year  of age; cornpondet.... re Itee generally
teesu  In.arolaa  ad-Cmue   saotfranrlus   rd                                                    a.ucluded.
Porulatirn Ass Structure (percet).   Childre    0l   er)  ntirog-age  Ill-                           lold    eitea,trutr..orohe.ronn  abit .                          psa..   ide
64 pear), sad  -tiirsd  (69 years sod ove) an Pere.rt.s uof mid-y-o  pupa-                        d_ttly o   ndeParr-tn  of  -ocodary  ti-itutit._
lanira;1962,  979, sd 197f dens.                                                          Pavlou.e..i-rrav   ndssodr     T  a  euet.srlldi
Proaleodon iroeth tare (tresete) - tonal - Asul groath rotor of total aid-               PitI
yea  ppultins  or195-h,    fffl,so  1907.                                  rimary and scoaylv              dividd by onbers rf tacee   i  the
Poruistin irret  habe (eecont)- urbe- A sn.aI grrothrutoa  of arbso psym-              uda  lterc  rate  _errs  -lterate adita  (ebb, to read sad nice)
Clati..e fur 1950-Al, 196i-70, sod 19ff-Ti.                                                        uo   -ec tacgo  af no-1 adultpopulation aged 15pe_   atd mane
CrueBirt  gt (e tosad   - Annua l1Ive births Per thuma..d of rid-year
popinus1       fi  Iffi, an  19T8 data.CONSUMNPTION
CrdePac  tn  -(c  thousad)l      Ianul-etho  pr thomson.d of mid-year                       Pou-g- CIot  (coo thas.ac.  osut                    ....a.ttrraecopie   ee
PnPalation; l9hO, .1970, acd 19.    -. at. sea rin tot  thtrgtpooa.oideaa sos,hassad
tru   aE.duction  sts - Ave'    v,mreo  d-aghteonsoc-o  mill Ioacco                            olititryvehgielso.th.ogtp  . 
her normal reproductive Pe,  -F.7  Mrt-erie.... P pr..e. Ig-pc fcf                  R-fdia R- -str   co- th ....rd rtltaf-All rypes of recivers ftot.rdb
rilityta .a.-Iualy fiv-'                 ..'   ..nea  uduug ic l9A0, biT0,  -od 19TT.           brash-sa te rau.ce.uI public  e  thousmad e.fhpopulato;ncu.nt
family Planias-Asrertors, Au,:.            Fi.soe        A- ao 1 uub-e at  --rptor.otdceiertseaciaan   npaeot  reistain  frdi    e
of hnb-irt cro   davios  under  -pisou of ratirca1 family Plann.ing yragrne.                    au. Ia effect; hors far ro-o  penc  may car he canpueshle abase mot
fatly Planima-leers(no_eut ad matriod uea             P-ttrcugo of tarried                  eateahlasd hs onig
eeeof snuld-hb-ig age (15-44 y-sc)  h.e use birth-cotrol devi-e   O                       T  iovr   e tthaadpounlo                        TVISreevr  far beodstn
all nurried onen ir same age group.                                   ~g-rerl publie Pro thoanard populatico;  -aclude    c ice..need TV reei-era
iFOO AltD 9UTRITION                                                                                  ioce-tsieu sod in year  ohm,                . ritaio  of TV sate se  i ffect.
Todna of Food Production Pc lupine (1969-71-100) - Indes of Pro  -pal                           soatpsj", rPIP" cuhir (e  iru          d Pospltiao) - chore the oveag  circular
pt.d.tti.. of .11 food                                    csuoasiiarat  'ail  gueolIteeoteepopet', defined  eatperiadiral pub-
Iptodu,Irao  al   od  s ditiss.  Prudacrtieoe...sdeeueed and feed and                          Ii-stin devotd prImaIly  to  eodn    oeo   es                   Iti  considered
is an  alenda  yearbasis.  Coedtdl be  euv.. pri"ay gorda. (n.,  .u..rcat                 cc h   'dailly` If Iracosurso  leas  true. tine-           ck
fando  ease) ehitch ac   dible  udencu  aucrrs tI            (e.g. cofnnd               husAcA   tt oc   e _Capita roe Neu-f-ue..d ur the nethe  of
te    It nldd.Agrgt   rdrico   sc   rar   thsdO                                           riders en-d daegteyea, icrludlog udamiti-  tn drite-in sianme
natioa   verg-rdcrpie ightts;f196I-65, 1970, ecd 19Tl  data,                                    and nohie  _ita
Per .nPita surel  of calories (pecat  ofrq_               e c)- Compa...d from
enertgy squisIet of use trod supplies avilable  to e-otry per -upirn                     LABOR FORIt
pe -dy   Avilbe   uPlis         Ppriss do....tir pradrctioc, inyarta loan              Total labor Force(Shonsuda) - Fte..oolcalY attIve Pe...ns,  insudiug
nauc,adcagsi   nc.Net supple    -ndeaimal feed, seedc,                                   Tro    aetsdaupae    a   oealgbsele,euet,ec
qunttessedtoid_eeesog   ahluss  ndttrbrsn    oyst-                                          ritter    n  aras udola   eeer  rpuais   lb,yotdn
met  .... estimated by fA) bae  on d    phyeiologl.ol ner ds for  -uma  soti-              1778 dava.
nipy and bosith  -uid-ting  _niro_eniL1 tenpnran,,e, body -eighta, age                       ear(oeo)-  ta                 a      oeu   percoeroge of tota  labor force.
and umo daccb,ihuio  of PaPol-eio    and a1lsebuf 11 pat-at ret wast   It                  dArleolt,ro (rr-tuo   -labor forc  Is farnio,  fto..eety, huntiug8 end
hausebsd beani  1961-h,  1971,soS 197  data.                           iobi,` atp-neetago of ttra1 labor free; 1960, 1970 and1979 dare.
Per  ....o.  .sooy of roeo(cn  ra   o)-P  ti   o c                        f pro is.Pita       Incary(or-t            - Laor for-  le miring,  tect-ati-, menfarturieg
oro supply of ford pee day.  Ntsr spply ad trod Is dofibudansovo.   cc                     -so  rlrrrn,wan   o   o   s  ocn oo  outollaborforce  lfi
qaleeteets for all cononrina  nstsbiithti by 15th provide far amman         1971 sod 1)70 darn.~~~~~~~t....1971.d  19~ d.
elnnaof hi grat  of total protein Pen day nrd 2N grams of aea1 aod                    Porticlslrit   eret       ou,eue   u   eanteiisino
poles prteinl, of shish 10 gram  should ho soll protnin.  Th...araud-                         actI itytRot a    optdn total, ..lo,  and femel  lao  force.i. as
arise  lone  than those of 75 gr-ma  a .tcra  protein sod 23 trans of-1                                                          .   f 1     o    1         Il,11'            t-y
acinelprotei  as o -vanan   ton thser-d   propon  by FAN in tho Third                  p1re60    ge 197 f natad   male and female IpoTpulat Ion ri  llsugat.tspnctiveb
gocld Fond Survey; 1961-6i, 1970 and 197 7data..190  1970, ant                                                     9)   us   teeac    Iepatcpainoae   efat
Pe  uit   rtein aoyfe aitl sod pulse  - Peoraio oupply af food de-                        n           f-turutor-o  Atrhe poPulntila. und bug tine trend.  A te-eti'
ri-ed foot asimal  and Pulses it  ra  pe  day; 1961-61, 1977 sod 1977 data.      tr; _oot fven-dasr Oftlo  -Rctis of popalaOi- under IS nod 65 and ove
Child I,ge- 1-4 tonaI~Wty tun    (tee_ thouad.             nuldahaprissn    t                      t  tettllbrtra
age grop i-yar, ta children in this  gs group; far n..r d-vispmnjoan
tein  data de-jod fros life tables;1960, 15ff and 1977 dora.                                TNCOME DISTRIBUTIONS
Pececor   t  raat orn  (boohin can  so,d kind) - keclvd byorichest
Liefeeisny  tgit  (ees                Average nethe  of yearn of life r-nitlag                  I  eoo,Irc tTNprot,pr c27 p00-tc, sad poorest 4l perce
atbith    6i  1f  an  1979 ina.c  househol.ds..
Inisact MttorlitYvfRe (ee    .b.ue-d) - huAs..I d-hse o  ifoosud-csnyO                        ePOVETY TARGNT GROUPS
ofse  pothusn  clire hircha                                                             isnmted Aheelato Puvety Iurao Level (US$ P.. ..Pit.) - nba  sod rorl1-
Acces o  ata Wte% (ef        sn of_ toolutiu)- total urban, and turu1 - N.                         Aboato p-or    os  leve  im  that Ieruno leelblmoi   amnia
Nether rIf peoPle (total, sehn  red rura) with ......able access to ante                        vtetinlydquo orpusnmtilu-tc eqiesasnnt
ese   nptly (-inudee treated sufaeetrIrutreted  bu  onstt  _                     od         afrdbt
eate  suh en 1that iro   prtectetd bthoehls  spig,adsntr  onlit) It                                                                                  "Pfstdtlrv    rctoIce  oa  IOTecala       ra   a   as 
pecetaLgoso  the in respective ppati-ns   Is an urban arsapublict,leinv    ovryboslvlc  oe-tbidofaegeyntpr
fuas... or taaudo     .. botdnomeethan20  mee            r  abac   a  be                par.era Income of oh,  -acry    irhuc love  is dert-d fere she roen1
rsIdtrdo   being sdhi  .e.. he  aoofta   oue                        ranlro
ensaahieacces eni irly tor te haseot a  r mahersof te hrurhrd  loel oth ojosoentfor  lifa  ose  of   ams   n uran aeas
donoghvernspe     a dsp bprn Ian     putt. .t the da  is. tecI .g   ...o             OurZintod vplarIls .. Atlfor Ahagite -tovett buion  tove  (rtea)-
-anilyb  mas  needs,                                                                            and rrali-Plrceth0t thuitihc   uthoiand eraifsbr erthuhnlarnpoor
rural -Number of peoplo  0total,t-b-e   n   ua)sre    yarr
dispal .. Ic psrc...tages of their repective  popuistione.  E-cota die-                                                          Istoic and toala1 D-o  Oltrein
poelay iuclud  the    1 r ..e.io  an d aisyos..l, 00th or  ithoutrn     `mae                                            to_el  Aoalysis and PtaiertaI Depsetmant
of beta  estoera nd macteester by eaten-borne systems or ohs as  otfcac19
Pin priviec and similarisa nos



fopupatlont   41 dIllon (.id-1979)                                                                          26 -                                                                 AINIX I
GNP pe, CapIta - US$460                                                                                                                                                          Pa oe 4  f 6
EGYPT - ECONOIilC INDICATORS
Aeount
rellion ASS                       ACTUAL ANNUAL GROWTTH RATE (at cOnstant 1975 orices)
(at current prices)
1979                        1975       1976      1977       1978       1979       19805,
NATI OAL ACCOUNTS
G,.oss loo-tie Prndoct/.                     17307.0                        8.4       11.3       6.1        9.0        8.0        7.0
AgricuIture                                3044.0                        3.5       l.5       -2.9        5.6        9.9        2.5
Indostry 6 Petrolece                      5696.0                        19.4      20.0      l0.1        9.2        8.4        10.4
Services                                  7264.0                         5.8       12.5       U.8       10.8        9.0        6.0
Consumption                                  14893.0                        0.4        3.1       6.3        4.5       14.0        9.3
Gross In-est..ent                            4988.0                        65.0        4.3      -2.2       28.0        1.3        8.0
Eoports of GNFS                              5315.0                        19.4       23.4      10.9       -3.5       -5.2        9.3
Imports of GNFS                              7889.0                        23.7       -3.9       3.2        4.2        7.1       11.0
Gross NotTonal Saving                        3482.0                        76.3      102.0       0.2       20.7        4.9
PRICES
GDP Deflator b/                                                           100.0      105.4    109.1       104.0      104.7      121.5
E-change Rate                                                               2.15       1.97      1.75       1.54       1.43       1.43
Sh-rn of GOP at  trakt PrITs- M%)                                                                      Avera- e Annual Increase (%) at co. nst  prices
(at curre....r.ct s 3                                                                                                            1..  PrIces
1960       1970       1975       1980                                                                            i L               1970-975   1975-1980
Gross Do-estic Product
- Agriculture                            27.9       25.3       28.2       21.3                                                                              4.7                5.1           2.1
-  Industry 6 Petrolue.                  23.7       26.1       25.4       34.7                                                                              3.0                2.6           11.4
-  Seroloes                              42.9       40.8       42.8       39.5                                                                              6.3                4.4           9.7
Co..,nptIoe                              87.3       90.6       90.4       88.8                                                                               4.4               8.0            7.4
Gross Innest-eet                         13.3       13.9       32.3       29.5                                                                              5.8                4.2            7.4
Eoport of GNFS                           19.5       14.2       21.5       43.9                                                                               4.9              22.8            6.5
Inport of GNFS                           20.1       18.8       44.1       62.1                                                                             1]'                13.5           5.0
Gross Natlosal Sovleq                    12.9        7.7        *;.9      17.3                                                                              7.2               17.2          22.3
As I of GOIP
1960       1970       1975       1980
PUBLIC FINANCE
Correct renenue                                     18.5       21.3       34.1       30.0
Correct eupenditure                                 21.5       22.0       39.9       34.9
Surp-l-s  1) or deficit  1-i                        -3.U       -0 7       -5.8       -4.9
Capital -upenditure                                 11.8       11.1       16.6       29.5
Foreign fleoccI.g                                     -         0.0       16.0        9.2
1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85         1985-90
OTHER INOICATORS
GNP grosth rate .%)                                   4.5        5.0        8.6
GNP per capita grosuth rate (%)                        1.9       2.7        6.3
Energy  .c.sueptlon gro th rate (1)                  14.9(1)   14.9(1)   13.2(1)
ICOR                                                    -          -        3.6
Mar-gnal sao-n9s r te                                    -          -       0.46
Import el-sticity                                     0.9        1.7        0.9
/a    At earkat prices; c.epo...ts are expressed at factor cost and wIll not add due to  -oolusion of net
IndIrect t0x0s *nd subsidles.
/b    Effactin  rote coeput.d as a olghted anerqge of the official aed pMrO l1.1 Merket rates.
L     Esti 5tes
(I)   ElectrIcIty ocly.                                                                                                                                            July 31, 1988



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Amount (million
US$ at current       Annual Growth Rates At Constant 1978 Prices
prices
1979         1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980 e/
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports          3835          17.4      7.1     3.0   - 1.1       0.4     6.0
-  Primary                 3245          12.0    25.4    17.1   - 2.4    12.4        9.0
-  Manufactures             590          24.5   -14.1   -20.9       2.2   -28.9    -5.1
Merchandise Imports          6919          22.5   - 3.5   - 4.6       5.8    10.9
-  Food                    1740          29.5    19.2   -29.8-  22.4    15.1         9.8
-  Petroleum                243         -34.4   -23.7   -53.1       2.8    16.8       -
-  Machinery and           2801          62.6    24.8    14.8       1,8    27.4    10.0
Equipment
-  Others                  2135          20.2   -26.2      6.1      1.2   - 7.8      4.9
PRICES
Export Price Index                         81.4    88.0    94.7   100.0   152.0   190.0
Import Price Index                         81.8    85.7    92.4   100.0   113.7   128.5
Terms of Trade Index                       99.5   102.7   102.5   100.0   133.7   147.9
Composition of Merchandise Trade    Average Annual Increase
(Z at current prices)                at constant 1978 prices
1975               1980                 1975-1980
Exports                     100.0               100.0                      3.2
Primary                    53.3               88.0                      12.0
Manufactures               46.7                12.0                   - 6.4
Imports                     100.0              100.0                       4.5
Food                       23.6               26.2                       5.5
Petroleum                   6.9                4.2                    - 28.8
Machinery and              23.7                35.7                     29.8
Equipment
Others                     45.8               33.9                    -  4.2
July 31, 1980



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
EGYPT - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTFRNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(milli_ t   rrent prices)
1974     1975      1976      1977      1978    1979    1980 e/
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export of Goods and Non Factor Services                         2251      2503      3319      3949     4053    5315    6780
-  of which merchandise f.o.b.                                1818      1875      2169      2404     2512    3835    5080
Imports of Goods and Non Factor Services                        3959      5141      5182      5765     6492    7889    9600
-  of which merchandise c.i.f.                                3618      4608      4659     4792      5434    6919    8400
Net Factor Income                                                  70      122       413       47n      1098    1067      785
Current Account Balance                                        -1638    -2516    -145n    -1346    -1341   -1507   -2035
Private Direct Investment                                          87      225       444       477      439      710      9o0
MLT Loans (Net)                                                  1725     2985      1680      2660      2n78    1420    1625
- official                                                    1515      2881      1556      2580     1957    1125    13n5
- private                                                      210       104       124        80      121      295      32n
Other Capital (Net)                                            -  97    - 752    - 628    -1600    -1113   - 586   - 490
Changes in Reserves                                                10       58      - 46     -Iqi       - 63    - 37
International Reserves                                           355       296       342       533      596      633
- of which gold                                                103       103       103       103      1n2      1n2
Reserves as Months Imports                                       1.1       0.7       0.8       1.1       1.1     1.0
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements                                             2227      3612      2305      3349     2812    1985       2350
Offical Grants                                                1303      1076       792       445      345
Concessional Loans                                             120      1444       668      1855     1600
-  DAC                                                          55       199       421       591      799
-  OPEC                                                          3      1142       171       137       Q3
-  IDA                                                          12        49        42        42       45
-  Others                                                       50        54        34     1085       663
Non Concessional Loans                                         804      1092       845      1049      867
-  official export credits                                     379       639       214        24       44
-  IBRD                                                         -         14        36        37       57
-  Other multilateral                                           -          6        -       256        18
-  Private                                                     425       433       595       732      748
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed                                  2810      4793      5724      8051     9879   11000
-  official                                                   1963      3852      4674     6761      8455    9450
-  private                                                     847       941      1050      1290     1424    1550
Undisbursed Debt                                                 1575     2370      2964      4434     4248    4500
Debt Service
Total Service Payment                                            516       594       664      1095      1207    1370    1840
-  Interest                                                     70       114       110      339       386      400     615
Debt Service Ratio  2/                                          21.0      21.4      16.8      23.5     22.0    20.2    22.6
Average Interest Rate on New Loans                               6.3       4.7       5.1       5.1       4.6     n.a.
Average Maturity of New Loans                                    17.2     18.5      23.3      18.7      27.9     n.a.
e/  Estimate
1/  Total amount of concessional and non-concessional loans is US$1875 million.   No further
breakdown is available.
2/  Total debt service payment/exports of goods and services excluding exports by foreign
oil companies.
3/  Includes service payment due on Arab loans
July 31, 1980



- 29 -                                     ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(December 31, 1980)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit       Approved                                                                    less cancellations
Numbers            FY          Borrower       Purpose                                 Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
Ln  243-UAR          60             SCA          Suez Canal Expansion                   56.5        --          --
Cr  181-UAR          70            UAR          Nile Delta Drainage                       --      26.0         1.8
Cr  284-UAR           72           ARE           Railways I                               --      30.0          --
Cr  393-UAR           73           ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage                     --      36.0         2.7
Cr  412-UAR          73            ARE           Development Industrial Bank 1/           --      15.0          -
Cr  423-UAR          74            ARE          Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation             --      18.5         2.6
Cr  437-UAR          74            ARE          Population I                              --       5.0          --
Cr  484-UAR          74            ARE          Talkha Fertilizer                         --      20.0          -
Cr  524-EGT          75            ARE          Ag/Ind. Imports                           --      35.0          --
Ln 1062-EGT           75           ARE          Ag/Ind. Imports                         35.0        --          --
Ln 1064-EGT           75            SCA          Suez Canal Rehabilitation              50.0        --        14.3
Ln 1085-EGT           75           ARE           Tourah Cement                          40.0        --         2.4
Ln 1098-EGT           75           ER            Railways II                            37.0        --         7.6
Cr  548-EGT          75            ARE           Telecommunications I                     --      30.0          --
Cr  576-EGT          76            ARE          Development Industrial Bank II 1/         --      25.0         0.3
Ln 1239-EGT           76           APA           Alexandria Port                        45.0        --        27.7
Ln 1276-T-EGT 2/    76             ARE           Fruit and Vegetable Dev.               50.0        --        33.9
Cr  637-EGT          76            ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage II                   --      40.0        17.3
Ln 1285-EGT           76           ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                10.0        --        10.0
Ln 1292-EGT           76           ARE           Textile Rehabilitation                 52.0        --        16.7
Ln 1369-EGT           77           AWA           Alexandria Water Supply                56.0        --        33.1
Cr  681-EGT          77            ARE          Education I                               --      25.0         4.3
Cr  719-EGT          77            ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                    --      27.0         8.1
Ln 1439-EGT          77            ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                  27.0        --        27.0
Ln 1440-T-EGT 2/    77             ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                  12.0        --        12.0
Ln 1453-EGT           77           EEA           Regional Electrification               48.0        --        17.6
Ln 1456-EGT           77           ARE           Industrial Imports                     70.0        --        23.8
In S-005-EGT         77            ARE           Iron Ore Beneficiation and Eng.         2.5        --         0.8
Ln 1482-EGT           78            SCA          Suez Canal Expansion                  100.0        --        33.2
Cr S-20-EGT          78            ARE          Water Supply Engineering                  --       2.0          --
Cr  774-EGT          78            ARE           Telecommunications II                    --      53.0        52.1
Ln 1533-EGT          78            DIB           Development Industrial Bank III        40.0        --        17.9
Cr  830-EGT          78            ARE          Agricultural Development                  --      32.0        27.3
Cr  831-EGT          78            ARE          Urban Development                         --      14.0       13.7
Cr  850-EGT          79            ARE           Populationi II                           --      25.0       23.1
Cr  868-EGT          79            ARE          Education II                              --      40.0        35.1
Ln  S-14-EGT         79            ARE          New Valley Phosphate Engineering
and Technical Assistance             11.0        --        3.3
Cr  909-EGT          79            ARE           Tourism                                  --      32.5       32.3
Ln 1732-EGT           79           ARE           Gulf of Suez Gas                       75.0        --        55.1
Cr  935-EGT           79           ARE           Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power         --      37.0       36.5
Ln 1733-EGT           79           EEA           Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power 3/102.0           --      102.0
Cr  988-EGT          sO            ARE           Agroindustries                           --      45.0       45.0
Ln 1804-EGT          B0            DIB           Development Industrial Bank IV         50.0        --       45.9
Ln 1837-EGT          80            ARE           Textiles II                            69.0        --       69.0
Ln 1842-EGT          80            ARE          MIDB                                    30.0                 30.0
Cr 1024-EGT          30            ARE           Cairo Gas Distribution                   --      50.0       50.0
Ln 1849-EGT          30            ARE           Pulp and Paper                         50.0        --       50.0
Ln 1886-EGT           sO           EEA           Power III                               7.0        --        7.0
Cr 1052-EGT          30            EEA          Power III                                 --    120.0       120.0
Cr 1069-EGT          81            ARE           Education IIL_                                   40.1       40.1
Ln 1298-ECT          81            EGPC         Petroleum Exploration                   25.0        -        25.0
Cr 1083-EGT           31           ARE           New Land Development                     -       80.0       80.0
Totals                                                                               1150.0    903.1    1257.6
Of which has been repaid                                                                65.3        .5
Total now outstanding                                                                 1084.7    902.6
Amount sold                                               7.5
Of which has been repaid                                  7.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                        1084.7    902.6
1/ Formerly Bank of Alexandria
2/ Third Window Loan
3/ Not included is EEC Special Action Credit 20 of $35.0



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(December 31, 1980)
(Amount in US$ million)
Year        Obligor                  Type of Business                           Loan        Equity        Total
1976        Arab Ceramic Company   Ceramic Industry                             4.80         .835         5.635
1977        Nile Clothing Company  Ready-Made Garment Industry                  0.43        0.16          0.59
1978        Delta Sugar Company    Agricultural Production, mainly
sugar                                  20.0         3.00         23.0
1979        Ismailia Misr Poultry  Food and Food Processing                     5.97        1.52          7.49
Company
1979        Ismailia Fish Farming  Food and Food Processing                     1.93         .55          2.48
Company
1980        Suez Cement Company    Building Materials                          30.0           -          30.0
1980        Crocodile Tourist        Crocodile Tourist Project
Project Company                                                  4.41         .857         5.267
67.54       6.922        74.462



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Project; US$26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970; Effectiveness Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date;
December 31, 1980
The only outstanding activity on this project is installation of
field drainage, which remains to be accomplished on about 4 percent of the
project area of 950,000 feddans. This work has been delayed, in part,
because of a shortage of cement. Work is complete on other major
components including some 1,700 km surface drains and eleven pumping
stations. While the outstanding work on field drainage is expected to be
completed by April 1981, the Bank informed the Government that the credit
was closed December 31, 1980.
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of
June 8, 1973; Effectiveness Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date; July 31,
1981.
Work is virtually completed on some 1,640 km surface drains in
300,000 feddan project area. Of the four pumping stations, two are
complete and progress is being made on the other two. Installation of tile
drains is more than two-thirds complete. Progress on this activity has
been slow because of inadequate management by contractors and recently the
shortage of cement. Bilharzia Control Program is proceeding as scheduled.
Progress on procurement is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effectiveness Date; February 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The project is estimated to be completed in 1982. Previous
substantial delays, primarily due to lack of adequate local funds, have
been overcome.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effectiveness Date; April 21, 1975; Closing Date: June
30, 1982
Project execution is generally satisfactory although some items
are lagging behind appraisal schedule. Contracts for most items in the
project have been awarded and the cost of Bank-financed items is expected
to exceed appraisal estimates slightly.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effectiveness Date; June 9, 1975; Closing Date; December
31, 1982
Procurement of machinery and equipment is completed. Most items
are already on site being erected. Slow civil works execution has further
delayed project execution. Thus start-up of commercial operations is
expected to be only towards early 1981.
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2,
1975; Effectiveness Date; August 20, 1975; Closing Date; June 30, 1981
Investment in mobile assets has been satisfactory but progress on
fixed installations is slow. The Egyptian Railways' (ER) operations and
maintenance situation remains very poor with low availability of
locomotives and rolling stock. The track renewal and repair program is
also behind schedule. Efforts are now being made to improve rolling stock
maintenance with the help of consultants and ER plans to set up separate
companies with overseas technical assistance to upgrade track conditions.
The 1980-84 draft investment program contains many large investments
including new lines for which no economic justification has been
demonstrated. The financial situation is poor and a deficit of LE 38
million was recorded for 1979. After many years without tariff increases,
substantial increases in freight tariffs were made in 1979, and passenger
fare increases are promised for 1981. A draft decree which would establish
a National Railway authority and aims to give the railways inter alia
considerably more autonomy in relation to tariffs and staff salaries is
under discussion.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effectiveness
Date; February 19, 1976; Closing Date; April 30, 1981
The credit is now fully committed and about $24.7 million has been
disbursed as of January 31, 1981.
Ln. No. 1239-ECT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effectiveness Date; August 30, 1976; Closing Date; March 31, 1981
Progress on the execution of the main civil works and dredging
contract is proceeding reasonably well although other civil works are
behind schedule. Procurement of most equipment is progressing
satisfactorily although the evaluation of bids for radar equipment is
behind schedule. Estimated final cost remains within appraisal estimates.
Because of the delayed start of the main civil works, the project is now
expected to be completed only by June 1982; the closing date of the loan
will, therefore, have to be extended.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date; December 20, 1976;
Closing Date; December 31, 1982
The project is now over two years behind schedule but is making
progress. Work on the drainage and irrigation components of the project is
proceeding and a large contract has recently been awarded. The seed
component has major problems, which the Bank has been discussing with
Egyptian officials to agree on revised modes of management. The
Agricultural Development Lending Unit in Bank Misr is attempting, with
assistance from the World Bank, to ensure that the various sub-borrowers
proceed with their respective investments, and to identify additional
sub-borrowers. The project scope has been expanded to allow financing of
agroindustries subprojects, and terms of financing liberalized.
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976.
Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Work is progressing in accordance with the revised schedule on
some 1,602 km of surface drains in 500,000 feddans. Overall progress is
about 57 percent. As compared to appraisal target of 260,000 feddans,
field drainage is complete on only about 25,000 feddans. This shortfall
has resulted from a delay of almost two years with USAID financed PVC
pipe-making factories. These factories are now in production and the
contractors have imported equipment for laying PVC pipes and gravel
envelop. This would accelerate the installation of tile drains. Contracts
for these drains have already been awarded covering the entire project
area. The Drainage Authority is also upgrading implementation control for
improving performance on tile drainage.
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20,
1976. Effectiveness Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The project is proceeding with a delay of more than two years
caused by a later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works,
shortage of steel and cement, and a recent fire on the construction site of
one of the two beneficiary companies. The project is now estimated to cost
about US$20 million equivalent (all in local currency) more than appraised,
due to increased scope of civil works and increase in cost of construction
materials beyond what was expected at appraisal. No difficulties are
foreseen in financing this, although some government equity contribution
would be required in the next two years to supplement the companies'
internal cash generation in order to adhere to the financial covenants as
well as project costs. Early management problems have now been overcome
and both companies have developed effective project implementation units.
Disbursements are slower than anticipated reflecting initial delays in
procurement. However, about 90 percent of the contracts for machinery and
equipment have now been awarded and the balance is expected to be awarded
in the near future.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effectiveness Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Bidding for all equipment has been completed and orders placed.
Management studies were completed in the Authority and AWA is implementing
some of the recommendations. AWA has called for bid proposals for new data
processing equipment. The award has been made for the civil works
construction of the Bank financed water treatment plant extensions and work
is expected to start shortly. Local bidding for 65 km pipeline contracts
have been completed and awards made to four contractors; these contracts
are now being financed with local funds. Satisfactory progress is being
made on meter replacement and reduction of waste and AWA's regularly
submitted reports reflect good general progress. An application for a
general tariff increase is with the Governor for consideration by the
Alexandria Local Council but approval is still pending.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effectiveness Date; August 19, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation, since the transfer of two MOHE institutes
to Credit 868, is proceeding satisfactorily. Curricular and staff
development, and technical assistance are essentially complete. About 95
percent of all equipment has been procured and nearly all has been
installed. Of the 23 institutions to be constructed 22 are completed and
operational, and the remaining one will be operational by June 1981. All
of the existing institutions being re-equipped are operational.
Commitments and disbursements total about 92 percent of Credit amount.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440-EGT - Nile Delta
Drainage II Project; US$27 million Credit, US$27 million Loan and US$12
million Third Window Loan of July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: April 17,
1978; Closing Date; December 31, 1983
Progress on surface drains is satisfactory with completion
achieved on about 290,000 feddans out of a total area of 815,000 feddans.
For construction of four new and renovation of two existing pumping
stations, the contractors have started civil works and procurement of
equipment is underway following award of contracts in December 1979. Four
contracts have been awarded for installation of field drainage covering 75
percent of the project area of 400,000 feddans. KfW is now not expected to
finance PVC pipe making factory and accordingly the Drainage Authority has
arranged supply of pipes using three mobile plants and making fuller use of
other production potential under their jurisdiction. The Authority is also
upgrading implementation control for improving progress on field drainage.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Ln. No. 1453-EGT -Regional Electrification Project; US$48 million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date; December
31, 1981
Physical progress is good. A six month delay in completion of
construction is expected, however. Consultants for the extension of the
UNDP Power Sector Survey have completed their work. Consultants for the
distribution companies are in place. All contracts for equipment,
materials and technical assistance have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project;US$70 million Loan of July
15, 1977; Effectiveness Date; November 7, 1977; Closing Date; June 30, 1982
As of December 31, 1980, about $46.2 million has been disbursed
and about $54.5 million committed. Utilization of the loan proceeds has
been slow mainly because of delays in procurement of equipment for public
sector firms.
Ln. No. S-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; US$2.5
million Loan of July 15, 1977. Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1978;
Closing Date; December 31, 1981
Consultants preparing both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies have submitted the final feasibility studies. The closing date was
extended to help finance consulting services to help prepare a
rehabilitation and balancing project for Egyptian Iron and Steel Company
and engineering work for pilot beneficiation plant.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effectiveness Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Progress in the execution of the project is close to appraisal
estimates although in some areas, such as procurement of tugs there has
been some delay because of delayed decisions on design which have now been
taken. The financial situation of the borrower is sound, total canal
traffic continues at levels close to appraisal forecasts and revenue is
higher than appraisal estimates.
Ln. No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40 million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily. As
of January 31, 1981, $22.2 million had been disbursed and the loan had been
fully committed.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53 million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date;
December 31, 1981
Procurement action under this credit is well advanced. Bid
evaluation reports on the two remaining items (mobile exchanges and
electronic PABXs) are awaited.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32 million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effectiveness Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date;
December 31, 1983
Project tractors have been procured and distributed.
Implementation is being reviewed to determine whether basic project
objectives have been met. Improvements in institutions and project
management are under consideration.
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Egypt Urban Development Project; US$14 million Credit of
August 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date; April 30, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
There has been progress in the staffing of the project unit,
although its technical staff needs to be augmented. Actions on
implementation of physical works and studies have been started in
accordance with an agreed schedule of tasks prepared in consultation with
IDA staff.
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25 million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date; May 1, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1983
Civil works and procurement of furniture, equipment and vehicles
are proceeding satisfactorily. All sites have been selected and
construction on over 50 (of 153 sites) is underway. Implementation of the
training program has started, while IEC implementation has had a slow
start-up, and about 40% of the home visiting program has been implemented.
Cr. No. 868-ECT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effectiveness Date; July 18, 1979; Closing Date: March
31, 1984
Project implementation is proceeding very well. Of the 23
institutions to be constructed, five are completed, another six will be
completed by mid-1981, 9 will be completed in mid-1983 and the three MOHE
institutes are expected to be completed on schedule by late 1983. All
equipment is under procurement with contracts already signed for about 50
percent. All technical assistance has been contracted and implementation
is about 9 months ahead of schedule.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Ln. No.S-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11 million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October
19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Procurement and delivery of mining equipment is underway and
erection has started at mine site; laboratory texts of phosphate rock have
been completed and reviewed by the Bank.  Draft terms of reference for
pre-feasibility study are being discussed with government.
Cr. No. 909-EGT - Tourism Project; US$32.5 million Credit of June 13, 1979;
Effectiveness Date; March 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation has started.
Ln. No. 1732-EGT - Gulf of Suez Gas Project; IIS$75 million Loan of June 29,
1979; Effectiveness Date: January 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Project implementation is in progress. The onshore contract has
been signed and the contractor has mobilized. The three studies included
under the project, the exploration and the energy pricing studies as well
as the financial management study are underway.
Ln. No. 1733-EGT - US$102 million, Cr. No. 935-EGT - US$37 million and
Special Action Cr. No. 20-EGT - US$35 million - Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal
Power Project of September 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Bidding documents for electro-mechanical equipment were issued in
December 1980.
Cr. No. 988-EGT - Agroindustries Project; US$45 million Credit of May 1,
1980; Effectiveness Date; December 3, 1980; Closing Date; December 31, 1985
With the credit becoming effective, project implementation has
started. Tenders for slaughterhouses are under evaluation.
Ln. No. 1804-EGT - Fourth Development Industrial Bank Project; US$50
million Loan of May 1, 1980; Effectiveness Date; August 8, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily. As
of January 10, 1981, $13.8 million had been committed and $4.1 million
disbursed.
Ln. No. 1837-EGT - Textile II Project; US$69 million Loan of June 4, 1980;
Effectiveness Date; (Not yet effective); Closing Date: September 30, 1984
Effectiveness action underway.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Ln. No. 1842-EGT - Misr Iran Development Bank Project; US$30 million Loan
of June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 31, 1980; Closing Date; June
30, 1985
The project became effective on December 31, 1980.
Ln. No. 1849-EGT - Pulp and Paper Project; US$50 million Loan of June 4,
1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: December 31,
1984
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Cr. No. 1024-EGT - Cairo Gas Distribution Project; US$50 million Credit of
June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 4, 1980; Closing Date: December
31, 1985
Contractor has been working since April 1980 and the project is
progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 1069-EGT - Third Education Project; SDR 30.3 million (US$40.1
million equivalent) Credit of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness Date; (not
yet effective); Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Ln. No. 1886-EGT, US$7 million, Cr. No. 1052-EGT, US$120 million - Third
Power Project of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness date; (not yet effective);
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Ln. No. 1928-EGT - Western Desert Petroleum Exploration Project; US$25
million Loan of January 13, 1981; Effectiveness Date; (Not yet effective);
Closing Date; December 31, 1983
Effectiveness action underway.
Cr. No. 1083-EGT - SDR 60.9 million (US$80 million) - New Land Development
Project of December 16, 1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective);
Closing Date; December 31, 1987
Action on effectiveness is underway.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country       Fifteen months (January 1979 to Marcb 1980)
to prepare the project:
(b) Agency which prepared           UnderSecretariat for Aquatic Resources
project:                        (USAR) assisted by consultants and FAO/CP
(c) Date of first presentation    December 1977 (identification report)
*to IDA.
(d) IDA missions:
(i)  Reconnaissance           July 1977
(ii)  Preappraisal             March 1980
(iii)\ Appraisal                April/May 1980
(e) Date of negotiations:           December 1980
(f) Planned date of                 July 1981
effectiveness:
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1. Conditions of credit effectiveness;
(i)  Establishment of the Project Unit in the Undersecretariat for
Aquatic Resources (USAR), including appointment of at least the
project manager, one engineer and one accountant (para. 48,
Development Credit Agreement, Sections 3.03 and 6.01);
(ii)  Submission of detailed proposals, satisfactory to IDA, for the
establishment of the Maryut Fish Farming Company (MFFC) (para. 50,
Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01 (b));
(iii)  Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and
the Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC)
on the individual credit component (para. 51, Development Credit
Agreement, Section 6.01(c)).



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
2. Other conditions;
(i) The Government would take satisfactory measures to control
pollution (particularly from adjacent industrial developments),
protect the environment, and safeguard human health and safety at
the Maryut project site (para. 39, Development Credit Agreement,
Sections 3.04 and 3.15);
(ii) USAR would establish a Coordination Committee for the project by
September 15, 1981, and appoint Training and Extension supervisors
by September 30, 1981 (paras. 47 and 49, Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.03 (c) and Schedule 2, Annex Sections 1 and 2);
(iii) The Government would extend the minimum term of lease for fish
farms from five to ten years, and allow sales of State land for
aquaculture purposes (para. 58, Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.10);
(iv) The Government and the Principal Bank for Development and
Agricultural Credit (PBDAC) would take all necessary steps to
establish the Maryut Fish Farming Company, as a private joint stock
company, by June 30, 1982, and transfer the Maryut fish farm's
assets to the company (para. 50, Development Credit Agreement,
Section 4.04);
(v) PBDAC would establish the Fisheries Credit Coordination Unit,
including at least a coordinator, fish farming specialist and
accountant, by September 30, 1981 (para. 51, Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.08 (a) and Schedule 2, Annex Section 5); and
(vi) PBDAC would relax its normal collateral requirements to accept
movable property and other fish farm investments, together with
long-term leases, as security for fish farming subloans (para. 51,
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.08).



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
M fDIT&?RAANEAN
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                     EA-  s A
PROJECT AREAS
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 30-
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                        Kt j,tA XI
the hnsean,ncs of the reopen \ s IofwIl 
boundeneshw onthoapt , %V O   on_ tOn  ntA /Z  W
World 8lmb and ;to ohhliltes, anyIS5J  i_ I_\ W 
dgntent ton trhen taldmh steIrns oftTwa>/\W
,EZ SHEIKH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
O  MAJOCR TOWNS           __AHUR  GOVERNORATE L B ANARIES   L
ES 0
| f\RAB REPUBLiC  \   \  5   _                        R3                            l                          \         , _~~~~~~wdgg
j   OF EGYP   A   W k    >   OADSt             RIERS                   ;                        \w \A
!  >  <  O MAJOR TOWNS _GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES % F \ .... 89 X ..... ] r e
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .  .   y) <C 
__ S U D A N \ 304 3! 4 \ 1 3F , X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S






ME DI trER R AN EA IV  Drain t   S E A                                                                                                             ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISH FARMING
-t SUMED\~to \0                                                                                                                                                      DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
<C    \                                                                                                                                                            MARYUT PROJECT SITE
y20>                                                                      \
J                                    ___                                                                                                                                       General Schematic Layout
___10___=                                                                   To Alexandria and El Mex Collection St,aion
0                                                    ___                    0                                                                          Main farm center
Gebel  Abu   Sir                               X          \                
Main canal
      --Main drain
FU-F1  Feeder/drain channels
0qw  0ier                                                                               $40XX -  Producions-  \                                                             / = __- ProductionProduction ponds (earth embankment)
Wintering ponds
Syphons
- ---- - -----                     (D    Pumping station
*     Pond inlet/outlet
o  Water control structuires
Proposed effluent pipeline
*  Field centers
,Malhet_ ___  Main roads
- -Proposed road
Bridges
---------                                       ----      -------    ---s of the reponto-2o-                   Contours  in   meters
-Twin oil pipelines
settlements
G  acceptance of, such boundaries 1                                                                                                                                      1o  21    2           3           4
KILOMETrRS
i m  30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SAC 6 2
Proectit         S      jz~JORIDAN
Cairo      all
ARAB                    SAUDI
0e                              ARABIA
REPUBLIC 
oTh~ -h eder o the report to oub,th f,s attached The -eoont,n  sd and fho                                                                                                I
boare hown on ths -en do not eplY, on the part of the Worlh Oath and 'I                                                                                               I
atllees any jssdro-t on the legal tat- oh any terrtory or any endoro-eno
-noP-tanc op noo basdries2ohUA-
28'0              36 



