Document of            ibL 6   I% WI
The World Bank                   L
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3114-EGT
EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
January 28, 1981
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Agriculture IV
Trhis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =          Egyptian Pound (LE)
US$1.43                   =          LE 1.00
US$1.00                    =         LE 0.70
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 feddan (fed)                  =           1.04 acres
I feddan (fed)                  =           0.42 hectares
1 hectare (ha)                  =           2.47 acres
I hectare (ha)                  =           2.38 feddan
1 millimeter (mm)               =           0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                     =           1.09 yards
1 square meter (m2)             =          10.76 square feet
I cubic meter (m3)              =           1.31 cubic yards
1 kilometer (km)                =           0.62 miles
1 kilogram (kg)                 =           2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)              =           2,205 pounds
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BDAC                      =          Bank for Development
and Agricultural Credit
CCF                       =          Consumption Conversion Factor
EPADP                     =          Egyptian Public Authority
for Drainage Projects
FCCU                      =          Fisheries Credit
Coordination Unit (in
PBDAC)
FMC                        =         Fish Marketing Corporation
IOF                       =          Institute of Oceanography
and Fisheries
M&E                        =         Monitoring and Evaluation
MFFC                       =         Maryut Fish Farming Company
NCAD                      =          National Committee for
Aquaculture Development
PBDAC                      =         Principal Bank for
Development
and Agricultural Credit
PIMU                      =          Project Implementation and
Monitoring Unit (in USAR)
SDR                       =          Special Drawing Rights
USAR                       =         UnderSecretariat for Aquatic
Resources (Ministry of
Agriculture)
WND                        =         West Nubariya Drain
GOVERNMENT OF THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND AND THE FISHERIES SECTOR                            .       .           1
A.  Project Background ........................................                          I
B.  Agricultural Policies and the Role of Fisheries ...........                          1
C.  Fishery Resources, Constraints and Development Plans ......                          2
D.  Fishery Institutions ......................................                          6
E.  Fish  Marketing and Processing .............................                         9
F.   Credit ....................................................                        11
G.   Previous Bank Involvement  in the Agricultural  Sector ......                      12
II. PROJECT AREAS                                      ..                                     13
A.  Physical Features .........................................                         13
B.  Population and Employment .................................                         15
C.  Land Use and Infrastructure ...............................                         16
III.   THE PROJECT ...................................................                          17
A.  Project Concept and Objectives ............................                         17
B.  Project Description .......................................                         17
Maryut Fish Farm ......................................                      18
Individual Fish Farmer Credit Scheme ..................                      19
Improvements to El Mex Fry Collection Station .........                      20
Training, Extension, and Monitoring and Evaluation ....                      20
Studies ...............................................                      21
Summary of Technical Assistance and Training ..........                      21
C.   Cost Estimates ............................................                        22
D.  Financing .................................................                         24
E.   Implementation Schedule ...................................                        24
F.  Procurement ...............................................                         25
G.  Disbursements .............................................                         27
H.   Status of Engineering .....................................                        28
I.  Environmental and Health Effects ..........................                        28
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                   ..                               29
A.   Organization and Management ...............................                        29
B.   Credit ....................................................                       33
C.  Accounts and Audits .......................................                        35
D.   Progress Reporting ........................................                        35
E.  Monitoring and Evaluation .................................                         36
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission which visited
the Arab Republic of Egypt in April/May 1980, comprising Messrs. A. Zulfiqar,
Y. Tang, and J. Wambia (IDA) and M. Malik (Consultant).
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION                 ..                    37
A.  Production and Yields .....................................   37
B. Markets ...................................................   38
C. Prices ....................................................   39
D. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries ...........................   39
Main Benefits ........................................   39
Beneficiaries ........................................   40
E. Financial Analysis and Repayment Capacity .................   41
F. Economic Analysis .........................................   43
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) .............. .........   43
Sensitivity Analysis and Project Risks ...............   44
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........................   45
ANNEXES
1. Maryut Fish Farming Company
2. Supporting Tables
T- 1 Consultancy Services
T- 2 Detailed Project Cost Estimates
T- 3 Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
T- 4 List of Equipment for Maryut Fish Farm
T- 5 List of Equipment for Credit, Training and El Mex Collection Station
T- 6 List of Equipment for Extension Services, Monitoring & Evaluation,
& Administration
T- 7 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
T- 8 Pond Fish Population Management
T- 9 Financial Model for 10 feddan Individual Fish Farm (Improvement)
T-10 Financial Model for Maryut Pond Operator
T-ll  Input Requirements and Prices
T-12 A.  Economic Costs and Benefits (basic run)
B. Sensitivity Analysis
3. Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
CHARTS
C-1 Project Organization Chart                                 World Bank 21922
C-2  UnderSecretariat for Aquatic Resources--Organization Chart  World Bank 21854
C-3  Planned Public Authority for Fisheries Projects
and Development -- Organization Chart                   World Bank 21855
C-4  Typical Cross-Sections and Water Levels at Maryut Fish
Farm Site                                                World Bank 21901
C-5  Implementation Schedule                                   World Bank 21853
C-6  Typical Layout and Cross-Section of Credit Scheme
Fish Farms                                               World Bank 21902
MAPS
1.  Project Areas                                              IBRD 15157
2. Maryut Project Site--General Schematic Layout               IBRD 15158



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND AND THE FISHERIES SECTOR
A. Project Background
1.01     The project, for which an IDA credit of SDR 11 million (about
US$ 14 million) is proposed, forms part of a program to develop inland
fisheries in and around the Nile Delta region of Egypt. IDA and FAO/CP
missions in July and September-October 1977 had originally identified a
project covering some 30,000 feddan!/ of land in the Delta.  Consultants
to the Government in 1979 (partly financed under IDA's Project Preparation
Facility) inspected nearly 150,000 feddan, carried out reconnaissance
surveys on about 35,000 feddan, and prepared designs for eventual
development of some 14,350 feddan for fish farming. However, IDA, in
coordination with FAO/CP, proposed a smaller project area of about 5,000
feddan (with some modifications in concept and design), which was basically
accepted by the Government. Following issuance of FAO/CP's final preparation
report, an IDA preappraisal mission visited Egypt in March 1980 and an
appraisal mission in April-May 1980.
B. Agricultural Policies and the Role of Fisheries
1.02     Agriculture continues to be the largest sector in the Egyptian
economy, generating about 23% of the GDP, about 40% of total employment,
and, directly or indirectly, about 70% of the country's non-oil export
earnings. However, productivity increases have been constrained by limited
land availability, rising water tables and increasing soil salinity in some
areas, and institutional weaknesses in agricultural credit, cooperatives,
extension and research. In addition, Government policy interventions
(maintaining low producer prices for many commodities and price-supply
controls on inputs) have effected a substantial net taxation of agriculture,
leaving very little surplus in the sector for private investment. As a
result of such factors, growth of real value added in agriculture has only
been around 2% per annum in recent years, or less than the population growth
rate. Declining per capita food production in the 1970's has led to rapidly
rising food imports and a net deficit in agricultural trade since 1974.
With increasing burden of subsidies and imports, food self-sufficiency at
"reasonable prices" is now the Government's primary development objective in
agriculture. The Five Year Plan for 1978-1982 aimed to achieve a 5.1% per
annum growth rate in agricultural output by allocating 8.6% of total public
1/ I feddan = 0.42 ha.



- 2 -
sector investment to the sector (LE 879 million, or about US$ 1.26
billion). Nearly 80% of this amount was earmarked for drainage, land
reclamation and new irrigation projects, and about 6% (just over LE 56
million, or USt 80 million) for fisheries development. In the rolling Five
Year Plan for FY1980-FY1984, the overall share of investment allocated for
agriculture has been increased significantly to over 12% of a total planned
investment of about LE 22 billion (US$ 31.5 billion).
1.03     The fisheries sector contributes about 1% of agricultural GDP and
provides primary income and employment to some 100,000 fishermen and fish
farmers (or about 3% of total agricultural employment), and temporary or
seasonal employment to an estimated 300,000 workers. Fish is a traditional
component of the Egyptian diet, accounting for 20-30% of total consumption
of animal protein. However, per capita consumption (about 5.1 kg) is very
low by world standards, mainly due to supply constraints. During the past
decade, domestic fish production increased at only about 1.2% per annum on
average, while population grew at about 2.4% annually and demand for fish
expanded at nearly 6.6% every year. As a result, fish imports rose rapidly
from only 2,400 tons in 1972 to 74,000 tons in 1979 and about 89,000 tons
expected in 1980, increasing at over 20% per annum in the last three years
alone. The annual fish import bill has now reached nearly US$ 60 million,
and is growing at almost 40% per year. Domestic fish production has been
virtually stagnant around 125,000 tons since 1977 and now accounts for less
than 60% of total demand. At the present rate of population growth, annual
fish availability would need to increase by some 60,000 tons by 1990 (over
and above some 214,000 tons in 1980) just to maintain present per capita
consumption. If, as appears likely, per capita consumption also continues
to rise as in the past, annual fish supplies would need to nearly double by
1990 over present levels. Recognizing the need to reduce the growing
dependence on fish imports and the opportunity for improving nutrition
through this relatively low-cost protein source, Government is according
high priority to fisheries development. Since growth potential from most of
the traditional sources of supply is limited, the best prospects lie in the
development of fish farming (aquaculture). There is, however, need for a
significant demonstration of modern aquaculture practices on both large
scale and smaller commercial operations. The proposed project is designed
to assist in such an effort.
C. Fishery Resources, Constraints and Development Plans
1.04     Fishery Resources.  Egypt's fishery resources are derived from
several sources, both within its hinterland and the seas. Marine resources,
supplying roughly 15% of annual fish production, lie in the Red Sea and Gulf
of Suez, the Eastern Mediterranean, and the high seas. Catch from all these
sources declined in the 1970's from a peak of 60,000 tons in 1964 to less
than 20,000 tons in 1978.  The continental shelf in front of the Nile Delta,
covering approximately 200 nautical miles along the Mediterranean coast, was
traditionally rich in fish resources (mainly shrimp and sardine). However,



- 3 -
with construction of the Aswan High Dam reducing the flow of nutrients
carried by the Nile to the sea, the Mediterranean catch dropped from its
peak of 31,000 tons to 9,800 tons in 1978. Catch from the Red Sea and Gulf
of Suez (9,000 tons in 1978, down from 18,300 tons in 1976) consists prin-
cipally of sardine, mackerel and herring. The mean sustainable yield from
these fishing grounds has not yet been estimated, but it is believed that
some increase in production is possible. A stock assessment is planned as
part of an ongoing FAO/UNDP project for small-scale fisheries development in
these areas. Other high seas fishing operations, mainly off the Mauritanian
and Moroccan coasts, have virtually ceased with the adoption of 200 mile
fishing limits and levy of high licensing fees on foreign vessels. Inland
water fisheries (excluding fish farming) are mainly derived from littoral
lakes, man-made lakes, and the Nile and its tributaries. Total registered
catch in 1978 was 89,000 tons, or about 72% of domestic output, with the
actual catch (including self-consumption) probably much higher. However,
the littoral lakes are already heavily fished and their area is being
progressively reduced with silting and reclamation for agriculture. Of the
two large man-made lakes, the catch from Lake Qarun has been declining
steadily due to rising salinity, while Lake Nasser's current catch (about
23,000 tons in 1978) is close to its estimated maximum sustainable yield.
Various studies financed by UNDP and other bilateral sources are currently
investigating the potential for further development of these lake areas.
1.05     Although fish farming has been practised in Egypt since ancient
times, it is still a relatively empirical industry and not very wide-
spread (partly due to direct competition with agriculture for land and
water), and the methods employed have tended not to change over the years.
Fish farms now cover an area of about 35,000 feddan, mostly in the Delta,
producing about 13% of domestic fish output. The Nile valley and Delta
offer several factors suitable for fish culture, including large tracts of
flat land too salty or alkaline for crop production, favorable climatic
conditions for growth of natural fish food in ponds, indigenous fish species
well suited to these conditions, adequate soil for water retention, and an
irrigation and drainage network providing good control of water flows.
Three types of fish are commonly used for culture in Egypt -- tilapia,
mullet and carp. Four species of tilapia are found indigenously --
niloticus, aureus, gallileus and zilli. Five mullet species -- cephalus,
capito, saliens, auratus, and labrosus -- also enter brackish waters.
Mullet is the main species cultured in fish farms, though tilapia, catfish
and Nile perch may enter with the water supply, and carp is available from
government hatcheries. The growing season is generally April to October,
with harvesting in November-December. Three main types of fish farming are
currently practised. (i) "Howash," a traditional system of enclosures in
natural lakes, represent the largest and most primitive type of aquaculture.
The system is basically that of a trap where existing fish are let in with
the water supply, kept in confinement (generally without feeding) for
several months, and then caught.  Although Government has prohibited howash
development, estimates of total area covered range from 30,000 to 100,000
feddan, producing perhaps 10,000 to 15,000 tons annually.  (ii)  A slightly
more advanced system is practised in shallow ponds (15-30 cm average depth)



- 4 -
surrounded by earth embankments, using low-lying areas formed by seepage or
saline tracts in agricultural lands. One estimate puts the number of such
fish farms around 600, with most ranging in size from 10 to 60 feddans,
though some are 300 feddan or larger.  Ponds are generally built by hand
and, in many areas of soft silty clay soils where erosion is a major
problem, they may be present only in outline, with the banks having to be
virtually rebuilt every year. Most such fish farms do not use manure or
fertilizers, and produce yields ranging between 150 and 350 kg per feddan.
Government attempts to license all fish farms (particularly for distribution
of feeds) but many are not so regulated. (iii) A third, more intensive
system, with nurseries and rectangular growing ponds over 60 cm in depth, is
practised on a more limited scale, mainly on governmental farms such as at
Abbasa and Manzala. Fish culture systems of mullet/tilapia/carp are used,
with supplementary feeding, but very few of these farms are currently run on
a scientific basis. Yields are low and variable, ranging from 500 to 700
kg/feddan (often over a growing period of upto 18 months).
1.06     Aquaculture Development Constraints.  Development of the aqua-
culture sector is currently constrained by several institutional and policy
weaknesses, which continue to hinder Egypt's transition from relatively
rudimentary fish farming practices to a well-structured and modern aqua-
culture industry. Apart from a general shortage of funds (especially
foreign exchange), the three most important of these constraints include
institutional weaknesses, unclear land use policies of Government, and shor-
tage. of inputs such as mullet fry and supplementary feeds. Institutional
weaknesses are manifested most obviously in the lack of coordination and
dissipation of responsibility for policies affecting the sector among
several ministries and agencies (see para. 1.10 below). These difficulties
are compounded by the extremely short supply of trained aquaculture tech-
nicians and fish farm managers. Due to limited operational experience in
intensive aquaculture, there is little knowledge of appropriate engineering
designs and feeding/fertilizer practices as a guide for future investment.
These institutional weaknesses are recognized by the Government as serious,
and are being addressed through training and applied research under a
USAID-financed program (see para. 1.09 below) and through a proposal now
under consideration to vest full responsibility for aquaculture development
in a new Public Authority for Fisheries Projects and Development (see para.
1.11 below). Unclear land use policies become apparent when each concerned
ministry (such as Irrigation, Agriculture, and Land Reclamation) has its own
separate plans for development of various uncultivated areas, especially in
the Delta, with sharply divergent views on the emphasis to be placed upon
fish farming versus agriculture.  The Government disallows sales of State
lands for fish farming but leases them out at very nominal charges, though
only for five years at a time.  These policies have tended to encourage fish
farming as a transitory stage in land reclamation for agriculture and
destroyed incentives for its development as a full-time industry. There is
a clear need for an overall Government plan or strategy defining land
utilization and allocation priorities. Recently, some studies have been
initiated by Government along these lines for particular areas, such as Lake
Manzala. In addition, under the proposed project, Government would extend



- 5 -
the minimum term of lease of State lands for fish farming from five to ten
years, and allow sales of State land for aquaculture purposes. Assurances
to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
1.07     Shortage of key inputs is the third major constraint on aquaculture
development. Currently, agricultural by-products (such as wheat bran and
rice bran) and feed concentrates (including cottonseed cake, molasses,
soybean meal, and imported maize) are rationed by Government and in high
demand from the livestock and poultry sectors. Although aquaculture
currently exerts little significant demand on available feed supplies, the
issue is complicated by Government's policies of subsidizing the sale of
feeds and requiring recipients to include carp in their fish culture system
and to sell up to 25% of their output below market prices. In view of these
factors, it makes sense for future aquaculture development in Egypt to
essentially concentrate on improving the natural pond environment through
application of fertilizers and cow and chicken manure. Another input in
relatively short supply is mullet fry. Annual demand for mullet fry has
been estimated around 35 million, and could rise to over 150 million if
official development plans are realized. The El Mex collection station
(near Alexandria), currently operated by the Institute of Oceanography and
Fisheries, produces some 10 million mullet fry annually. Considerable
activity, much of it illegal, is also evident at other major collection
points and innumerable smaller sites along the northern coast. The
UnderSecretariat for Aquatic Resources (USAR), which has sole official
responsibility for organizing fry collection, is currently trying to
strictly enforce regulations and provide a framework for allotting fry to
fish farmers. USAID is also assisting in establishment of two additional
collection stations on the coast, each with an annual capacity of some 30
million mullet fry, as well as a hatchery for controlled mullet fry
production. Further effective increases in mullet fry availability are
possible through better collection, handling, acclimation and transportation
procedures which could reduce fry mortality from over 80% at present to less
than 20%. The proposed project includes a component to introduce improved
collecting/conditioning procedures and facilities at the El Mex station (see
para. 3.07).
1.08     Development Plans.  Government plans to expand fish farming by
about 60,000 feddan and establish ten carp hatcheries over the next decade
or so. Currently, there are about 7,700 feddan of governmental fish farms
on seven sites (ranging from 700 to 2,000 feddan each) at various stages of
construction or operation. The major projects include expansion of the
Manzala farm from 300 to 1,000 feddan, completion of a 1,000 feddan farm at
Raswa and a 2,000 feddan farm at Bersik, and planned future construction of
a 2,000 feddan farm in Damietta governorate, and two 1,000 feddan farms (one
each in Dakahlia and Kafr El Sheikh governorates).  Hatcheries being cons-
tructed with bilateral assistance from West Germany and Hungary in Behera,
Sharkia and Kafr El Sheikh governorates are expected to produce nearly 75
million carp fry every year. The entire public sector program for fish farm
and hatchery development in 1980-1984 is expected to cost US$ 38.6 million
and to put up to 19,300 feddan of land under fish farms. Over the longer



- 6 -
term, assuming that existing engineering problems can be overcome econo-
mically, indications are that fertilized aquaculture might be possible on a
total of upto 100,000 feddan in ten to twenty years' time, producing a
maximum yield of perhaps 100,000 tons annually.
1.09     Several other aquaculture projects currently being implemented with
bilateral or multilateral assistance are also variously aimed at removing
development constraints and exploiting the potential in the sector. Under a
USAID-financed program now under execution, a National Aquaculture Center is
being established at Abbasa for training, applied research and improved
extension services. The program is also expected to finance two mullet fry
collecting centers, a mullet hatchery, two carp hatcheries, support for
marketing activities, and eventual development of 5,000 feddan of fish farms
in the Sharkia-Ismailia area. IFC is financing a private fish farming
project in Ismailia governorate, utilizing irrigation water, based on
Chinese aquaculture technology (with carp polyculture), and comprising about
1,200 feddan of nursery, half-grow and production ponds, and a hatchery. An
FAO/TCP project covering about 1,000 feddan at El Zaweya (in Kafr El Sheikh
governorate) was started in 1977 and is now virtually complete and partially
operational. Lessons from its implementation have been particularly useful
in design of the proposed project. Ongoing FAO/UNDP studies of Lake Manzala,
Red Sea and Gulf of Aden are specifically looking into the scope and
strategies for development of fisheries resources, including aquaculture.
The proposed project would be complementary to these efforts in the
lisheries sector.
D. Fishery Institutions
1.10     Administration.  Responsibilities in the fisheries sector are cur-
rently divided among several Government ministries and agencies in Egypt,
of which the most important are:  (i) the Ministry of Agriculture,
including the UnderSecretariat for Aquatic Resources, with overall respon-
sibility for development and conservation of fishery resources (except those
in Lake Nasser), and three State companies carrying out trawler operation
and import/distribution of fishing gear from Alexandria; (ii) the High Dam
Development Authority (responsible for Lake Nasser fisheries) under the
Ministry of Land Reclamation, Development and New Communities, which has
also assisted USAR in engineering work on its fish farming projects and is
coordinating the UNDP-financed Lake Manzala study; (iii) the Institute of
Oceanography and Fisheries (IOF) under the Academy of Science, which is
responsible for most of the scientific work currently being carried out in
the fisheries sector; (iv) the Ministry of Supply, which is responsible for
providing subsidized foodstuffs to consumers, including supplies of fish
through the Fish Marketing Corporation; (v) the Ministry of Irrigation,
which has recently become involved in aquaculture through its attempts to
rear grass carp as a means of weed control in canals; and (vi) the
governorates, which have general responsibility for provision of food to
their population and have been gaining increasing authority in such matters



as pricing, marketing, and land allocation policies.
1111    The UnderSecretariat for Aquatic Resources (USAR) is in charge of
the main administrative services dealing with fisheries. It has existed
under various names and ministries since 1961 and as a department of the
Ministry of Agriculture since 1976.  In the last three years, USAR has
managed an average investment program of about LE 3 million annually, mainly
in hatchery construction. It is currently organized into three operational
departments, i.e., Aquaculture and Projects, Land Leasing and Cooperatives,
and Field Offices and Extension (see World Bank Chart 21854). Major
activities of these departments (and eight regional offices) include
licensing of fisbermen, planning and administration of fish farm projects,
feed and fertilizer allocations, lease of reclaimed State lands (currently
about 7,100 feddan) to private individuals for fish farming activities, and
supervision and finance of fisheries cooperatives. USAR has little control
over its personnel hiring, and is short of technicians qualified and exper-
ienced in aquaculture and engineering. Of a total staff of 214 based in
Cairo (another 30 are working on various projects in the field), 98 are
university trained, of whom two are veterinarians, two engineers and three
science graduates. Most of the remainder have general agriculture degrees.
About 150 additional personnel in USAR's field offices are admin-
istratively responsible to their respective governorates. All employees are
subject to Government salary schedules that are well below the average pay
scale of private companies in Egypt, though some of the more experienced
professional staff receive upto 100% of their basic salary as additional
incentive. Government is currently considering various means for
reorganizing and strengthening fisheries administration, particularly the
coordination among various agencies. A higb-level National Committee for
Aquaculture Development (NCAD) was set up recently to provide overall policy
guidance and coordination in the aquaculture sector.  NCAD is headed by the
UnderSecretary for Aquatic Resources and includes senior representatives
from the Ministry of Land Reclamation, the Institute of Oceanography and
Fisheries, and the Fish Marketing Corporation. Other institutional measures
being contemplated by Government include establishment of a semi-autonomous
Public Authority for Fisheries Projects and Development (see World Bank
Chart 21855) to take the place of USAR and provide a strong supportive role
to the sector, with responsibility for major works such as port facilities,
fish farms and fish markets, as well as cooperatives, technical development,
exploratory fishing, demonstration, extension, training, fishery statistics,
etc. With a planned professional staff of 212, including an engineering
section, such an Authority, if created, would enjoy greater freedom than now
available to USAR in staffing, finances, personnel compensation, and control
over field offices and project preparation and execution, thus enhancing
both its efficiency and effectiveness.
1.12     Extension.  Although USAR has an extension department, its main
activity has been dissemination of information about new and amended regula-
tions. Little distinction is made between training of fish farmers,
regulatory activities (such as licensing, collection of lease charges, feed
allocation, etc.), and extension, all of which are carried out by the same



- 8 -
staff, hardly any of whom are qualified in aquaculture. There are no
research results or innovations available for demonstration or as the basis
for practical advice to fish farmers.  The result has been that extension is
weak, ineffective, over-shadowed by other activities, and of little value to
fish farmers. Decisions are taken in Cairo and are expected to be imple-
mented without flexibility in the field. Individual initiative is not
particularly encouraged, and poor field allowances further cut down on
motivation of extension workers. There is little systematic contact with
fish farmers or feedback about their needs.  The effectiveness of extension
is also impaired by a severe shortage of transportation and equipment.  Fish
farmers occasionally approach staff of the Institute of Oceanography and
Fisheries (IOF) for technical guidance but this practice is not systematized
or regular, and, in any case, most IOF staff tend to be academically
inclined and are less effective in giving practical advice. Under the
USAID-financed project now under implementation, a strong extension compo-
nent will be incorporated into the program of applied research at the
National Aquaculture Center at Abbasa. The proposed project also includes
components for technical assistance to strengthen extension services, and
training and increased mobility for extension workers in order to assist
them in effectively reaching fish farmers covered by the project's credit
scheme (see paras. 3.06 and 3.08).
1.13     Research.  Practically all fisheries research is undertaken by the
Institute of Oceanography and Fisheries (IOF), which is organized partly by
discipline and partly along geographical lines. The Oceanography Department
at the University of Alexandria and the Hydrobiological Institute at
Alexandria also have programs in fisheries research. Research has mainly
been carried out on such subjects as lake shore protection methods, optimal
fish feed ratios, fry acclimation, and stocking densities. The results are
usually published in the form of Masters' or Ph.D. degree theses or journal
articles, but rarely in a language suitable for practical extension work.
Some seven students graduate from the IOF with Masters' degrees and two with
Ph.D.s every year. Its professional staff, mostly located at eight field
research stations, includes 25 senior scientists (all Ph.D.s) and 20 assis-
tant scientists (mostly science graduates, some with Masters). In 1977, IOF
had an annual budget of LE 70,000, about one fourth of which was allotted to
inland fisheries and aquaculture research. Its studies have resulted in
some mesh size regulations, licensing of fishing vessels, and efforts to
control fishing in certain areas. However, there is no continuing eval-
uation of the present fishing effort, its effect on the natural resources,
or its future development potential. In aquaculture, particularly, IOF's
work has been highly restricted and experimental, with academic researchers
working in isolation from farm production problems. There are indications
that programs of work are now beginning to be modified to focus more on
actual fisheries problems and aquaculture issues. However, a major
reorientation in approach has still to be forthcoming.  The need for this is
particularly apparent since IOF has almost all the country's qualified
manpower in fisheries.  The USAID-financed National Aquaculture Center is
expected to develop as a cynosure for applied fish farming research by IOF
and other institutions in the region.



- 9 -
1.14     Education and Training.  Optional courses in fisheries biology are
offered to undergraduate and graduate students in the veterinary, science
and agriculture faculties at the Universities of Alexandria, Cairo and
Zagazig, as well as at the Institute of Oceanography and Fisheries. About
ten IOF staff receive training abroad each year. Lower-level education is
provided to about 30-40 students annually at the Anfousy Secondary School
for fisheries and mechanics in Alexandria, offering a three-year curriculum
in fisheries biology, navigation, etc.  However, few of the graduates
trained in aquaculture end up working for USAR, partly because there is
little matching of qualifications of new staff to posts in Government
ministries. USAR also provides training for its own staff and individual
fishermen. Since 1977, forty-day courses have been held jointly with IOF
twice a year for USAR staff, and week-long courses once every year for
fishermen and fish farmers, each course accommodating about 25 persons.
However, the training function has been constrained by limited funds (only
LE 10,000 budgeted for seminars in 1980), poor equipment, and shortage of
trainers.  Some USAR staff have also been sent on short study tours abroad
under bilateral arrangements with Hungary, India, Taiwan, Philippines, and
(earlier) the U.S.S.R. The USAID-financed National Aquaculture Center at
Abbasa would assist in preparing the specialized personnel required for
long-term aquaculture development on a large scale. Training to be provided
abroad includes 45 degree courses (35 Masters and 10 Ph.D.s) and 140 months
of study tours for about 30 persons. However, since the UtSAID program is
not expected to produce enough trained manpower to meet even its own require-
ments before 1985, the proposed project includes a training program to meet
its needs for trained pond operators and technicians (see para. 3.08). In
addition, training of Egyptian personnel on the job would be one of the
major objectives of the project.
E. Fish Marketing and Processing
1.15     Fish distribution in Egypt is handled by two main channels -- just
over half the volume by a large number of individuals in the private sector,
and the rest by the public sector represented by the Fish Marketing Corpora-
tion (FMC) and consumer cooperatives acting as agents of the Government.
The public sector also provides some of the marketing infrastructure (mostly
the central urban markets), and governorates sometimes intervene, with
varying degrees of success, to control the regional movement of fish. Out
of about 214,000 tons of fish expected to be marketed in 1980, more than 40%
each would be contributed by imports and littoral lakes, nearly 8% by fish
farms, and the rest by marine sources and the Nile. Of these sources, the
Government controls some three quarters of all imports, one fourth of lit-
toral lakes production, 10% of marine sources through its high seas trawler
operations, and nearly 20% of fish farm production through its own farms and
through consumer cooperatives purchasing from private fish farmers at
controlled prices.  FMC has been given exclusive rights to market fish
production from Lake Nasser. It also handles most fish imports, and period-
ically purchases fish from the private sector for resale at lower (10-20% or



- 10 -
more) prices. Deficits on sale of subsidized fish are covered partly by
Government subsidies to FMC and partly by profits from sale of imports. The
company owns a wide distribution network, including wholesale markets in
Cairo and nine other governorates, and some 600 retail shops. Fish from
Lake Nasser is transported to Cairo in rented railway cars (only some of
which are refrigerated). FMC also owns a fleet of about 150 trucks (some
refrigerated, others merely insulated).
1.16     The private sector, which is partially organized into cooperatives,
handles the bulk of fish produced from littoral lakes, fish farms, the Nile
and its tributaries, with minimal government control. Typically,
wholesalers' agents (mostly from Cairo) come to buy fish from fish farms at
harvest time, and sell it to retailers by an auction process. Catch from
other sources is also either auctioned to wholesalers' agents or supplied
directly to intermediaries who have financed the fishermen.  The fish is
transported in shallow, wooden boxes and open, general purpose trucks, often
packed too tight and with insufficient ice. Transport facilities, either
owned by wholesalers or available on rent from trucking companies, however,
appear adequate, and distributor margins (about 20% for wholesalers and 10%
for retailers) are reasonable. The private sector also operates some
wholesale markets alnd numerous retail outlets. Although the fish generally
arrives at consumer centers in a reasonable state, handling and sale
conditions vary from good to totally inadequate, partly due to defective
infrastructure and poor staff training. Very few markets and private shops
have proper cleaning and drainage facilities, and stalls are often in
varying stages of disrepair.  The Ministry of Public Health has established
hygiene regulations for storage and sale of fish, but there is no effective
enforcement of these standards.  There is little doubt that fish marketing
and quality can be substantially improved by such measures as providing
adequate buildings with raised benches for display of fish, abundant fresh
water, ice, plastic boxes, drainage facilities, and a permanent staff
responsible for hygiene, cleaning and waste disposal. A major weakness at
present is the lack of a clear organization and responsibility for market
management and control. The proposed project will finance a study to
thoroughly investigate the current marketing system and organization and
recommend improvements which could benefit the entire fisheries sector (see
para. 3.09).
1.17     Almost all domestic production is marketed (often the same day as
it is caught) as fresh fish, for which there is a distinct consumer prefe-
rence over frozen fish. Output from fish farms, in particular, receives a
premium in the market for freshness.  However, a substantial processing
capacity exists within both the public and private sectors. Both sectors
sell cooked fish (grilled or fried) in addition to fresh. Salted fish is
consumed in large amounts by the armed forces and the general public. Some
shrimp freezing and sardine canning is also carried out. The total available
cold storage capacity is difficult to determine precisely, since the
statistics do not always distinguish between ice-making plants and cold
stores. FMC has several cold stores, mainly located in and around Cairo and
Alexandria, with a total capacity of at least 26,000 tons. The private



- 11 -
sector also owns major multi-purpose cold store facilities in Alexandria,
Cairo, Port Said and Ismailia, with smaller facilities in each governorate.
The exact capacity available for fish storage is hard to identify, but,
based on available statistics, it appears well in excess of demand, part-
icularly since production from fish farms generally comes on to the market
during the slack winter months.
F. Credit
1.18     The Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC),
together with its 17 affiliated Banks for Development and Agricultural
Credit (BDACs), an extensive network of nearly 5,300 branches and agencies
and a total staff of over 20,000, is by far the major primary source of
institutional credit to agriculture. PBDAC was thoroughly appraised under
two previous IDA-financed projects (Credits 830-ECT and 988-ECT). It has
recently begun to venture into new development fields, including fisheries,
although experience and expertise in this subsector are still very limited.
A few loans have been granted to fishermen operating in lakes and coastal
areas for the purchase of boats and equipment, and some investment loans to
fish farmers (particularly in Damietta governorate). Traditionally, the
bank's approach in medium/long-term lending was based entirely on very
stringent collateral requirements, such as land, buildings, machinery and
other tangible assets, with virtually no appraisal of production potential
and future repayment capacity, and little supervision of the loan
portfolio. The Agricultural Development Project (Credit 830-EGT) is
providing technical assistance to train PBDAC's staff in general project
appraisal and supervision, and the Agroindustries Project (Credit 988-EGT)
will strengthen its specific capabilities to identify, appraise and
supervise agroindustries projects. The proposed fish farming project will
gain from these institution-building efforts and complement them through its
own training program for PBDAC staff in aquaculture investment appraisal
(see para. 3.08).
1.19     Agricultural interest rates are regulated by the Government as an
instrument of development policy, and do not necessarily reflect market
conditions or the availability of capital. In recent years (particularly
since 1975), there has been a gradual upward trend in interest rates toward
more realistic levels but, with continuing inflation, interest rates in
agriculture have remained negative in real terms. In a recent policy
statement, Government has reaffirmed to the Bank its recognition of the
important role of interest rates in both investment allocation and resource
mobilization, and its strategy remains one of aligning domestic prices and
interest rates closer with world markets. Most medium/long-term loans to
the agricultural sector are now made for a period of 5-10 or more years,
with the subborrower contributing some 10-20% of the investment amount.
Interest rates currently range from 6% on loans for fisheries, livestock and
other priority areas ("food security" activities), 8% for farm machinery,
11% for agroindustries, to 12.5% for all other investments in agriculture.



- 12 -
Rates for short-term production credits are more highly subsidized,
currently being 4% for a typical nine-month loan or an effective annual rate
of 6.5% (including administration fee). In the fisheries sector, USAR
operates a Cooperative Fund (capital: LE 870,000) which provides
interest-free credits to cooperatives for boats, equipment and fishing gear,
charging one-time commissions of 1% for short-term loans, 3% for medium-term
loans (upto 10 year repayment), and 5% for long-term loans. However, fish
farmers have not so far had access to the Fund's resources and have had to
rely upon loans on standard terms from PBDAC. Four fish farmers'
cooperatives have recently been established to assist members in obtaining
loans from PBDAC through mutual guarantees (in addition to subsidized feeds
and leased lands from USAR).
G. Previous Bank ILjvolvement in the Agricultural Sector
1.20     The Bank's policy in the agricultural sector has been to encourage
Government to maintain and increase production levels in the old lands, and
particularly to support the drainage program in lower and upper Egypt to
prevent a decline in land productivity on account of rising water tables.
This has been financed through a series of four drainage projectsL'
(covering 2.8 million feddan of irrigated area), all of which are currently
progressing satisfactorily, although behind schedule.  The Agricultural
Development Project (Credit 830-EGT) is a pilot attempt to raise produc-
tivity in two governorates by increasing the level of farm mechanization and
strengthening agricultural credit, cooperatives and extension services.
implementation of this project is behind schedule, a major problem being
that legislation to amend the status of cooperatives is held up in
Parliament. The Fruit and Vegetables Project (Loan 1276-EGT) includes
financing for a seed farm, completion of the West Nubariya Drain, credit to
fruit and vegetable processors/exporters, and associated activities.
Implementation problems have resulted mainly from management and
institutional weaknesses and a substantial reduction in fruit and vegetable
exports. The Agroindustries Project (Credit 988-EGT) includes financing for
small and medium sized agroindustries and replacement of municipal slaugh-
terhouses in Cairo and Alexandria. The loan has just recently become
effective; it is still too early to assess the likely impact of the
project. The New Lands Development Project -- West Nubariya (Credit
1083-ECT), approved recently, would provide financing for reclamation of
24,000 feddan for intensive agriculture (including settlement of 4,000
smallholders) and related services and facilities. The proposed fish
farming development project would be the Bank's first involvement in the
fisheries subsector in Egypt. Nevertheless, lessons from implementation and
experience with contracts under the above projects (particularly drainage
and credit) have been of some assistance in design of the proposed project.
1/ Credit 181-EGT (1970), Credit 393-EGT (1973), Credit 637/Loan 1285-EGT
(1976), Credit 719/Loans 1439-1440-EGT (1977).



- 13 -
II. THE PROJECT AREAS (IBRD Maps 15157 and 15158)
A. Physical Features
2.01     Location and Topography.  The base of the Nile Delta extends along
the Mediterranean coast from Alexandria in the west to Port Said in the east
(a distance of about 250 km) and about 160 km from Cairo at the apex. The
land is very flat, with an average gradient of 1 in 10,000. The Nile River
flows to the sea through its Delta in two main channels and numerous small
interconnecting channels, drains and canals. A number of large shallow
brackish/saline lagoons (Manzala, Burullus, Idku, and Maryut) are located
along the northern boundary of the Delta, usually separated from the sea
only by low sand banks. The proposed project's credit scheme would cover
four governorates (Behera, Kafr El Sheikh, Sharkia and Damietta) which
together comprise more than half the total area in the Nile Delta region and
contain about 21,000 feddan (or 60% of the estimated total) under fish
farms. The Maryut project site (see IBRD Map 15158) is located in a valley
(about 27 km long and 3.5-5 km wide) extending westwards from Lake Maryut,
some 26 km southwest of Alexandria and just outside the northwestern tip of
the Delta. The valley is generally very flat, varying between +3 m and -3 m
relative to mean sea level, and is bounded by two ridges, Gebel Maryut on
the south and Gebel Abu Sir on the north, upto 30 m high. Part of the
valley bottom is a shallow salt lake (with the water area varying seasonally
and depths from 0.3 m to 1.3 m), which forms a transition zone for catchment
water flowing eastwards to the Malhet (Salt) Lake through inverted syphons
under the Alexandria-Cairo highway and the West Nubariya Drain (currently
under construction). The project site itself is an area 1.75 - 2 km wide
and some 6 km long, situated on a low central ridge of rocky knolls
bisecting the valley, and is bounded on the east by the West Nubariya Drain.
2.02     Soils and Climate.  Originally a pleistocene gulf of the Mediter-
ranean, the Delta has been formed by alluvium deposits of silt, sand and
gravel (with average depth over 20 m), varying in texture from silt clay
loam to silt loam and loam. The silt soils are generally very fine and soft
when saturated; if sun dried, they can form a hard dry crust, but will
usually revert to their soft texture when subjected to further saturation,
thus making it difficult in many cases to construct stable, low-maintenance
earth embankments. These conditions in most of the Delta may be contrasted
with the extremely saline environment and lack of recent alluvial or marine
sediments at the Maryut project site. A thin surface layer or crust of salt
over much of the valley is underlain by a layer of soft blue grey organic
silt and clay 10-250 mm thick, and also shell beds in some areas. The
ridges are formed mostly by limestone and miliolite of the Alexandria
formation, which also underlie the colluvial, alluvial and marine sediments
in the flatter lake bed area. Most of the material for embankments under
the proposed project will be obtained from miliolite/colluvium from the
central ridge, with some material obtained from channel excavation. The
climate of the Delta zone and the adjoining Mediterranean coastline differs
considerably from the remainder of the country. Rainfall is very low and



- 14 -
irregular, varying from about 180 mm in Alexandria to only 30 mm annually in
Cairo. Winters (November through March) are mild with an average tempe-
rature in January of just over 10C and an average summer temperature (May
through September) varying between 260C on the coast and about 30C in
the Cairo area. At the Maryut project site, annual mean temperature is
estimated to be 20.60C, about 75% of the average rainfall of 160 mm occurs
in the three winter months of November-January, and annual evaporation is
estimated at 1,590 mm.
2.03     Water Availability and Quality.  Irrigation water systems in the
Delta are generally fully committed to agriculture, so that drainage water
is often the only feasible source of supply for aquaculture development.
Sufficient quantities of drainage water are available for this purpose,
varying in salt and chemical content according to crops grown and types of
disease control in surrounding areas. The West Nubariya Drain (WND,
scheduled for commissioning by mid-1982) would be the source of water supply
and drainage sink for the Maryut fish farm. WND is designed to ultimately
drain an irrigated area of 280,000 feddan (some two thirds of which is
already under irrigation command), with a normal discharge of 39.9 m3/sec
(at the fish farm's offtake)and capacity for emergency flows u to 67
m3/sec. Water available at the beginning of 1983 will be 22 m /sec, or
more than five times the maximum project requirement of 4.1 m3/sec, with
sufficiently high levels being built up to supply the fish farm by gravity.
Under the project, a low weir structure is proposed for construction in WND
(at the fish farm offtake point) to provide additional level control at low
flows which are likely during the early years of operation.
2.04     The observed salinity of drainage water in the WND catchment area
falls in the range of 4-5 parts per thousand (ppt), which is above that in
most parts of the Delta but well within the tolerance limits of the fish
species to be cultivated. Since cotton is not a major crop in this area,
pesticide use is relatively limited. Most chemicals currently used as
pesticides in these areas are of low toxicity to fish life and short lived,
and application methods appear sufficiently well organized to minimize
contamination of drainage waters. At present, no herbicides and
molluscicides are applied in these areas. However, the concerned
departments in the Ministries of Agriculture, Irrigation and Health would
closely liaise with the Maryut fish farm to ensure vigilant monitoring of
the use of chemical products (particularly molluscicides) in present and
future reclaimed areas served by WND. Pollution from discharge of
industrial effluents into WND poses a potentially more serious threat to
fish health.  An industrial Free Trade Zone is being established just south
(i.e., upstream on WND) of the project site, and other industrial
developments are also planned in the immediate vicinity. Effluent treatment
facilities with internationally accepted standards are planned for the Zone,
with each plant required to treat its effluent to 95% of safety limits and
then pass it through a central treatment facility before discharging into
WND.  It is impossible to predict at this stage, without knowing the exact
industrial processes to be used, the types and quantity of effluent to be
discharged from the Zone.  However, in order to protect the quality of



- 15 -
drainage water supplied to the Maryut fish farm, Government would: (a)
prevent establishment in the area along WND south of the Maryut site
(including the Zone and surrounding industrial areas) of industries
producing wastes (such as heavy metals, phenols, ammonia, cyanide and
chlorine) that could be detrimental to fish health, either by direct
toxicity or indirectly through tainting; and (b) require all industries in
surrounding areas outside the Zone to pass their effluent for secondary
treatment through the Zone's treatment facilities. In addition, the treated
effluents would be carried from the Zone through a 3 1/2 km long pipeline
(to be financed under the proposed project) to discharge into WND one km
past the offtake of the main canal at Maryut.  Control would also be
maintained over other developments (involving likely discharge of industrial
and domestic urban wastes) planned within the WND watershed. In the unusual
case of sudden pollution and water quality emergency, the Maryut fish farm
would have access to fresh water for dilution purposes from the Nubariya
Canal which has an escape lock opposite km 28.4 of WND.  Assurances on the
above were obtained during negotiations.
B. Population and Employment
2.05     Population.  About two thirds of Egypt's total population is
located in the Delta region, and, although the land is very productive, a
great majority of the people are extremely poor.  Population in the four
governorates covered by the proposed project's credit scheme is generally as
dense as in the rest of the Nile Delta, except in scattered areas where land
reclamation is not yet complete.  Together, these four governorates
contained about 7.4 million people in 1978, with Sharkia (2.74 million)
being the largest in terms of population, followed by Behera (2.6 million),
Kafr El Sheikh (1.47 million), and Damietta (580,000). There is hardly any
significant population at the Maryut project site itself, since it is
virtually under saline water for most of the year. However, there are some
25 villages and hamlets on the periphery of the project site, with a
combined population of about 16,500. The nearest medium-sized town is the
servicing center of El Ameriya (1976 population: about 47,000) about 3-4 km
to the south. Habitation along the ridges to the immediate north and south
of the site is sparse and scattered, consisting mainly of some 200 Bedouin
families.
2.06     Employment.  Given the very small industrial base in the Delta and
the fact that some 75-80% of the population is in rural areas, agriculture
provides employment for the bulk of the labor force. About 2,000 persons
are estimated to be working full time on existing fish farms in the four
governorates to be covered by the proposed credit scheme. Also, since peak
labor demands for fish farming (during stocking and harvesting) coincide
with slack periods in agriculture, this helps to reduce seasonal unemploy-
ment. Women perform an important function in rural areas, working on
regular agricultural tasks (crop or animal husbandry) and in food marketing
activities at all levels, but less so in fisheries. This is because
fishing has traditionally been a male occupation, and because of the physi-



- 16 -
cally strenuous nature of most pond operations. However, women often help
during harvesting and participate actively in fish marketing, sometimes from
farmgate to retail level. In Alexandria governorate, in which the Maryut
project site is located, most of the economically active population is
employed in the industrial and service sectors. About 3,000 people are
working on agricultural reclamation schemes south of Maryut. The local
Bedouin population around the Maryut site is composed of nomadic
pastoralists grazing camels and supplementing their income with employment
and trade in surrounding areas.
C. Land Use and Infrastructure
2.07     The Delta zone, about 3.5% of the whole of Egypt in area, is an
intensely cultivated region with its year-round irrigation producing up to
three crops. However, since all the canal systems are fully committed, the
scope for further agricultural development in the Delta is extremely
limited. Due to a combination of low rainfall, high evaporation, inundation
by highly saline water, and saline soils, the Maryut project site is
generally devoid of agricultural development except scattered salt marsh
plants. While the clay soils are suitable for embankment construction, they
would be difficult to reclaim for agriculture even if economical methods
could be developed to increase their permeability. Water in the Nubariya
Canal, some 15-20 km away and the nearest source of irrigation, is already
fully committed. Hence, there are no plans for large-scale agricultural
development in the Maryut valley. Some low-yielding rainfed agriculture is
practised along the northern slopes of Gebel Abu Sir ridge (to the north of
the project site), where extensive fig plantations are interspersed with
some barley cultivation. Quarries along the summit of the ridge also supply
limestone material, while about 800,000 tons of natural salt are extracted
annually from the bed of Lake Maryut to the west. There is also a military
installation on the ridge, with a small arms firing range whose safety zone
extends partly into the project area. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that Government would take all necessary measures to safeguard
the health and safety of inhabitants and workers in the Maryut project area
(whicb could include, if necessary, closing down or altering the direction
of the firing range). From archaeological evidence, it is certain that the
present level of land use and habitation in the Maryut area is considerably
less than it was in Roman and pre-Roman times. An area including the
ancient town of Marea west of the project site is currently being excavated
by the University of Alexandria; a small part to the northwest of the site
has also been excluded from the project to allow archaeological
investigation. However, since almost all the project area would have been
under water in historical times, there is very little likelihood of finding
important new sites there. The Alexandria-Cairo desert road, with frequent
bus services, is the principal highway in the Maryut region and passes
within one km of the project site. Potable water and electricity supplies
are limited but currently being expanded to supply the Free Trade Zone and
other industrial developments. Enough surplus would be available to meet
the relatively modest requirements of the project. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the Maryut fish farm would be allocated sufficient
electricity and potable water supplies for its needs.



- 17 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Concept and Objectives
3.01     The proposed project is intended to be a demonstration program of
commercial aquaculture development on both a large and small scale in Egypt,
utilizing land and water with no better alternative use (under currently
known technology). The concept is based on a fish culture system whose
basic productivity is generated within its own ecosystem by maximizing the
use of solar energy fixed in the water by nutrients coming from the soil
(assisted by fertilization). The pond provides the essential environment
for the fish, and the greatest degree of efficiency is achieved by
appropriate selection and management of species with complementary feeding
habits, so that each ecological niche in the food chain can be occupied and
maximum use made of natural pond food growth.
3.02     The main objectives of the proposed project are to:  (i) increase
production of fish, alleviate nutritional deficiencies through this low-cost
protein source, and save foreign exchange; (ii) utilize land and water
resources with little or no alternative use; (iii) assist in replacing
traditional aquaculture practices with more modern and intensive production
techniques; (iv) increase productivity and incomes of the rural population
by provision of credit and extension services, and provide greater employ-
ment opportunities particularly during slack agricultural periods; and (v)
contribute toward institution-building in the aquaculture sector through
technical assistance and training in pond operation, extension, credit ap-
praisal, monitoring and evaluation, etc. Selection of the project areas and
size was made on considerations of land availability and suitability for
embankment construction and the need to make a sufficiently large develop-
mental impact within the constraints imposed by local implementation
capabilities. The project is intended to serve as a model for future
aquaculture development in Egypt and has potential for wide replication in
areas where soil and water conditions are unsuitable for crop production.
It has high priority in the Government's development plans and is in line
with the Bank's strategy for assisting agricultural development in Egypt.
B. Project Description
3.03     The project would consist of the following components:  (i)  estab-
lishment of fish farm facilities on about 3,100 feddan at Maryut, including
a main supply canal, main drain, pump station, supplementary feeder
channels, production and wintering ponds, administration and storage buil-
dings, housing, transport and operational equipment, etc.; (ii) provision of
medium/long-term credit for improvement or establishment of about 100



- 18 -
individual fish farms spread over a total area of about 1,800 feddan in four
Delta governorates; (iii) improvements to the existing mullet fry collection
station at El Mex; (iv) provision of additional facilities and equipment for
training at the existing El Zaweya fish farm (and other appropriate training
sites), and strengthening of extension services; (v) fish marketing and
proiect preparation studies; and (vi) technical assistance for supervision
of construction and fish farm operation/management at Maryut, extension,
monitoring and evaluation, and training. Agreement on equipment lists and
phasing and design standards for project works was reached during
negotiations.
Maryut Fish Farm
3.04     Description.  The project would finance construction of a fish farm
covering some 3,100 feddan (about 1,300 ha) in the Maryut valley, including
more than 180 km of earth embankments, a pump station and supporting
infrastructure. The farm layout would consist of 214 rectangular production
ponds and 12 wintering ponds (with total water area of 2,440 feddan and 53
feddan respectively), divided into six homogenous blocks, each of which
would comprise two wintering ponds and between 26 and 38 production ponds.
The nonds would be orientated with their longitudinal axes approximately
NE-SW, which is roughly at right angle to the prevailing wind direction, in
order to minimize wave heights and thus bank erosion. Water would be
diverted by gravity from the West Nubariya Drain (WND) through a main supply
canal, distributed to ponds through six feeder/drainage channels (one for
each block), and lifted back via a main drain by pumping into WND. Four
electric-driven inclined pumping units, housed in a masonry structure of
conventional design, have been provided for. However, sufficient
flexibility would be built into the detailed designs and tenders to allow
adoption of any practical alternative (such as vertically-mounted
diesel-driven axial flow pumps). Each production pond would be about 12.3
feddan or 5.2 ha large (515 m long and 100 m wide), with a net water area of
11.4 feddan and average water depth of 1-1.2 m, allowing ease of management
and enough income and employment for an average operator's family. The
project would finance construction of six field centers (one for each block
of ponds), with office and input storage facilities. In addition, a main
farm center would include an administration building, soil-water analysis
laboratory, market building, four housing units, storage and repair sheds,
etc. Construction of family housing for about 250 pond operators and
technicians would be financed at nearby El Ameriya town. The houses would
be of minimal standards, clustered in a village with essential
infrastructure and some community facilities (along the lines of settlements
under the New Lands Development Project--Credit 1083-EGT, but without
provision for individual livestock stables, or service facilities already
available at El Ameriya). The project would provide four buses, four
station wagons, 11 pickups and 16 motorcyles for staff transport, as well as
trucks, tractors, portable/mobile pumps, and miscellaneous aquaculture,
maintenance and office equipment. The project would finance construction of
a 3.5 km long pipeline to carry treated industrial effluents from the
adjacent Free Trade Zone to a point on WND about one km downstream (i.e.,



- 19 -
north) of the main canal offtake.  Finally, since the construction and
operational methods to be followed include features which are new to Egypt,
the project would finance 33 manmonths of construction supervision services
by an international firm of consulting engineers, 36 months' services of an
experienced aquaculturist/pond management advisor to assist in initial pond
operations and on-the-job training, four months' services of a financial
management consultant, and 10 manmonths of short-term consultants in
aquaculture engineering, harvesting methods and other specialized topics as
needed.
3.05     Operations.  The project's aquaculture system would be based essen-
tially on growth and efficient utilization of natural food production in the
ponds. The two principal species groups -- tilapia (mainly niloticus) and
mullet (cephalus and capito) -- are both indigenous and widely cultured in
Egypt.   Filling of ponds would begin after initial fertilization every year
in March, after which pond water depths would be gradually increased to an
average of 1-1.2 m in May, and maintained at that level by topping up to
compensate for evaporation and seepage losses. Fertilizers (mainly cow and
chicken manure from nearby areas) would be applied and selective cropping of
fish carried out periodically throughout the season.  Harvesting in the
November-January period would be by total drainage, after which pond bottoms
would be dried and treated. Fish that are not yet of marketable size would
be kept in wintering ponds until the following season. Typical
cross-sections and water levels at the Maryut farm site are shown in World
Bank Chart 21901.
Individual Fish Farmer Credit Scheme
3.06     The project includes provision for medium/long-term loans to about
100 individual fish farmers on some 1,800 feddan located in various parts of
four Delta governorates -- Kafr El Sheikh, Behera, Sharkia and Damietta.  In
addition to assistance in constructing new ponds or deepening existing ones
to an average 1 m depth, each fish farmer would receive credit for building
a small storage shed and wintering ponds, installation of a pump and other
water control facilities, and purchase of a pickup for transport. Most
medium/long-term loans are expected to be given for 10-30 feddan fish
farms. About 60% of these are likely to be used for improvement of existing
fish farms (which have an average depth of about 30 cm) and the remainder
for establishment of new farms.  In some instances, where irrigation water
is easily available and soil conditions are appropriate, it may also be
possible to integrate land use for fish and crop production, using excess
excavated earth from ponds to elevate adjoining agricultural land, thereby
improving its drainage and facilitating leaching of salts from the soil over
time. Sufficient flexibility would be built into the credit scheme to allow
such variations in investments.  Pond sizes, depths and water distribution
systems on individual fish farms would be determined according to site
specific features, but the improved aquaculture technology to be extended to
these fish farmers would essentially be the same as at the Maryut fish
farm. Typical fish farm layouts are presented in World Bank Chart 21902.



- 20 -
Improvements to El Mex Fry Collection Station
3.07     The project includes financing for a building, indoor concrete
cisterns, a water supply system, two pick-ups, nets and other gear to
improve operations at the El Mex mullet fry collection station near
Alexandria. Mullet fry survival rates are currently as low as 20% or less,
mainly because the fry are too delicate to withstand collection by hand
scoop nets, and diurnal temperature fluctuations of 3-10C (common in
Egyptian climatic conditions) against which shallow ponds provide little
insulation. Improvements to the El Mex station would be primarily aimed at
increasing the catch and reducing mortality before shipment. For this
purpose, the station's own staff would be made responsible for fry col-
lection, and suspension fry nets (widely used in Southeast Asia) would be
introduced. These are basically triangle scoop nets, with two long wings,
which would be set across the canal to trap the fry into a floating box
net. Fry would be kept in the box net in extremely crowded conditions for
several minutes and then released to an indoor conditioning cistern without
feeding. This treatment would be repeated several times within 2-3 days
before shipment. Water salinity in the cisterns would be kept constant at a
range of 1/7 - 1/5 of sea water. Fry quality improvements, including
species sorting, size grading and disinfection treatment would also be
effected in these cisterns.  The project would finance the services of a
mullet fry collection expert for a total of four months to assist in
designing the facilities and setting up the improved operations at El Mex.
Training, Extension, and Monitoring and Evaluation
3.08     The project would finance technical assistance and expanded facil-
ities for training at the existing governmental fish farm at El Zaweya,
which is designed for intensive deep-pond aquaculture on a large scale. It
is currently being used, with FAO/UNDP assistance, to train a core of aqua-
culture technicians who could be employed for the proposed project.  Most of
the necessary infrastructure, including ponds, hydraulic facilities, office,
classroom, laboratory and workshop, has already been built. The proposed
project would provide financing for additional housing and transport facil-
ities and miscellaneous equipment (mainly at El Zaweya but possibly also at
other appropriate fish farms). Several categories of training would be
carried out, all being designed on completely functional lines to initially
meet the project's own specific needs. Pond operators, research staff and
extension workers would be trained for three months each in fish culture
systems and farm construction and management techniques, and PBDAC staff for
four weeks in fish farm project appraisal and business planning and bud-
geting. The project includes financing for 24 months' services of an
experienced aquaculturist/pond manager to assume overall responsibility for
these training programs, and eight manmonths of short-term consultancies for
training/advice in aquaculture engineering, economics, credit appraisal, and
other special topics as needed.  In addition, the project would provide 24
manyears of fellowships and six manyears of short-term study tours abroad
for training in various aspects of fish farm business management and
production technology. Six manmonths of consultant services would also be



- 21 -
financed to assist in setting up an effective extension service in the -four
governorates covered by the project's credit scheme, and six manmonths of
consultancy to design and implement project monitoring and evaluation
systems. One station wagon, four pickups and eight motorcycles would be
provided to extension staff, and one station wagon, four pickups and other
equipment to assist in monitoring and evaluation work.
Studies
3.09     The project would finance 18 manmonths of consultancy services to
carry out a fish marketing study, which would inter alia conduct an in-depth
review of current practices, systems, facilities and organization for trans-
portation, marketing and processing in the fisheries sector, including the
relative roles of public and private sectors and the effects of Government
interventions in pricing, procurement, etc. The study (to be completed by
September 30, 1982) would look into the projected supplies of fish likely to
be coming on to the market from all sources annually through the year 2000,
and make recommendations on investments in facilities and adjustments in
organization, procedures, regulations and government policies to maximize
efficiency and resource allocation in the sector. The project would also
finance a project preparation study, including 36 manmonths of consultancy
services, with the aim of strengthening USAR's capabilities for project
identification and preparation and PBDAC's subproject appraisals in the
aquaculture sector. The consultants (mainly experts in aquaculture,
engineering and economics) would initially assist and train PBDAC staff in
fisheries subproject appraisal under the proposed project's credit
component, and subsequently help USAR in defining an overall strategy for
aquaculture development, and prepare future projects to be implemented by
USAR in line with this strategy. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that terms of reference for both the above studies would be
cleared with IDA no later than September 30, 1981, and that Government would
agree with IDA on appropriate measures to be taken to implement the studies'
recommendations.
Summary of Technical Assistance and Training
3.10     The project includes provision for the costs of twentyfour manyears
of university training fellowships (at US$ 20,000 per manyear) and six
manyears of study tours (at US$ 30,000 per manyear) overseas for Egyptian
personnel in various aspects of aquaculture technology and management, for a
total base cost of US$ 660,000. Also proposed for financing are a total of
some nineteen and one-half manyears (235 manmonths) of consultancy services
for technical assistance under various components, at an average base cost
including professional fees, travel, and per diem of US$ 128,400 per manyear
and total base cost of US$ 2.5 million. This includes about 50 manmonths of
consultancy services for detailed engineering work and preparation of tender
documents for the Maryut fish farm, already being financed under the Project
Preparation Facility. An additional US$500,000 in foreign exchange under PPF
has already been utilized for financing consultant services to prepare the
project feasibility study, and is not included in the technical assistance



- 22 
estimates nece.  DLails cS cosut-s expected to be hired under various
con.ponents a-s-e :-  2.ne                Tne various consultants would be
_,C-;loY'   Le   r;e-e,Oief   2s  co-:._iti.ons, and with qualifications
anad experie.nce sas-,         '   A           r to ensure coordination of work
c,' individ ial spe c iS X tan s  , Ia     searnvices under the project would
preFerably be acquired tnrouh os-e or -'wore fircos established and experienced
in aquacuiture-related actilesi  The ez-ercs for training at El Zaweya,
mullet fry co' -ectio*n, exLe-S7cn, c:St-UCtiCr sunervision, and the fish
marketing and project pre,a--arion studies, would all be appointed no later
than Sepzembe-r 30, 10-81.  TI'e monitoring and evaluation expert would be
appol-ntec ro later thani Dezember 31 , 1981, and the aquaculturist/pond
management advisor at Maryut no later than December 31, 1982.  Assurances on
the above were obtained furc negotiaLions.
CO Cost Estimates
3X11     Total cost of the -r3ject, including physical contingencies and
expected price -ncreases, is estiriated at about LE 18.4 million (US$ 26.3
million), with a foreign exchange component of US$ 14 million or 53%.  The
cost estimate is based on December 1980 prices and includes taxes and duties
computed at LE 1.3 mill-4on (US$ 1Ks million). Civil works estimates are
derived from costs of Drojects under execution or planned (mainly in the
irrigation/drainage sector) and are based on local availability of basic
construction materials (cement, steel, R.C.C. pipes, bitumen, etc.).  Equip-
ment cost estimates are based on price quotations from suppliers, cross-
checked with the prices of comparable units recently purchased or currently
being procured by various agencies.  Consultants' base costs have been
estimated at US$ 10,700 per manmonth on average, including US$9,100 per
month foreign cost (professional fees, overhneads, travel and overseas
allowances) and US$1,600 per month local cost (subsistence, local
transportation, local office and other operating expenses).  Physical
contingencies (to ailow for possible design variations) have been assessed
at 15% of the cost of civil works, and 5% of the cost of services and
equipment. Cost of spares (estimated at 20% of purchase price) has been
included in base costs for: ecu-ment. Price cont-ingency estimates assume
increases in local currency costs of 15% in 1981, 12% in 1982, and 10% per
annum thereafter (based on expected domestic inflation), and in foreign
exchange costs of 9% in 1981. 8% in 1982, and 7% per annum thereafter.
Project cost estimates are summarized in Table 3.1 below and detailed in
Annex 2, Table T-2.



- 23 -
Table 3.1: SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES
Item                      Local    Foreign    Total        Local   Foreign    Total       Foreign
___----- (LE'000) --------       -------(US  '000)-----       Exchange
Maryut Fish Farma-/       3,702.2   4,185.8   7,888.0   5,294.2  5,985.7  11,279.9           53
Worker Housing              442.6      295.0     737.6      632.9    421.9   1,054.8         40
Effluent Pipeline            90.6      135.9     226.5      129.5    194.4       323.9       60
Individual Fish
Farmer Credit Scheme   1,021.8   1,507.2   2,529.0   1,461.2  2,155.3   3,616.5            60
El Mex Fry
Collection Station          66.8      83.3      150.1       95.5    119.0       214.5      55
El Zaweya Training
Programb/                  173.0     783.6      956.6      247.4  1,120.5   1,367.9        82
Extension Services           78.7       84.9     163.6      112.5    121.5       234.0       52
Monitoring &
Evaluation                  45.3      82.9      128.2       64.7    118.6       183.3      65
Project Preparation
Study                      40.4      229.0      269.4       57.8    327.5      385.3       85
Fish Marketing Study         20.2     114.5      134.7       28.9    163.7       192.6      85
Project Administration    143.7        66.9      210.6      205.5      95.7      301.2      32
Base Costc/              5,825.3   7,569.0  13,394.3   8,330.1 10,823.8  19,153.9           57
Physical Con-
tingencies (10.4%)        725.2      670.7   1,395.9   1,037.0    959.1  1,996.1           48
Price Contingen-
cies (24.5%)            2,089.7   1,529.1   3,618.8   2,988.4  2,186.5   5,174.9           42
Subtotal                 2,814.9   2,199.8   5,014.7   4,025.4  3,145.6   7,171.0           44
Total Project Costs      8,640.2   9,768.8  18,409.0  12,355.5 13,969.4  26,324.9d/    53
a/  Includes consultant services, including US$ 1 million IDA advance under the Project
Preparation Facility, half of which assisted in financing the project feasibility study,
and the remainder is for detailed engineering designs and preparation of tender documents.
b/  Including fellowships and study tours.
c/  At estimated December 1980 prices.
d/  Cost estimates include about US$ 1.8 million of taxes and duties.



- 24 -
D. Financing
3.12     The proposed credit of SDR 11 million (about US$ 14 million) would
be on standard IDA terms. This amount includes an advance of US$ I million
already approved by IDA under the Project Preparation Facility, of which USt
500,000 is for detailed engineering designs and preparation of tender
documents, and the remaining USt 500,000 assisted in financing the project
feasibility study. The credit would finance about 53% of total project cost
(100% of the foreign exchange component), or about 57% of total cost net of
taxes and duties. Of the remaining project cost, Government would finance
about US$ 9.7 million (37%), PBDAC about US$ 1.4 million (6%), and bene-
ficiaries (individual fish farmers) about US$ 1.2 million (4%). The net
contribution to project cost by Government after taxes and duties would be
US$7.9 million. Individual beneficiaries of investments in the credit
scheme fish farms would contribute at least 20% of the relevant costs of
this component. Contributions by PBDAC would constitute less than 2% of its
total lending, and contributions by the beneficiaries are unlikely to cause
them any severe financial burden. Assurances will be obtained during
negotiations that the financing plan for the project would be as discussed
above. The project financing plan is set out in Table 3.2 below.
Table 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Amount
LE million      US$ million       %
IDA                                       9.8            14.0/a         53lb
Government                                6.8             9.7           37
PBDAC                                     1.0             1.4            6
Beneficiaries                             0.8             1.2            4
Total                                    18.4            26.3          100
/a  US$ 500,000 of this amount has already been utilized for financing the
project feasibility study.
-b IDA's share of project costs net of taxes and duties is about 57%.
E. Implementation Schedule
3.13     Project works would be implemented over the five year period,
1981-1985. For the Maryut fish farm, preparation of detailed designs, spe-
cifications and tender documents is expected to be completed by July 1981,
and contracts awarded by December 1981. Allowing three months for
mobilizing, actual construction would start by April 1982 and finish in
about 25 months by January 1984. Construction of the pump station



- 25 -
represents the most critical activity in this schedule, both in respect of
equipment procurement and civil works. Two out of the six production pond
blocks, along with the corresponding lengths of main canal and main drain,
should be completed and functioning by April 1983 with the help of portable
pumps. Expenditures in 1985 would be mainly for investments in credit
scheme fish farms and administration of the Maryut fish farm. The project
is expected to be completed by December 31, 1985.  The estimated schedule of
expenditures for the project is summarized in Table 3.3 below and detailed
in Annex 2, Table T-3. An implementation schedule for construction of works
and other actions under the project is laid out in World Bank Chart 21853.
Table 3.3: SUMMARY SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES
Calendar Year
1981      1982       1983       1984       1985
Expenditures               ------------------US$ million---------------
Annual                     3.8        8.4        6.5        4.4        3.2
Cumulative                3.8        12.2       18.7       23.1       26.3
F. Procurement
3.14     The agreed lists of equipment and works to be procured under the
project are detailed in Annex 2, Tables T-4 to T-6. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the procurement procedures outlined below
would be followed under the project (all cost figures include contingencies):
(i) Equipment and vehicles to be purchased by USAR and PBDAC (about US$
1.9 million total) for transport, training and other purposes would be
procured (with exceptions noted below) following international competitive
bidding procedures in accordance with IDA's guidelines. Local manufacturers
of equipment and materials would be allowed a 15% margin of preference or
the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower. Equipment would be bulked
to the extent possible. Equipment which cannot be suitably bulked and other
small items costing less than US$ 30,000 equivalent each up to a total limit
of US$ 500,000, may be procured by USAR and PBDAC through local competitive
procedures (which are satisfactory to IDA), with solicitation of bids from
at least three suppliers whenever practicable. Foreign firms are
well-represented in Egypt and would be allowed to participate in local
competitive bidding. Proprietary equipment (mainly spare parts) estimated
to cost in the aggregate up to US$ 500,000 equivalent may be purchased off
the shelf from reliable suppliers.



- 26 -
(ii) Transport equipment and pumping sets for the individual fish
farmer credit scheme (about USt 2.1 million) would be procured by benefi-
ciaries of subloans under the project through regular commercial channels
under the close supervision of PBDAC. Bulk procurement of this equipment
would be impractical and inefficient because of dispersion over a
wide geographic area of the large number of potential investors, each of
whom would wish to purchase according to his own needs and brand prefe-
rences. Adequate competition exists among domestic and foreign suppliers of
such equipment in Egypt. PBDAC would assist subborrowers in identifying
alternative sources of equipment supply.
(iii) Civil works, including pump station equipment, for the Maryut
fish farm (about US$ 10.3 million total) would be tendered by USAR under
international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with IDA's guide-
lines. The entire works (earthmoving, pump station and other infrastruc-
ture) would be awarded as a single contract in order to attract large
contractors and ensure effective overall coordination and efficient manage-
ment, which are essential for timely project implementation and start of
operations. The consulting engineers recently hired to prepare detailed
designs and tender documents for the Maryut fish farm (see para. 3.16) would
also assist in evaluation of bids. In addition, technical assistance would
be provided under the project to supervise construction of these works.
Government would declare the proposed project a "food security project" to
ensure adequate and timely supply of cement, steel, bitumen and other
materials to the successful contractor.
(iv) Civil works under the individual fish farmer credit scheme (about
US$ 3.2 million total) would be procured by beneficiaries of subloans
through normal commercial channels under the close supervision of PBDAC.
These civil works would be unsuitable for international competitive bidding
(and unlikely to attract foreign bids) because of the different sizes and
dispersion of works over a wide geographic area, and the phasing of
contracts over five years. USAR would be responsible for approving all
designs and providing technical supervision during construction of these
works.
(v) Civil works under other project components (about US$ 2.3 million
total), including bousing, training and fry conditioning facilities, and the
effluent pipeline at Maryut, would be procured by USAR on the basis of local
advertising and competitive bidding procedures, which are satisfactory to
IDA. These works would be unsuitable for international competition because
of the different types of construction required, the phasing of contracts
over five years, and the relatively small size of each contract.
(vi) Consultants for the various forms of technical assistance under
the project (about USt 3.1 million) would be appointed by USAR and PBDAC
following procedures, on terms and conditions, and with qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA.



- 27 -
The US$ 3.4 million of project cost not covered by the above procedures
relates to the remaining costs of project administration, training, etc.,
and includes US$500,000 in foreign exchange already spent under the Project
Preparation Facility. In all cases of procurement, bidding documents for
contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more would be cleared
with IDA before tendering.
G. Disbursements
3.15     The IDA credit would be disbursed over five years as follows:
(i) 70% of subloan amounts disbursed by PBDAC to individual fish
farmers (SDR 2.2 million, or about US02.7 million);
(ii) 40% of the cost of all other civil works (SDR 3.2 million, or
about US$4.1 million);
(iii) 100% of foreign expenditures on other machinery and equip-
ment, or 100% of local ex-factory costs, or 80% of total
costs if purchased locally (SDR 1.8 million, or about
US$2.3 million);
(iv) 85% of expenditures on consultant services (SDR 1.5
million, or about US$2 million);
(v) 100% of foreign expenditures on fellowships and study tours
(SDR 650,000, or about US$800,000);
(vi) 100% of expenditures out of the Project Preparation
Facility (SDR 800,000, or about US$1 million); and
(vii) Unallocated (SDR 850,000, or about US$l.1 million).
Withdrawal applications would be supported by standard documentation.
Savings, if any, at completion of the project would be cancelled. An esti-
mated schedule of disbursements is summarized in Table 3.4 below and
detailed in Annex 2, Table T-7. The closing date of the IDA credit would be
December 31, 1986.



- 28 -
Table 3.4: SUMMARY SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Fiscal Year
Disbursements                   1981    1982    1983   1984   1985   1986
---------------(US  Millio) --      -------
Annual                          0.8/a    1.4    3.2    3.7        3.2   1.7
Cumulative                      0.8       2.2    5.4    9.1    12.3  14.0
/a  At least US$ 0.5 million out of the advance from Project Preparation
Facility was disbursed prior to FY 1981.
H. Status of Engineering
3.16     The project at Maryut, as originally prepared, was based on consul-
tants' field surveys and investigations, and supported by detailed designs
and costs to pre-tender level. As a result of the preappraisal and apprai-
sal missions, several major changes were introduced in the underlying
concepts of the Maryut fish farm, including a smaller total area, gravity
water supply (instead of pumping), combined feeder/drainage channels,
changed pond dimensions, and generally reduced infrastructure. As a result,
the Maryut scheme became simpler, more easily manageable and less
expensive. Changes in concept, design and costs, as indicated by a desk
study and field trips, were confirmed as realistic and viable by the
consultants who had prepared the feasibility reports, and who have now
prepared revised drawings and cost estimates to pre-tender level for the new
scheme at Maryut (financed under the Project Preparation Facility).
Government has recently signed a contract with consultants for preparation
of detailed engineering designs, specifications and tender documents (also
financed by PPF). These are expected to be ready by July 1981.
I. Environmental and Health Effects
3.17     As far as is known, there are no endemic fish virus problems in
Egypt. Under the project, the risk of fish disease would be minimized by
the generally saline conditions, relatively short growing season of 8-9
months, and the type of construction in which each pond is a discrete unit
which may be isolated, drained and sterilized with minimal impact on other
operations. However, construction of any large-scale system of ponds and
canals inevitably alters the existing aquatic environment, potentially af-
fecting the health of fish farmers and the local environment by breeding of



- 29 -
disease vectors in the water. Among the communicable diseases already
endemic in Egypt, malaria, rift valley fever and bancroftian filariasis may
be disregarded as possible hazards from fish farms, since the mosquito
vectors cannot breed in saline water or in large expanses of water exposed
to day-long sunlight. While fish ponds may potentially be excellent aquaria
for vectors of schistosomiasis (bilharziasis), the prevalent snail species
are extremely unlikely to colonize in the high saline concentrations (upto
10 ppt by end of each season) of water at the Maryut fish farm. Never-
theless, several design and operation safeguards have been incorporated into
the project to minimize health risks. Vectors would be discouraged by
screens provided at major water intakes and canal feeders. Wave action
across ponds and adequate drainage of seepage water should prevent waterlog-
ging and subsequent stagnation. Seasonal drying and treatment of pond beds
would allow dessication of submerged and emergent vegetation. Pit latrines
and washing facilities would be provided at regular intervals, cess pits at
all field centers, and a large septic tank system at the main farm center at
Maryut. Fish handling, cleaning and packing would take place under most
hygienic conditions. Water contacts would be limited entirely to work
needs, and access by the general public to ponds minimized. Housing for
fish farm operators at Maryut would be provided in nearby El Ameriya town
(with adequate potable water and sewerage facilities); on the recommendation
of health specialists, no human settlements would be allowed to spring up on
the farm periphery. Annual screenings and necessary treatment would be
carried out at El Ameriya Hospital. The Ministry of Public Health would be
asked to undertake mosquito larval searches in fish ponds every July-
September. Provision has also been made to minimize possible adverse effects
on the Maryut fish farm of various developments external to the project
site. Mention has been made in para. 2.07 above of possible discovery of
antiquities in a small area to tne extreme northwest of the site. While
project design has given suitable cognizance to the existing archaeological
situation, there is sufficient flexibility to allow necessary modifications
during construction (even though extremely unlikely) to take account of
further 'finds' in that area. Liaison would also be maintained with the
Ministry of Public Health to ensure adequate notice for shutting off water
inlets before large-scale mollusciciding operations are undertaken in
irrigated areas close to the fish farms.  Potential hazards from industrial
development near the Maryut fish farm would be minimized through the
measures outlined in para. 2.04 above. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that Government would introduce and maintain satisfactory
measures to control pollution, protect the environment, and safeguard the
health and safety of inhabitants and workers at the Maryut site.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management (World Bank Chart 21922)
4.01     The Borrower of the proposed IDA credit would be the Arab Republic
of Egypt. USt 1 million out of the credit has already been approved under



- 30 -
the Project Preparation Facility and is being used by the UnderSecretariat
for Aquatic Resources (USAR) in the Ministry of Agriculture for project pre-
paration and design activities. An estimated additional US$ 9.9 million
would be used by USAR for all components except the credit scheme for indiv-
idual fish farmers. About SDR 2.4 million (US$ 3.1 million) would be
on-lent to the Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
(PBDAC) which, in turn, would make subloans to beneficiaries of investments
under the credit scheme.
4.02     Primary responsibility for project implementation would be assigned
to the UnderSecretariat for Aquatic Resouces (USAR), which is charged with
coordinating all fisheries development activities in Egypt. USAR's impact
has so far been limited by lack of trained staff and operational experience
in intensive fish farming, but its capabilities are currently being
strengthened (see para. 1.11 above).!' Overall policy guidance and
coordination of activities among various project components, agencies and
regions would be provided by a Coordination Committee to be established
within USAR by September 15, 1981, headed by the UnderSecretary for Aquatic
Resources and including representatives from the Ministries of Irrigation
and Public Health, PBDAC, and the Alexandria governorate, with the project
manager of PIMU (see para. 4.03 below) acting as its general secretary. The
Committee would meet as often as required but at least once every three
months to review project activities and progress. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations.
4.03     In order to facilitate project management and control, a Project
Implementation and Monitoring Unit (PIMU) would be set up within USAR and
report directly to the UnderSecretary for Aquatic Resources. PIMU's
specific responsibilities, for components to be implemented by USAR, would
include: (i) design and supervision of project works; (ii) procurement;
(iii) maintaining project accounts and financial control, and preparing
applications for withdrawal from the IDA credit; (iv) setting up and imple-
menting project monitoring and evaluation systems (see paras. 4.10-4.11
below), and resolving implementation bottlenecks as they arise; (v) prepa-
ring and submitting to IDA quarterly and annual reports on physical progress
and impact of the project (see para. 4.09 below); (vi) liaison with other
concerned Government ministries and agencies; (vii) coordinating with PBDAC
(and other agencies) in establishment and staffing of the Maryut Fish
Farming Company (MFFC; see para. 4.04); and (viii) overseeing implementation
of training and extension programs, improved fry collection, and the fish
marketing and project preparation studies (see para. 4.05 below). PIMU
would be headed by a senior engineer as project manager, with at least
fifteen years' experience in planning, design and construction management of
irrigation and drainage works. Since such a person would most likely be
found in the Ministry of Irrigation, he would be seconded to PIMU for an
1/ In particular, if current plans to replace USAR with a Public
Authority for Fisheries Projects and Development materialize, such an
Authority would take over all the functions currently assigned to USAR
under the project.



- 31 -
initial period of at least three years. He would be assisted by an
aquaculture management specialist as deputy project manager, two other
engineers with at least five years' experience respectively in
irrigation/drainage works and pumping stations (also possibly seconded for
at least three years from the Ministry of Irrigation), one other
engineer,one supervisor and one tabulator for monitoring and evaluation, one
technical credit specialist, two other technicians, two accountants and
other support staff, all suitably qualified and experienced and working on a
full-time basis for the project. Establishment of PIMU, including
appointment of at least the project manager, one other engineer and one
accountant, would be a condition of effectiveness of this credit.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that PIMU would be kept
adequately staffed and expanded as required over the period of project
implementation.
4.04     As soon as the first two blocks of production ponds (on about a
third of the total area) and related infrastructure at Maryut are ready
(expected around April 1983), USAR would hand over responsibility for their
commercial operation and management to the Maryut Fish Farming Company
(MFFC), a joint stock company to be established under Law No. 43/1974 1/.
MFFC would be set up by June 30, 1982, with an initial authorized share
capital of LE 5 million, PBDAC (and one or more other governmental agencies)
as the public sector partner, and at least 10 potential pond operators as
the initial private shareholders.  Additional pond operators (a total of
about 70 by early 1983, and 214 eventually) would also be enabled and
required to buy shares in MFFC after training at El Zaweya. There would be
no capital subscription open to the general public.  Construction of fish
farm facilities at Maryut would continue under the direct supervision of
PIMU, and, upon completion (expected around January 1984), Government would
transfer the Maryut fish farm's assets to MFFC in return for equal amounts
in value of: (i) shares in MFFC's equity, and (ii) a loan, at 6% interest
per annum, repayable by the company over 20 years including two years' grace
(with Government bearing the foreign exchange risk). Government and PBDAC
would gradually (over a period of about 10 years) divest their equity
interest in MFFC to the individual pond operators, who would eventually
constitute the majority shareholders and essentially be free to run their
own affairs. Individual initiative and enterprise would be encouraged by
leaving actual fish pond operation as far as possible in the hands of these
operators (each being normally assigned one production pond on long-term
lease), with each of the six blocks of production ponds operating as an
autonomous self-contained unit. The company itself would own all the fish
farm facilities and function largely as a service organization responsible
for input purchase, marketing, aquaculture advice and guidance, operation/
maintenance of hydraulic structures and common facilities, and arranging
short-term credits from PBDAC and other banks.  To perform these functions,
I/ Egyptian Law 43/1974 allows companies to operate along private enter-
prise lines (irrespective of actual stock ownership), with freedom from
public sector regulations in product pricing, employee compensation, and
profit distribution policies.



- 32 -
MFFC's policies would be guided by a Board of Directors and its day-to-day
management would be carried out by a staff of about 65 professionals and
technicians, organized in three departments (production, engineering, and
administration). MFFC's Board of Directors and essential staff would be
appointed no later than December 31, 1982. Pond operators' income would be
tied to production from their particular ponds, as in a sharecropping
arrangement, and the company would deduct charges from sale proceeds to
cover operating and maintenance expenses, debt service payments, equity
buy-back from Government and PBDAC (allowing adequate return on their equity
investment), and some buildup of financial reserves. In order to weed out
poor performers, MFFC would have the right to buy back shares from any pond
operator (with appropriate compensation for any investment he has made) at
the end of an initial two-year probationary period. Voluntary sale of
shares to the company would also be allowed but there would be no
unauthorized dealing in shares between individual shareholders or with
outside entities. The project would provide a financial management
specialist to design appropriate cost recovery mechanisms (allowing full
recovery of capital and operating/maintenance costs of all facilities,
including housing), incentive schemes (particularly through equity
participation by technical/administrative staff), and financial control and
reporting systems for the Maryut fish farm. Guidelines for MFFC's capital
formation, staffing, operational procedures, and finance, as outlined above,
were agreed upon during negotiations. Government would provide IDA (for its
approval) detailed proposals on these matters, as well as MFFC's draft
charter and by-laws, as a condition of effectiveness of this credit. More
details on MFFC's establishment and organization, as well as proposed
selection criteria for pond operators, are contained in Annex 1 to this
report.
4.05     The training programs at El Zaweya would be implemented by USAR,
with immediate responsibility assigned to an experienced professional as
Training Supervisor (to be based at El Zaweya), who would be appointed no
later than September 30, 1981. He would be assisted by adequate
professional staff, including at least four technicians, one mechanic and
other support personnel. The project's training programs would be
essentially planned and managed by an expatriate aquaculturist/trainer until
about mid-1983, after which the Training Supervisor would continue to run
similar programs at El Zaweya at least until the end of project
implementation. The governorate of Kafr El Sheikh would allow USAR complete
freedom in operating and using the El Zaweya fish farm as a training
facility under the project. Detailed training proposals would be submitted
for IDA's review by September 30, 1981, and the program for fellowship
training would be prepared by July 31, 1981. For implementation of the
extension program, including training of staff and strengthening of
extension services in the four governorates covered by the project's credit
component, USAR would appoint an experienced professional as Extension
Supervisor no later than September 30, 1981. He would be assisted by 3-4
extension workers in each of the four governorates, and have a staff of at
least two technicians and other support personnel.  Some 20 USAR field



- 33 -
officers would receive training at El Zaweya for three months in extension
methodology and fish farm site selection, design, construction and
management. Four research staff from the Institute of Oceanography and
Fisheries (IOF) and other research institutions would also be trained for
three months in practical aspects of fish farming and form the core of
subject-matter specialists for the extension program. Extension work would
be organized along "training and visit" lines, with extension workers
visiting designated "key" fish farmers (4-5 in each governorate) as well as
other individual project subborrowers every fortnight, and spending one day
during that period to receive in-service training and information from
subject-matter specialists. Short training and demonstration courses would
also be arranged at El Zaweya for individual fish farmers. Improvements to
the El Mex mullet fry collection station would be implemented by USAR in
close coordination with IOF and other appropriate research institutions.
The Station Director at El Mex (currently under IOF) would be responsible
for operation of the improved facilities and procedures, with overall
coordination provided by PIMU.  The Director would be assisted by at least
one professional, four technicians, and other support staff. The Training
and Extension Supervisors and El Mex Station Director would be responsible
for submitting periodic reports on their respective components to PIMU for
inclusion in the quarterly and annual reports sent to IDA for review (see
para. 4.09 below). The fish marketing study and the project preparation
study would be carried out by consultants directly under the supervision of
the project manager in PIMU.  USAR would provide adequate office and other
support facilities for all these purposes. Assurances on the above
arrangements were obtained during negotiations.
B. Credit
4.06     Organization.  The credit program to individual fish farmers in
four Delta governorates would be administered by PBDAC through its existing
branch network in these areas. PBDAC was previously appraised under the
Agricultural Development Project (Credit 830-EGT) and, recently, under the
Agroindustries Project (Credit 988-EGT). Its position as virtually the only
institution lending to the agriculture sector makes it the logical channel
for carrying out this component of the project as a credit operation.
Government would on-lend to PBDAC the proceeds of the IDA credit for the
credit component at an interest rate of 3% per annum, repayable over fifteen
years including three years' grace. This would give PBDAC a spread of 3% on
sub-loans, which is needed to cover its administrative costs and risks in
lending to the new sector of fish farming, particularly since it will at the
same time be liberalizing its security requirements (see para. 4.07 below).
PBDAC would set up a Fisheries Credit Coordination Unit (FCCU), including a
Credit Coordinator, a fish farming specialist, two technicians, two
accountants, M&E personnel (see paras. 4.10-4.11 below) and other support
staff, all fully qualified and experienced and working on a full-time basis
for the project. FCCU would be responsible for coordinating and reviewing
implementation of the credit component, overseeing procurement, monitoring



- 34 -
progress, maintaining project accounts, submitting applications for
withdrawal from the loan account, and preparing quarterly and annual
progress reports to be sent to IDA. It would also help PBDAC's regional
offices in the four governorates covered by the credit scheme to identify
potential subborrowers and appraise fish farming subprojects, and be
generally responsible for PBDAC's activities in the aquaculture sector.
FCCU would be kept adequately staffed and expanded as required over the
period of project implementation. Appointment of at least the Credit
Coordinator, fish farming specialist and one accountant, would take place no
later than September 30, 1981.  Assurances on the above were obtained during
negotiations.
4.07     Lending Terms and Procedures.  The interest rate to be charged
subborrowers would be in line with the prevalent rate levied by PBDAC on
medium/long-term loans in the fisheries sector, but in any event not less
than 6% per annum. (Given the relative lack of financial sophistication of
most project subborrowers, Government would bear the foreign exchange risk
in all cases). Although this rate compares unfavorably with domestic
inflation in recent yearsL/, it must be seen in the perspective of overall
fiscal and pricing policies in Egypt which result in a net taxation of the
agricultural sector. The Bank/IDA are currently assisting Government in a
study of the structure of the agricultural pricing system and its effects on
agricultural production and other parts of the economy. Subborrowers under
the fish farmer credit scheme would be of diverse backgrounds, ranging from
landholders to landless workers. To spread project benefits over as many
fish farmers as possible, the maximum subloan amount would be LE 50,000,
thus enabling each family to borrow funds for no more than about 30 feddan
of fish ponds. Subloan amortization schedules would be based on projected
cash flows and debt repayment capacities of subborrowers as analyzed by
PBDAC, and would not normally exceed ten years in any individual case. A
minimum investor participation of 20% of the investment amount would
normally be required. Sublending decisions would be supported by adequate
appraisals to ensure that projects are technically, financially and
economically viable. Since PBDAC has virtually no experience or expertise
in the aquaculture sector, it would be assisted by USAR staff, coordinated
through the credit specialist in PIMU, in technical appraisals (including
site selection, specifications and designs) and subsequent supervision of
construction of subprojects. PBDAC would relax its normal collateral
requirements for fish farmers, placing greater emphasis on future financial
prospects and allowing movable property and other fish farm investments,
together with long-term leases of State lands, as acceptable security from
prospective subborrowers. PBDAC would provide for IDA's review by September
30, 1981 a standard form of loan contracts to be used by its branch banks
for provision of fish farming subloans. IDA would review the arpraisal of
1/ Actual Inflation = 8.7%, 14% and 18% (est.) in 1978, 1979 and 1980,
respectively.
Expected Inflation = 15%, 12% and 10% in 1981, 1982 and 1983,
respectively.



- 35 -
and approve the first ten subloan applications under the credit component.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations and would be
reflected in a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between Government
and PBDAC. Signing of such a Subsidiary Agreement satisfactory to IDA would
be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
C. Accounts and Audits
4.08     USAR and PBDAC would keep records adequate to reflect resources and
expenditures in respect of the project, including separate accounts related
to goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the IDA credit.  USAR,
whose accounts are currently audited by the Government's Central Agency for
Accounting, would submit a statement of project accounts, covering both
expenditures and sources of funds, to IDA within six months of the end of
each fiscal year. PBDAC would submit a similar statement for components to
be implemented by it. Under ongoing projects, PBDAC is also required to
have its accounts and financial statements audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA, and to submit these financial statements and
related audit reports to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal
year. These obligations would continue under the proposed project.
Assurances were obtained to this effect.
D. Progress Reporting
4.09     USAR and PBDAC would each ensure that adequate technical and
financial supervision of ongoing works and subprojects is carried out,
within the sphere of responsibility of each agency. Project progress would
be monitored by PIMU in USAR and FCCU in PBDAC, each of which would arrange
for collection of statistical information on costs, production, income and
other physical and financial parameters, in a form comparable with original
plans and projections. The detailed information would be retained in Egypt
and made available for review by IDA missions. Summaries and analyses of
the information, prepared in accordance with mutally agreed guidelines,
would be submitted by PIMU and FCCU to IDA annually.  These two Units would
also prepare and submit to IDA quarterly reports summarizing progress in
construction of works, procurement of equipment and materials, credits
granted, collections made, project expenditures, etc. These obligations
would continue for two years after the period of project implementation.
Finally, both USAR and PBDAC would prepare, within one year of the credit
closing date, project completion reports on the components implemented by
them. Assurances on the above were obtained during negotiations.



- 36 -
E. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
4.10     The project offices in the implementing agencies would be respon-
sible (with assistance from an expert) for design and implementation of
monitoring and evaluation systems for the project. Baseline surveys would
be carried out and detailed proposals for systems of monitoring and
evaluating various project components submitted to IDA no later than
December 31, 1981 PIMUT would be responsible for M&E activities relating to
various components to be implemented by USAR. The basic information,
prepared in the format of specially designed questionnaires, would be
collected by the responsible manager or coordinator for each component and
sent to PIMU for collation, analysis, and dissemination to concerned
management.  The proiect manager in PIMU would be assisted in this task by a
suitably qualified (at east University graduate) M&E supervisor and one
tabulator (at least secondary school graduate). FCCU would be responsible
for the more complex task of monitoring and evaluating the individual fish
farmer credit scheme, which is to be implemented in scattered areas spread
over four governorates. For this purpose, a special M&E Unit would be set
up within FCCU, headed by a supervisor in charge of four enumerators (one
for each of the governorates, where they would be based) and two
tabulators. Given the small but heterogenous population size (100), about
75 fish farmers would be covered, together with a control group of the same
size outside the project, with a total of about 400 questionnaires to be
filled over the five year project period. Adequate transport facilities and
programmable calculators for data analysis would be provided. The two M&E
Supervisors in the project units would meet regularly to exchange ideas and
information and may also participate periodically in the meetings of the
Coordination Committee for this project. Assurances on the above were
obtained during negotiations.
4.11     The project monitoring systems would be designed to provide for
timely collection of information and review of a number of selected physical
and financial summary indicators, measuring performance of the project
against agreed targets, to provide an early warning of implementation
problems and act as a basis for suggesting remedies as necessary. On the
Maryut fish farm, an operational monitoring system would also routinely
check critical variables such as water quality (oxygen content, chemicals,
salinity, temperature, nutrient status, etc.) and fish condition (growth
rate, diseases, etc.) in each pond for necessary preventative or therapeutic
action, and assist in increasing production through improved management
techniques over time. The project evaluation systems would be set up to
analyze and propose solutions to implmentation problems and issues on an
ongoing basis, enabling the project to be adapted to changing circumstances
as necessary.  In the case of the aquaculture sector in Egypt, which is
still at a relatively rudimentary stage of development, effective feedback
of M&E results would be particularly useful in training field workers and
fish farmers and in planning future investments, by providing information on
the most appropriate farm input-output packages under soil and water condi-
tions of the Delta. The project would provide an expert to; (i) assist in



- 37 -
designing and carrying out baseline surveys to help establish a sample
frame, with detailed information on base period fish farming patterns and
practices, farm size and ownership, household composition, off-farm activi-
ties, asset ownership, etc.; (ii) develop and test detailed structured
forms, manuals and procedures for carrying out a variety of standardized
routine surveys (before, after and every 1-3 months during each season) for
different project components, seeking detailed pond-specific or activity-
specific infomation on inputs, outputs, expenditures, incomes, etc.; (iii)
develop data validation, editing and processing procedures, and prepare
standardized summary tables for presenting the data and analysis; and (iv)
train the project's M&E staff in surveying, data tabulation and analysis
techniques. The emphasis throughout would be on collecting the minimum
necessary information and using the simplest analytical procedures to meet
the system's objectives and provide quick feedback.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production and Yields
5.01     The Maryut fish farm component of the project is expected to lead
to an incremental annual fish production of about 2,560 tons at full develop-
ment. Yields per feddan are expected to rise from 600 kg in the first year
to 1.05 tons in the fourth year of operation. This production would
initially be composed of some 13% mullet cephalus, 20% mullet capito and 67%
tilapia, changing to 27% m. cephalus, 28% m. capito and 45% tilapia by the
time of full development. Some one third of the ponds at Maryut are
expected to become operational in early 1983 and the remainder in early
1984. Total annual output from fish farms under the project's credit
component is expected to be about 1,620 tons at full development. Maximum
yield per feddan would be 900 kg in the third year of operation, with
similar species composition as at Maryut. Assuming that some 60% of the
subloans would be made for improvement of existing fish farms (where yields
average up to 350 kg/feddan) and 40% for construction of new farms,
incremental production from this component would be about 1,240 tons at full
development. Annex 2, Table T-8 describes the proposed pond fish population
management and build-up of yields under the project.
5.02     Projected yields under the project are considered to be attainable
over a three to four year buildup period since: (i) the fish species to be
cultivated are indigenous and already widely used in Egypt; (ii) the average
production unit per fish farm family is small and easily manageable; (iii)
the project would gain from introduction of improved technology, part-
icularly improved mullet fry conditioning and deeper ponds (which would
provide better insulation against diurnal temperature fluctuations and more
than treble water and nutrient volume compared to existing practices); and
(iv) fish farmers would also benefit from the substantial technical assis-
tance, training and extension components included in the project. Expected
fish production each year from the project areas is summarized in Table 5.1



- 38 -
below. The annual value of total incremental output in 1987 (i.e., at full project
development) would be about LE 4.1 million (US$ 5.9 million) in constant 1980
prices.
Table 5.1: PROJECT AREAS AND PRODUCTION
Production
Year    Net Area under Fish Farms                  With Projectli                Without   Total
Maryut  Credit Scheme  Total  M.Cephalus  M. Capito  Tilapia  Total  Project  Increment
----------(feddan)------  --------------------------(tons)-------------------------
1981     --        180           180         14.0       21.6       72.4    108.0   37.8       70C2
1982     --        450           450         53.5       71.6     171.9    297.0   94.5    202.5
1983     813       810         1,623        183.9      241.6     642.8  1,068.3  170.1    898.2
1984   2,440    1,260          3,700        482.5      609.6   1,438.8  2,530.9  264.6  2,266.3
1985   2,440    1,800          4,240        810.4      896.4   1,635.7  3,342.5  378.0  2,964.5
1986   2,440    1,800          4,240      1,029.3   1,032.0   1,795.6  3,856.9  378.0  3,478.9
1987   2,440    1,800          4,240      1,129.1   1,138.6   1,914.3  4,182.0  378.0  3,804.0
/1  Some 36 tons of carp are also expected to be produced annually on credit scheme fish
farms; this would be incremental to these totals.
B. Markets
5.03      Project output is expected to be entirely consumed domestically.
The demand for fish in Egypt has been increasing continously over the past
decade at 6% per annum, while total domestic production has been virtually
stagnant around 125,000 tons. Consequently, imports of frozen fish (some
89,000 tons estimated for 1980) now account for about 42% of total
domestic fish consumption. With per capita incomes rising at 8.6% per
annum, an income elasticity of demand currently estimated at 1.2 and price
elasticity at 0.33 (for urban households), annual fish demand is expected
to continue to increase to some 300,000-320,000 tons by 1985, compared to
some 205,000 tons at present. Incremental fish production from the
project of some 3,800 tons at full development would account for only
about 1% of this demand (and about 3% of annual domestic production and 4%
of total demand during the three month harvesting season), which should be
easily absorbed by existing marketing channels. Most of the project
output is expected to be auctioned on site and sold fresh daily in Cairo
or Alexandria. In case of slack demand, the ponds themselves would
provide the natural fish storage area. However, a chill store for
overnight storage has also been included in the facilities at the Maryut
site. Since the fish would be marketed in closely controlled grades, and



- 39 -
quality would be fairly constant, it is expected that contract sales for a
substantial proportion of the crop will build up, thus providing a regular and
predictable flow of fish to the markets and greatly assisting the coordination
of harvesting schedules. Selective cropping during the season would also help
in smoothing out the flow of product to the markets. Damaged or unsaleable
fish would be sold for fish meal or animal feeds.
C. Prices
5.04     As pointed out earlier (paras. 1.15-1.17), distinct consumer
preferences for fresh fish (particularly mullet and tilapia), as well as the
existence of a large number of private fish traders side by side with
organized public sector distribution channels (for frozen imports and other
subsidized low-quality fish), have led to a clearly dual price structure for
different types of fish products in Egypt.  It is expected that all output
from the project would be sold through private sector channels by open auction
(either on site or in wholesale markets), with prices freely determined by
market forces. The public sector (mainly through the Fish Marketing
Corporation) currently sells frozen fish imports at lower prices than fresh
fish and also obliges fish farmers who have received subsidized feeds to sell
a part of their output at controlled prices which are 10-20% below those in
the free market.  However, the project would not be affected by these
conditions since frozen fish is considered an inferior good and not comparable
to fresh fish in the minds of Egyptian consumers, and no subsidized feeds
would be utilized in the proposed aquaculture system under the project.
December 1980 farmgate prices have been estimated (on the basis of field
interviews, market surveys, and available statistics) at LE 1.60 per kg for
mullet cephalus, LE 1.30 per kg for mullet capito, and LE 0.90 per kg for
tilapia. All these prices represent fair average quality and do not take
account of the likelihood that output from project fish farms would be of
superior quality and uniform standards (which would probably further improve
over time, especially for tilapia). Similarly, even though the real price of
fish has risen steadily and significantly relative to the consumer price index
in Egypt since 1970, it has been assumed that there will be no further
increase in fish prices in real terms after 1980.  (This is a particularly
conservative assumption since prices of beef, mutton and poultry in the free
market are some 50-100% higher than the price of fresh mullet).  Given the
insignificant volume of incremental output relative to total domestic
production, the project is not expected to have any influence on domestic or
international prices of the commodities produced.
D. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
Main Benefits
5.05   The project would contribute toward the national objectives of
increasing protein availability and achieving self-sufficiency in food



- 40 -
production, putting under-utilized natural resources (mainly saline land and
drainage water) to economic use, and improving incomes and employment in rural
areas. The major quantifiable benefit would be an incremental output of about
3,800 tons of fresh fish annually at full development. This output, valued at
some LE 4.1 million or US$5.9 million (at constant 1980 financial prices)
would in turn enable an equivalent substitution for imports of fish products.
Possible foreign exchange savings over the project life are estimated at about
USW83 million at 1980 cif import prices. Incomes of most fish farmer and
operator beneficiaries under the project are expected to increase at least two
to three times over their present levels.  There has recently been a spurt of
interest in aquaculture in Egypt, with increasing conversion of marginal lands
to fish farming. The project is intended to serve as a pilot and would
provide working demonstration models in efficient organization and technology
which are expected to be adopted later on a much wider scale in similar
areas. Longer-term benefits would also accrue from the project preparation
studies to be financed, which would set the stage for further significant
increases in fish production through additional aquaculture projects under a
well-planned and consistent strategy.
5.06   Improvements to the El Mex mullet fry collection station would benefit
the entire aquaculture sector by conserving a scarce resource, at least
doubling or trebling current fry availability from that station to the
industry, and demonstrating bFtter handling procedures and conditioning
facilities that can later be replicated at other collection points along the
northern coast. The fish marketing study is expected to lead to adoption of
more hygienic marketing standards, improved facilities and organization, and
more rational use of pricing and other policy interventions by Government.
These, together with such policy changes as allowing sales and long-term
leases of State lands for fish farming, should result in generally more
efficient resource allocation in the sector. The project would greatly
improve access of individual fish farmers to medium/long-term credit, a major
constraint at present, through measures such as liberalized collateral
requirements. It would also attack brasic institutional weaknesses and add to
the scarce resource of trained operating-level manpower in the aquaculture
sector through its training, technic.2iassistance, project preparation and
extension components. The last, in particular, would help in introducing
improved linkages between researchers ~cad fish farmers, and the extension
techniques and organization developed would be indirectly beneficial to the
entire sector since experiences gained in project areas could be readily
applied elsewhere. Thus, the benefits of the project in institution-building,
although non-quantifiable, would nonetheless be substantial.
Beneficiaries
5.07   The quantifiable benefits of the project would primarily accrue to some
314 individual fish farmers and pond operators (and their families). At least
100 or so additional families would directly benefit (with higher productivity
and incomes) from increased availability of better quality mullet fry due to
improvements under the project at the El Mex collection station. The pond
operators who would become shareholders at the Maryut fish farm are expected



- 41 -
to come from a diverse range of backgrounds, including existing fish farmers
in the Delta, sons of fishermen, retired civil servants, recent agricultural
graduates, and migrants from Upper Egypt who currently form the bulk of the
unemployed rural population and hired agricultural labor. Individual fish
farmer beneficiaries under the project's credit component would be of
similarly varied backgrounds, including small landowners, existing
leaseholders on State lands, and agricultural or fish farm laborers. In their
current occupations, the incomes of these families are likely to fall within
the broad range of LE 40-350 per capita.  This compares with an absolute
poverty income level of about LE 85 per capita and relative poverty level of
about LE 70 per capita estimated for rural Egypt. Some 10-20% of the
quantifiable benefits of the project are expected to accrue to beneficiaries
in the poverty target group. The project would also provide increased
permanent employment to about 120 aquaculture technicians and other personnel
employed in various capacities, and to about 250 unskilled and semi-skilled
laborers annually at full development. An additional 100 laborers are
expected to benefit from increased seasonal employment of some 8,000 mandays
per annum, most of which would fall in slack agricultural periods. Project
works would employ an additional 500 or so workers over the five year
implementation period, and further indirect employment opportunities would be
created by any ancillary services and facilities set up for handling the
increased project production. Most of this labor would be procured locally
from surrounding areas.
Financial Analysis and Repayment Capacity
5.08     Representative fish farm models have been drawn up to illustrate the
expected impact of the project on its beneficiaries.  A typical investment
model for an individual fish farmer under the credit scheme is shown in Annex
2, Table T-9, and a model for a pond operator on the Maryut fish farm is
presented in Annex 2, Table T-10. Financial results for typical investment
models under the credit scheme are summarized below:



- 42 -
Fish Farm Model
10 feddan                     30 feddan
With Agric.
Improved  Newl/   Reclamatio        Improved    Newl/
Investment Cost (LE)2/         19,880   25,586       33,486        31,619      48,993
Loan Amount (LE)3/             15,904   20,469       26,789        25,295      39,194
Net Operating Income at full
development (before debt
service)(LE): with proj.    7,328    7,297          8,252        25,428      25,471
without proj.    1,569       --           --           7,705       --
Incremental Income/feddan(LE)   576         730          825           591        849
Financial Rate of Return on
Investment (%)                   19        26          20            54          65
1/ With land purchase. Models of new fish farms with leased land show higher
rates of return.
21  Including physical contingencies of 15% for civil works and 5% (plus 20%
allowance for spare parts) for equipment and vehicles.
3/ 80% of investment cost.
5.09     The computations were based on December 1980 farmgate prices of
inputs and outputs and on the yields and species composition indicated in
para. 5.01 above, derived from information received at the time of appraisal.
(Standard technical coefficients and prices have been used, although some
variation occurs in practice as a result of locational factors). The
individual fish farmer's investment would typically consist in the
construction of 1 m deep production ponds (or deepening of existing ponds of
0.3 m average depth) on an area of 10-30 feddan, in addition to a wintering
pond and storage shed, installation of sluices and a water pump, and purchase
of a light pickup for transport of inputs and produce. About 100 such
investments would be financed under the project's credit scheme, with
investment costs varying between about LE 20,000 and LE 50,000, upto 80% of
which would be financed by PBDAC. Financial rates of return would vary
between 19% and 65% over a twenty year period. Incremental net incomes per
feddan (before debt service) of beneficiaries under the credit scheme would
range from about LE 576 to LE 849, and average income per feddan would rise
from about LE 260 at present to about LE 630 at full project development.
Thus, there would be adequate incentives for individual fish farmers to
participate in the credit scheme. Analysis of cash flows after financing
indicates that subborrowers under the credit scheme should be able to manage
the loan and interest payments under the proposed on-lending terms, and that
financial returns to fish farmers' equity would be even higher than returns on
total investment. As Annex 2, Table T-10 indicates, there would also be
sufficient incentives for pond operators to join the Maryut fish farm, since
their incremental income would increase by over LE 5,000 annually at full
development, after allowing for operating/maintenance/replacement costs,



- 43 -
administrative overheads, and deductions for debt service, equity buy-back
from Government and PBDAC, and some buildup of company reserves.
F. Economic Analysis (Annex 2, Table T-12)
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
5.10     The basic economic rate of return (ERR) on project investments is
estimated at about 21%. Further, assuming an opportunity cost of capital of
10% in Egypt, the economic net present value of project investments is about
LE 7.7 million (US$11.1 million). These estimates take into account all in-
vestment, replacement and operating costs of the fisheries development program
over a 20 year period. The basic ERR calculation excludes the El Mex
collection facilities, training and extension programs, worker housing, and
the two studies to be financed under the project, since their benefits could
not be adequately quantified and, in any case, would accrue to the sector as a
whole (not just to the project).  If these components were included, the rate
of return would drop to 16%, which is still satisfactory. Separate
calculations for independent components yield rates of return of about 18% for
the Maryut fish farm and 38% for the credit scheme as a whole.
5.11     Costs and benefits have been computed at constant prices over twenty
years; relative prices of inputs and outputs are assumed to remain unchanged
over this period. All overhead costs of implementing agencies (except
additional staff needed for the project) and costs of existing facilities at
El Mex and El Zaweya have already been incurred ("sunk costs") and are
excluded from the cost streams.  Investments and other input costs exclude
taxes, duties and subsidies wherever identifiable. Tradable inputs such as
imported machinery have been valued at their import parity prices, including
an allowance for domestic transportation. All outputs and non-tradable inputs
have been valued at their free market prices, with appropriate conversion to
border prices. Conversion factors estimated at 0.86 for consumption goods,
0.87 for intermediate goods, 0.70 for capital goods, 0.69 for transport, and a
standard conversion factor of 0.83, have been used in the analysis. Cow and
chicken manure (the two main operating inputs) are freely available in
adequate quantities from farms in the Delta; their border prices are obtained
by applying the standard conversion factor to their market prices and the
transport conversion factor to average costs of transportation from likely
supply sources. Similar conversions have been carried out for other inputs
such as fish fry and labor (see Annex 2, Table T-ll for details). Despite
evidence of rural unemployment and underemployment in most project areas,
shadow wage rates have been taken as equal to the market wage rate for
unskilled labor in the agricultural sector. On the output side, both mullet
and tilapia have been evaluated at domestic prices, since the internationally
traded fish is in frozen form which is considered by Egyptian consumers to be
virtually a different commodity and not comparable to fresh fish (see para.
5.04 above for price assumptions). Border prices were derived by applying the



- 44 -
Consumption Conversion Factor to financial farmgate prices for fish.
5.12     Regarding the "without project" situation, land at the Maryut site is
assumed to have an opportunity cost of zero, since it is currently under
saline water for most parts of the year, has no alternative economic use, and
cannot practicably be reclaimed for agriculture. Land used in the credit
scheme is assumed to be of marginal quality in terms of potential agricultural
use but generally suitable for fish farming, which would give opportunity
costs equivalent to currently achieved incomes on unimproved fish farms in
these areas (about LE 260 per feddan). However, for the sake of conservatism,
the opportunity cost of this land has been taken as LE 400 per feddan, which
is the market price of agricultural land in most parts of the project area.
In the case of existing fish farms which would be improved under the project's
credit scheme, the "without project" yields have been taken as 350 kg/feddan,
which is on the high side of yields currently obtained on such fish farms in
the Delta region. Maximum yields to be achieved under the project are assumed
to build up over four years at the Maryut fish farm and three years on
individual fish farms under the credit scheme (see para. 5.01). No value has
been attached to the water to be used as input to project fish farms, since it
would be mainly drainage water with no other alternative use under currently
known technology.
Sensitivity Analysis and Project Risks
5.13     Sensitivity analysis (see Annex 2, Table T-12B) was carried out to
determine the variables most crucial for tl.e project's success. As a measure,
the "crossover value" was used, defined as the change in a variable tested
beyond which the ERR would fall below 10%. The project turns out to be fairly
insensitive to adverse variations in cost assumptions. Input and other
operating costs, for example, would have to rise about 243%, operating and
maintenance costs 140%, and capital costs 77% (in real terms) before the ERR
dropped to 10%. The return is more sensitive to changes on the benefits
side. Fish prices or yields would have to fall 28% from projections before
the ERR dropped to 10%. If the yield build-up period were increased to six
years (starting from about 400 kg per feddan in the first year) instead of 3-4
years assumed at present, the ERR would fall to 16%. The ERR is not very
sensitive to possible delays in project implementation which would affect the
timing of both costs and benefits. However, even if expected production
increases under the project were delayed by one year. with no corresponding
delay in costs incurred, the ERR would still be satisfactory at 15%. On the
other hand, indications are that with official policies of continuing
subsidies on most essential consumer goods, use of a Consumption Conversion
Factor (CCF) of 0.86 to convert farmgate prices of fish to border prices might
be over-conservative, so that the project's ERR would probably be higher than
21% as calculated. Available information suggests that, while most imported
frozen fish is sold without any major subsidies or taxes, subsidies on other
meat imports range from 10-20% on poultry to over 100% for beef. Use of a CCF
for the project's fish output of 1.00 (assuming no net subsidies or taxes)
would increase the ERR to 26%. Any higher CCF (implying that project output
would substitute for subsidized meat imports) would further improve the
project's economic returns.



- 45 -
5.14     Possible project risks are substantial, but every effort has been
made to reduce or eliminate their incidence. Construction of project
facilities at the Maryut site would be a major earthmoving exercise, calling
for strict control and coordination by experienced contractors. Delays in
implementation or faulty construction could delay yield buildup and increase
maintenance costs during operation. However, provision under the project of a
single contractor to take responsibility for all works at Maryut and an
international firm of consulting engineers to supervise construction should
substantially reduce these risks. The Maryut fish farm would, on comple-
tion, be one of the larger aquaculture schemes of its kind at any one site in
the world, and proper management of operations would be critical to its
eventual success. The project design has attempted to reduce the risk of
large-scale operating failures by: (i) decentralizing operations into six
virtually independent blocks, (ii) providing a substantial component for
training the necessary pond operators and technicians at a similar fish farm
(El Zaweya) before the Maryut farm becomes operational, (iii) devising an
organizational framework that would give complete freedom of action in
operations and provide adequate incentives to individual pond operators
(through shares in the company and returns based on performance), and (iv)
providing consultancy services by experienced aquaculture experts to assist in
management and on-the-job training during the first three years of operation.
Finally, there is the risk that improved technology introduced under the
project's credit scheme may not be adz,pted by fish farmers as projected.
However, this is unlikely to be a major problem since provision of credit
facilities, liberalization of collateral requirements and the obvious
financial benefits of project investments such as deeper ponds (already
recognized by existing fish farmers in the Delta) should give adequate
incentives to participate in the project.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following:
(a) Government would:
(i)     prevent establishment of industries producing
harmful wastes in the Alexandria Free Trade Zone
and surrounding industrial areas, require
surrounding industries also to pass their
effluent through the Zone's central treatment
facilities, and guarantee the project access to
fresh water from the Nubariya Canal in case of
water quality emergency (para. 2.04);



- 46 -
(ii)     take all necessary measures to ensure the health and
safety of inhabitants and workers in, and protect
the environment around, the Maryut project area
(paras. 2.07, 3.17);
(iii)     ensure that the Maryut fish farm is allocated suf-
ficient electricity and potable water supplies for
its needs (para. 2.07);
(iv)     give the project priority in supply of materials and
equipment as a "food security" project (para. 3.14
(iii));
(v)     make arrangements with the governorate of Kafr El
Sheikh to allow USAR complete freedom in operating
and using the El Zaweya fish farm as a training
facility (para. 4.05); and
(vi)     on-lend SDR 2.4 million (about US$3.1 million) of
the IDA credit to PBDAC under agreed terms and
conditions (paras. 4.01 and 4.06).
(b) USAR would:
(i)     extend the minimum term of State land lease for fish
farms from five to ten years, and allow sales of
State land for aquaculture purposes (para. 1.06);
(ii)     clear terms for reference for the fish marketing and
project preparation studies with IDA by September
30, 1981, complete the fish marketing study by
September 30, 1982, and agree with IDA on
appropriate measures to implement the studies'
recommendations (para. 3.09);
(iii)     take all agreed and necessary steps for transferring
assets at the Maryut project site to the Maryut Fish
Farming Company (para. 4.04); and
(iv)     implement the proposed organizational and staffing
arrangements (including establishment of a
Coordination Committee by September 15, 1981), keep
PIMU and other project offices adequately staffed at
all times (including appointment of Training and
Extension Supervisors by September 30, 1981), and
expand them as required over the project
implementation period (paras. 4.02-4.03, 4.05).



- 47 -
(c) PBDAC would:
(i)     establish FCCU no later than September 30, 1981
(with at least a Credit Coordinator, fish farming
specialist and one accountant), and keep it
adequately staffed over the project implementa-
tion period (para. 4.06); and
(ii)     on-lend the proceeds of the IDA credit on agreed
terms and conditions, after adequate appraisal of
the financial, economic and technical viability of
subprojects, and relax its normal collateral
requirements to accept long-term leases (together
with fish farm investments) as security for fish
farming subloans (para. 4.07).
(d) USAR AND PBDAC would:
(i)     appoint the various consultants under the project
according to procedures, and with qualifications,
experience and terms of employment satisfactory to
IDA; all consultants would be appointed by September
30, 1981, except the monitoring and evaluation
expert (by December 31, 1981), and the Maryut
aquaculture advisor (December 31, 1982) (para. 3.10);
(ii)     follow the agreed procedures for financing, procure-
ment, disbursement, accounting, auditing, and
progress reporting (paras. 3.12, 3.14-3.15,
4.08-4.09);
(iii)     take all agreed and necessary steps for establish-
ment of the Maryut Fish Farming Company no
later than June 30, 1982, and appoint its Board of
Directors and essential staff no later than
December 31, 1982 (para. 4.04); and
(iv)     follow the agreed procedures for monitoring and
evaluation, including completion of baseline surveys
and submission to IDA of detailed proposals for
systems of monitoring and evaluating various project
components no later than December 31, 1981 (paras.
4.10-4.11).
6.02     The following would be special conditions of effectiveness of the
proposed credit:
(i) establishment of PIMU, including appointment of at least the
project manager, one other engineer and one accountant
(para. 4.03);



- 48 -
(ii) submission of detailed proposals, satisfactory to IDA, for the
establishment of MFFC (para. 4.04); and
(iii) signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to IDA,
between Government and PBDAC on the credit scheme component
(para. 4.07).
6.03     Agreement having been reached on the assurances sought, the project
is suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 11 million (about US$14 million) on
standard terms to the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt.



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
Page  1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Maryut Fish Farming Company
A. Introduction
1.       Upon completion of construction (partly in 1983 and fully in 1984),
the Maryut fish farm would be one of the larger aquaculture schemes of its
kind in the world. The successful commercial operation of such a scheme
would hinge heavily upon its ability to attract the most qualified and
experienced technical staff, provide adequate incentives to pond operators
for individual effort, maintain all facilities in satisfactory working
condition, and enjoy complete autonomy in input purchase, output marketing
and other operational decisions. While individual initiative and enterprise
should be encouraged by allowing the maximum possible operating freedom to
pond operators, the design and layout of the fish farm is such that some
functions (such as operation/maintenance of hydraulic structures and common
facilities) would still need to be perform.ed by a central coordinating
entity. Several alternative structures for sucb a central organization
(ranging from a cooperative of pond operators to a wholly government-owned
or private company) were explored during project preparation and appraisal.
Cooperatives in Egypt, particularly those set up to manage land reclamation
projects, have had a checkered experience to date, generally being burdened
by an excess of inexperienced and poorly motivated staff, and ending up with
all the inefficiencies and bureaucracy associated with government companies.
Under the project, it is proposed to establish the Maryut Fish Farming   i
Company (MFFC) as a joint stock company under Law No. 43/1974 to manage the
Maryut fish farm. Egyptian Law 43, promulgated in 1974 to attract private
investment (mainly from Arab and other foreign funds), allows company
management the authority to operate along private enterprise lines,
irrespective of the actual stock ownership.  As a result, the company is
freed from restrictive regulations of the public sector, with freedom to set
product prices and to establish compensation packages which will attract and
retain qualified personnel, and fewer constraints on investment and profit
distribution policies. Law 43/1974 companies are licensed by the General
Authority for Investment and Free Trade Zones, under the Ministry of Economy.



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
B. Company Establishment
2.       As a condition of effectiveness of this credit, Government would
provide IDA (for its approval) detailed proposals for establishment of MFFC,
including inter alia a draft of its charter and by-laws, and the proposals
for its capital formation, staffing, operational procedures, and finance.
MFFC would be formally established by Presidential Decree no later than June
30, 1982, with PBDAC (and one or more other governmental agencies, as
appropriate) as the public sector partner and at least 10 potential pond
operators as the initial private shareholders. The company's initial
authorized share capital would be LE 5 million, and payment by the founding
shareholders of the value of their respective shares would be made in
accordance with the applicable commercial law. It is expected that at least
LE 50,000 would be paid up initially (LE 45,000 by PBDAC and LE 5,000 by the
private shareholders, each of whom would purchase shares worth at least LE
500). An additional 60 or so pond operators who have received training at
El Zaweya would also be enabled and required to buy shares in MFFC, with a
minimum of LE 500 per person, before start of operations. There would be no
capital subscription open to the general public. The company's initial
working capital needs are expected to be met by a line of credit from
PBDAC. Upon completion of the first stage of construction, MFFC would start
operations on about a third of the pond area (expected around April 1983).
Construction of the remaining facilities, and procurement of additional
equipment in accordance with agreed lists, would continue under the direct
supervision of PIMU. Upon completion of construction of all fish farm
facilities (expected around January 1984), Government would transfer the
Maryut fish farm's assets (including land and capital investments, and
housing) to MFFC. In return, Government would acquire shares in MFFC
against about half the cost of these facilities as determined from audited
accounts of expenditures under the project.  (The total cost is expected to
be about LE 9.3 million, excluding expenditures on consultant services,
which would be considered a grant from Government). The remaining cost
would be treated as a loan from Government to MFFC, repayable within twenty
years from the date of completion of all construction at the Maryut fish
farm, with an initial grace period of two years and an interest rate of 6%
per annum.  (The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government due
to the likely lack of financial sophistication of most pond operators at
Maryut).
3.       Additional pond operators, up to a grand total of about 214, would
also be required to buy shares in the company after being trained at El
Zaweya. (Technical and administrative staff working on the Maryut fish farm
would also be enabled to acquire shares in MFFC, but their aggregate holding
would be limited, say, to about 20% of MFFC's total equity). Government and



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
PBDAC would gradually (over a period of about ten years) divest their equity
interest in the company to individual pond operators, who would eventually
constitute the majority shareholders in MFFC and essentially be free to run
their own affairs. Actual operation of fish production ponds would be in
the hands of individual operators organized around the six pond blocks as
autonomous, self-contained units. The company itself would be responsible
for such functions as input purchase, marketing, aquaculture advice and
guidance, operation/maintenance of hydraulic structures and common
facilities, and arranging short-term credits from PBDAC and other banks.
Normally one pond would be assigned (through long-term lease) to each
operator, but, in case of an insufficient number of operators in the
beginning, a maximum of two ponds may be allowed per operator, with the
company running any remaining ponds through hired workers. Pond operators'
income would be tied to production from their particular ponds, as in a
sharecropping arrangement, and the company would levy enough charges (to be
deducted from sale proceeds) to cover operating and maintenance expenses,
debt service payments, equity-buyback from the Government and PBDAC
(allowing adequate return on their equity investment), and some buildup of
financial reserves. Four months' consultant services of a financial
management specialist would be financed under the project to work out the
details of these arrangements and design appropriate cost recovery
mechanisms (allowing full recovery of capital and operating/maintenance
costs of all facilities, including housing), incentive schemes (including
incentives, such as through equity participation, for management and
technical staff), and financial control and reporting systems. MFFC's
operational procedures (including conditions for pond lease contracts,
rights/obligations/functions of the company versus individual pond
operators, etc.) would be spelled out in further detail during the course of
the company's establisbment.
C. Company Organization and Operation
4.       Effective management and training are the two most critical
elements for successful adoption of technology and coordination of various
activities at the Maryut fish farm. The measures proposed under the project
for this include: (a) continuous on-the-job training of pond operators by
technical supervisors and (for the first three years) by an experienced
expatriate adviser, and (b) building up the company's own staff of some 65
professionals and technicians (in addition to support personnel) by
establishing a salary and wage structure above public sector levels, which
will attract and retain high caliber people. MFFC's policies and operations
would be guided by a Board of Directors of at least four and upto 10 members
(elected by the General Assembly of sbareholders), with the Chairman being



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
appointed by the largest shareholder or group of shareholders. One
restriction that might be considered is to require the Chairman to be one of
the private shareholders and not a government representative (to prevent
continuing domination by government bureaucrats). Executive authority for
actual day-to-day operations (production, procurement, marketing, training,
etc.) would be vested in a General Manager, who would have training in
business administration and wide experience in production and operations
management of agroindustries projects. Under him would be various technical
and administrative staff in three departments (Engineering, Production and
Administration) each headed by a Director, who will together be responsible
for day-to-day farm operations, including maintenance of ponds and other
infrastructure, operation of hydraulic facilities and wintering ponds, input
purchase, fish marketing, technical advice/extension, on-the-job training,
planning and financial control, etc.
5.       Decentralization of operations would be promoted by forming six
operating divisions under the Production Department, each with a supervisor
and two deputy supervisors responsible for one block of between 26 and 38
production ponds and two wintering ponds, with their own farm center and
equipment. Each supervisor would put together his division's overall
production program for each year on the basis of pond operators' plans, and
have authority to buy inputs and' supplies as needed. Each of his deputies
would advise a team of between 13 and 19 fish farmers (one on each side of
the feeder supply/drain channel in the block) in day-to-day fish production
work, including pond preparation, sluice manipulation, fertilization,
stocking, harvesting, etc. The Engineering Department would also constitute
six divisions, four headed by civil engineers (one of whom would be
responsible for buildings, roads and other general infrastructure, and each
of the other three for two blocks of about 70 ponds) and two headed by
electrical/mechanical engineers (one for the pumping station and the other
for general infrastructure). The engineering division heads would each have
at least five years' experience, assisted by supervisors (diploma holders in
civil/mechanical trades) and other support staff, and provided adequate
transport and other equipment for their working needs. The Administration
Department, also with six divisions, would be responsible for overall finan-
cial, marketing, procurement, personnel and administrative functions.
Among the responsibilities of this department would be the establishment of
cost control and farm monitoring and evaluation systems, and development of
an incentive scheme that would place each pond block on a profit center
basis and adequately reward individual effort and initiative. The
department would be headed by a suitably qualified and experienced financial
controller to ensure that company operations are carried out on a sound
financial basis. Appointment of essential staff such as the General Manager
and three Department Directors would take place no later than December 31,
1982 (that is, some 3-4 months before start of first-stage operations at the
Maryut fish farm).



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
D. Selection of Pond Operators
6.       Careful selection of pond operators/shareholders for the Maryut
fish farm would be extremely important for successful achievement of the
project objectives. Modern fish farming requires constant vigilance and
control over such factors as water level and quality, fish population
densities, proportion of various species, level of fertilization and
nutrients in pond, etc. While some basic technical education and
entrepreneurial sense is helpful, the occupation also calls for hard manual
labor under wet conditions, for example, in maintaining embankments,
handling fish, and distributing fertilizer. Substantial investment and
working capital is needed, since cash income is only produced in a lump sum
at the end of the year. For purposes of choosing the best candidates for
training and eventual share-ownership at Maryut, preference would be given
to persons meeting the following criteria: (i) age: 23-45 years, (ii)
married, (iii) secondary school education (especially in agriculture,
veterinary science or fisheries), (iv) military service completed,
(v)practical fishing experience (or belonging to a fisherman's family), and
(vi) resident of surrounding areas. The ideal candidates would combine
managerial and technical abilities with a capacity for sheer hard physical
work under fairly regimented conditions. Operators would initially be
largely unskilled and inexperienced, with a broad spectrum of educational
backgrounds (from illiterate to university graduate) and socio-economic
circumstances. The project would train them and give them incentives
(through stock ownership) to remain and develop their skills. In order to
be able to weed out poor pond operators, the company would have the legal
right (on the advice of the general manager/production director and relevant
supervisor) to buy back shares from any individual (with appropriate
compensation for any investment he has made) at the end of an initial
two-year probationary period. Voluntary sale of shares to the company at
any time would also be allowed, but there would be no unauthorized dealing
in shares between individual shareholders or with outside entities.



- 54 -
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
Minister         l
|   Agriculture        l
Principal Bank for
Development and
Agricultural Credit                                                              for                       for Aquaculture
Fi s C tAquatic Resources                                                                          Development
C n UtCoordination
Fisheries Credit                           Committee                              *Institute of Oceanography
Coordination Unit                                                        ro     m   mnaCnutnsand Fisheries
and Monitoring U                       Consultants
Credit Scheme to                                                                                                                                   El Mex Mullet Fry
Individual Fish                                                                                                                                    Collection Station
Farmers
Maryut Fish Farming                      EL Zawveya
Company                          Training Program
Board of Directors                   Tann   rga
| General  anager
Cnsulat
Director                             Director                     r      Director
Production                           Engineering                         Administration
Department                           Department                   |      Department
Administrative
Assistant
Production                             Engineerin                        Accounts and
Division I                         Diin A                                Control DivisionA
Production                         Civil Engineering                    Planning and
Division II                        Division B                           Budgeting Division
Production           /             Civil Engineering                      Procurement
Division III                       Division C                               i
Production                        Civil Engineering                        Marketing       l
DivisionV          //             Division General)                        Division        l
Productin                 L]  Mechnical/Electrical                      Personnel and
Division V                       Division (General)                     Training Division
Production                     Mechanical/Electrical                 General Administration
Division VI
Note:
Each production division in Maryut Fish Farming Co. has 1 supervisor and 2 deputy supervisors; each civil engineering division
has 1 engineer and 2 supervisors, and civil engineering division (general) also has 1 research officer and 1 laboratory assistant;
mechanical/electrical division (general) has 1 engineer, 2 supervisors and 2 mechnics; mechanical/electrical division (pump station)
has 1 engineer, 3 technicians and 3 operators; each of the administrative divisions has 1 professional and 2 technical staff.
Support staff are additional to these.
World Bank-21922



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UNDERSECRETARIAT FOR AQUATIC RESOURCES
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTER
OF
AGRICULTURE
YNATIONAL COMMITTEE
FOR                   FOR AQUACULTURE
AQUATIC RESOURCES              DEVELOPMENT
TEC_HNICA
DIRECTORIATE~ FOR
t FODIOGN PROJECTS
DIRECTOR GENERAL   D1RECTFC GENERAL                                                                                                                                                        IHC1OR GENERAI
LAND LEASING AND                                                                    ADM,NISTRITION,PROJECTS                                                                                FIELD OFFICES AND
COOPERATIVES     jEAND AQUACUI TURE                                                                                                                                                          EXTENSION
LAND                                                     FI SHErIS             FISH                                                                       SUPERVISION          REGIONAL
COOPERATIVES          LEASING         ADMINISTRATION          FINANCE              LAND              FARMING            R                    INUTS              PR.OlCTS             AND             FIELDT OFFICE        EXTE
=S    ___ J                                                     _    _1                                                            |   . -I __                                         _3
_   g    DEIAGLIS;                                        t   Fli            j    PLANNING    l  <IN Gd   1   FEHTILX                        { LICENSIj    lCONISO                                   {      _ _
0 ADMINITRATIQ-|L  C E NH  fMIv            t   FEDS CDVI ROLN         _____              K L
CRDI                   LEGAL                                                     FISHERIEIS         PLANNINGt
FAULTSI                                                                                                                               PROJCTTCNIALAEANRIAENIS
A-                  EASTI-E--           TRA ININ
RESEARCH                                                                                                                                        ADMINISTRATIVE                            EXTENSION~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C   '  NSTLTV
ANDTOLCIN                                                                    IESIG          AMNSRFO              TCNOILOG               FEESNGIEEIN
IADMIN IS OATION                                                                                                      IATNSPECTION NAND ADMIN
XRA INING
SUPRVIION        LEADING
AND                AND0
REVIEW           CON TRACTS                                                                                                                                                                         RDSADCIET
ANLUZ    ANDTECHNICA
AS SISANCE
AANISOHAGI
WV,Id RaMk 21854



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PLANNED PUBLIC AUTHORITY FOR FISHERIES PROJECTS ANPD DEVELOCMPEPT
ORGANIZATION CHART
GLNIN                                     LEALCOTRL                                                                   DINSTATONT    TOEBARD  YCIIR
C"CN         CA RMAN          I        A
I  l    l                                                 ST
SETO           ETO               CCISI           SCINI             SCIO-              ETO              ETO -           DECTIOI           SETION    IE- IT
SECTION II      OCETION                     D     R DECTION IR SECTION                             AND SECTIONTRAT ON                                      _L      TD      EDARO  I    ECUL
IPA-T1 IH          ; A             Of] LR;MENII      -        T 11    .1                                                  -.T' -A- T 1  I DXS ICRLTD5
SETINII                  SCTOTI             ECIN ICAOLTN
SUTY CHAIRMAN |                                                                                      | DePUTY CH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIRMA- 
RESEAI TFEOMH   IODE.TVS                                                                                                                                           I                                                      -ATWITIOH5 
D IRECTOR DENERAC|                 DIRECTOR GENERAL                   DRCO GEN ERAL                                  IDIRECTOR GENERALI                      DIRECTOR GENERAL         s        DIRECTOR GENERAL|                   DIRCOR GENERAL|
EEA IS. F   IARMING            DR AININ    E     D7ENSION            PROJECTS     ENGIERN                            RIES   FIELD DCF   IIRS                                                                                      AR              IE
DEAR         TMENT DE P                                                                                                                                               I        AARTMENT DEPARTMENT A   R  DEPARTMENT  DEPARTMENT  D  E  DEPARTMENT I  DEPOT,MENE II  DEPR-   I  I TN  I
SECTIE                               STIONT          SECT   I`SECTION           I         SETIN I                                                              NC     I         R O                                 SI                E                RT 
SECTION II       SECTION II       SECTION II       SECTION II        SECTION LI        SECTION II                    SECTION II        SECTION II           SECTION II       SECTION II        SECTION II       SECTION II        SECTION II       SETTEIRM 2`



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
Table T-1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consultancy Services
No.     Speciality                  Location               Period         Costli
(manmonths)      (us$'0Oo)
1.   Aquaculture/pond
management                    Maryut                 36               385.2
2.   Financial management          Maryut                   4               42.8
3.   Aquaculture engineering,    Maryut & El Zaweya    18                  192.6
harvesting methods, etc.
(short-term)
4.   Aquaculture/pond              El Zaweya               24              256.8
management training
5.   Mullet fry collection         El Mex                   4               42.8
and conditioning
6.   Monitoring and                Cairo (FCCU)             6               64.2
Evaluation
7.   Extension                     Cairo (USAR)             6               64.2
& El Zaweya
8.   Construction supervision    Maryut                    33              353.1
9.   Project Preparation           Cairo (PIMU & FCCU)   36                385.2
10.   Fish Marketing                Cairo (PIMU)            18              192.6
11.   Detailed engineering          Maryut                  50              535.0
work 2/
Total                                       235            2,514.5
1/ Average base cost of $10,700 per manmonth (including professional
fees, travel, and per diem), of which about 85% would be foreign
exchange.
2/ Already being financed under IDA's Project Preparation Facility.



- 58 -
ANNEX 2
Table T-2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates j/
LE'000                             uS$  0ooo               % Foreign
Ltem                                                    Local    Foreign    Total              Local    Foreign   Total        Exchange
Civil Works
Maryut Fish Farm:
Pump Station                                   331.6    221.1         552.7           474.2      316.2    790.4         40.0
Ponds & Feeder Channels                      1,407.4    934.2    2,341.6            2,012.6   1,335.9  3,348.5          39.9
Main Canal                                     304.2    201.3         505.5           435.0       287.9    722.9        3q.8
Main Drain                                      129.3      84.9       214.2           184.9       121.4    306.3        3q.6
Field Centers                                   119.3      79.6       198.9           170.6       113.8    284.4        40.0
Administration & Market Buildings              132.6      88.4        221.0           189.6       126.4    316.0        40.0
Housing & General Infrastructure               362.3    308.4         670.7           518.1      441.0    959.1         46.0
Subtotal                                     2,786.7  1,917.9    4,704.6            3,985.0   2,742.6  6,727.6         40.8
Worker Housing                                         442.6    295.0        737.6            632.9      421.9  1,054.8        40.0
Effluent Pipeline                                       90.6    135.9        226.5            129.5      194.4    323.9         60.0
Individual Fish Farmer Credit Scheme                   910.0    500.6    1,410.6            1,301.3      715.9  2,017.2        3S.5
El Mex rry Collection Stn';-n                           34.6      25.5         60.1            49.5       36.4      85.9       42.4
El Zaweya Training Program                              74.6      49.7        124.3           106.7       71.0    177./        40.0
Subtotal                          4,339.1  2,924.6    7,263.7            6,204.9   4,182.2 10,387.1         40.3
Machinery & Equipment
Maryut Fish Farm;
Pump Station (incl. installation)               49.9    449.3         499.2            71.4      642.5    713.9         90.0
Portable/mobile Pumps                           12.4    111.7         124.1            17.7       159.7    177.4        90.0
Vehicles                                         53.8    428.0        481.8             76.9      612.1    689.0        88.8
Other Equipment & Gear                          28.1    113.7         141.8            40.2       162.6    202.8        80.2
Subtotal                                       144.2  1,102.7      1,246.9            206.2   1,576.9  1,783.1          88.4
Individual Fish Farmer Credit Scheme                   111.8  1,006.6    1,118.4              159.9   1,439.4  1,599.3         90.0
El Mex Fry Collection Station                            4.2      32.4        36.6              6.0       46.3      52.3       88.5
El Zaweya Training Program                              15.6      68.8         84.4            22.3       98.4    120.7        81.5
Extension Services                                       5.4      46.8         52.2             7.7       67.0      74.7       89.7
Monitoring & Evaluation                                   5.5     44.8         50.3             7.8       64.1      71.9       89.1
Project Administration (PIMU & FCCU)                     7.9      66.9        74.8             11.3       95.7    107.0        89.4
Subtotal                            294.6  2,369.0    2,663.6              421.2   3,387.8  3,809.0         88.9
Services
Engineering Designs & Studies2/                        112.7    637.3        750.0            161.2      911.3  1,072.5        85.0
Construction Supervision                                37.0    209.9        246.9             52.9      300.2    353.1        85.0
Maryut Fish Farm Administration                        621.6    318.0        939.6            888.9      454.7  1,343.6         33.8
El Mex Fry Collection Station                           28.0      25.4         53.4            40.0       36.3      76.3       47.6
El Zaweya Training Program                              82.8    665.1        747.9            118.4      951.1  1,069.5        88.9
Extension Services                                      73.3      38.1        111.4           104.8       54.5    159.3         34.2
Monitoring & Evaluation                                 39.8      38.1         77.9            56.9       54.5    111.4        48.9
Project Preparation Study                               40.4    229.0        269.4             57.8      327.5    385.3        85.0
Fish Marketing Study                                    20.2    114.5        134.7             28.9      163.7    192.6        85.0
Project Administration (PIMU & FCCU)                   135.8       --        135.8            194.2       --       194.2         --
Subtotal                          1,191.6  2,275.4    3,467.0            1,704.0   3,253.8  4,957.8         65.6
Total Base Cost                                      5,825.3  7,569.0   13,394.3            8,330.1  10,823.8 19,153.9          56.5
Contingencies
Physical _                                           725.2    670.7    1,395.9            1,037.0      959.1  1,996.1        48.0
Price 4/                                           2,089.7   1,529.1   3,618.8            2,988.4   2,186.5  5,174.9         42.3
Subtotal                          2,814.9  2,199.8    5,014.7            4,025.4   3,145.6  7,171.0         43.9
GRAND TOTAL                                          8,640.2  9,768.8   18,409.0           12,355.5  13,969.4 26,324.9          53.1
l/  At December 1980 base prices.
J This includes a US$ I million IDA advance under the Project Preparation Facility, half of which assisted
in financing the project feasihility study.
3/ Physical Contingencies: 15% for civil works; 5% for equipment and services.
2   Expected Price Increases:  Local Costs   - 15% in 1981, 12% in 1982, 10% per annum thereafter.
Foreign Costs - 9% in 1981, 8% in 1982, 7% per annum thereafter.



AHAB REFUBLIC OF 1407n
FISH FARMING HEVELOPHENT P083ECT
E.timuted Schedule of Eope-dit-res
1981                               1082                                 1083                                  1984                               1985                         Total Fop-od-core
lit-a                       ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~Loca  Focigo    Total   Local      ForI-gn      Tara!       Local      Forei gn    Total          Local    Forign    Total           I-oI    Foreig           Total       Local    Forrig        Total
CIVIL WOIlIO
CMryot Fish Foroti
Pomp Staio   (tool. hoot-gl                         33.2        22 .0       505.2      218.8       146.0        364.8       46.4         31.0        717. 4       11.3       22.1        55.3                     --                     331.6       231.1       5 52.27
Fonds I Feeder   hese. Is                         140.1         93.4       234.1       72 3 .7     467.2      1,170.0      42.7.       200.2        702.4        140.8       93.4       234.2        ----                             1,407.4        034.2    2,341.6
Main Caoal                                          30.4        20.1        50.1       182.5       120.8        303.2        60.0        40.2       101.1         30.1       20.2        50.4         ----                               304.2       201.3       505.5
CueDrain                                          121.         8.4         21.3        22.5        51.0        2118.       26.         18.0        42.0          02.3        8.6        21.5         --                                120.3         84.9       214.2
Field Ce-ter                                        1.9          8.0        1.          28.8        12.5         13.3        0.2 17                 22.8          110I. 1.0                           ---                                119.3        79.6       198.9
Ad-sisltriioo  H M-akct 8ildings                    13.3         8.8        22.1        82.5        58.4         105.0       18.5        12.4        009           13.         .         221         ---                                  3 2.6       HC4        221.8
Unoeteg 6 General Intosetrootort      ~~~~36.2     38.8        81.11      239.1       283.6        442.2        50.2        43.2        930          3.          88         6.           -          -              -        362.3       3088.       628.
Soheta                                             20..115.7.                        1,5819      1,009.5      2,682.4      i414        435.0    1,016.4          218.       191.9       420.7        --           --           --     2,7H86.      1,912.9    4,184.6
-okr  louc                                         22.1        14.8        36.0       123.9        83.6        286.5      1373         9.4         228.2        086.2       78.8       122.8        53.1         3 5 .4       88.5     442.6        295.8       2317.6
ffIloen   FiFeline                                        9.0        13.6        123.6       68.8       001.0        160.9       13.6         28.4        34.0         -          -           ------                                           98.6       135.9       226.5
ndi-doal  F-sh Farme   Credit Schem                     91.0         18.8       141.8       136.5        25.1        211.6      182.8       188.1       282.1         227.5      125.2       352.2       223.8       158.2        425.2      918.8        588.6    1,4 18.8
1 8ec Fry Collnotion  Scation         94.0        ~~~~~~~~~25.  601        -            -           -          .----                                             -          --          -                                    34.8        25.8        48.1
El Zaueya   eu-icf Frgr-                                 14.6      _49.0        124.3        -7- -                               -            -           -             -.        -            --                      --                       4.6        49.        14.3
Sobtolel                         589.9       345.1       855.0    1,916.3    1,359.1        3,275.4      024.3       646.9    1,621.2          612.5      387.9    1,888.4        324.1        185.6        511.7  4,399.1    2,924.8    2,263.2
FueF Station  (in-l. ieauio(                         2 .5       22 . 5      23.8        16.4       1483          1 64 .7     26.8       233 .6      2519.6          5.0      44.9       4;199        -                          -         49.9       449.,3      499.2
PIoeable/mobtle FP-p--                                          --          --           8.         72.6          80.2        3.         229          1.            1.2       11.2        12.4       I-----                               1.4        I'I.1       124.1
Veices-                                                         -           -           1.          83.6          96.3       26.9       214.8       240.          108        8.           6.4          5.4        42.8         48.2       538        428.0       481.
Othe  cEc-Fee-  H Gea                 -                         -.-    -     -            5.          21          2.         48          5.           0.9           5.7      22.2        28.4          2.         I1.4         14.2       28.1        1197      141.
Suhinial                               ~~~~       ~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~~2.3  122.3  23.0  48.8  329.2      318.8       20.8       992.4       6032.4         22.       164.4       187.1         8.2        94.2          62.4      144.2    1,182.2    1,246.9
lodindoal F-th Furse   Crdi    ohta12                              100.6       1118          16.8       151.8        167.8       22.4       281.3       223.2          22.9      251.1       279.6        33.5       302.8         335.5     811.8    1,706.8    1,118.4
1 Cc  Fry Calleoti-n  SLaci                            3.4        26.8        38.2         0.2          1.4          1.6        0.2         1.4         1.6          0.2         1.4         1.6         I.m14                    1.6        4.2        32.4         56.6
El Z-eya Trancing Frogoam                                10 .8       59.2        70.0         1.1         2.4           9.6        1.2         0.4         3.6          1.2        2.4         3.6          1.2         2.4          3.6       13.6        68.8        8 4.
etoieSernio-                                        3.         45.2        30.2         0.1         0.4           0.        0.1          0.4         0.3          0.1        0.4         8.5         0.1          0.4          8.         5.4        48.8         32.'2
Cosiot-nig 8 fE-loui-                                     4.2'       40.4        45.1         0.2         1.1           1.3        0.2         1.1         1.3'         0.2        1.1         1.3          0.2         I1.1         1.3'        5.5       44.8        58.
Fr-j-o  Adiaini-rai-o  (P288 & FCCOI                      5.        43.2         48.2         2.3        'O.I          22.        0.           1.2         1m4          0.2        1.2         1.0         8.2          Im?          1.4        7.8        44.9        74.8
Sobicca1                          42.6       332.9       380.5        61.6       583.6         567.2       94.3      740.2        834.5         52.5      422.6       475.1        43.8        362.2        406.3      294.6    2,349.0    2,663.8
SF88VICES8
Engieeeueg Design   & St.idtstl                        112.2        632.3       750.0        --          --          --          --           --          --           --         --          --          --           --           --        112.2       631.3       250.8
Coosgroction  Hopernisioc                 ~~~~       ~~~~~       ~~2.3  12.6  14.9  15.2   89.2        104.9       152         89.2       104.9           3.3       189         722.2       --          --           --          37.8       289.9       246.9
Catyot  Fish Fare Adeun-gtrat-                           --          -            -          -            --                    202.2        I06.0       313.2        202.2      188.8       313.2       207 .2       10.0         313.2      621.        318.        936
El M-c F,, Colcoti-oc   Hcic                              6.9        12.2        19.6         2.0        12.2          19.2        4.2        --           42           47        --           4.2         .7         --4.                    28.         254         53.4
E1 Za-ya Trainig FPBrain                                 18.4       143.3       161.2        22.3       094.1        221.4        18.        143.0       161I.4         9.4       92.3       101.           9.4        92.3        11.7        82.        665,1       742.9
E.rtianSeri-n                                            16.7        19.0        35.2        16.2        19.1          33.8       13.3        _-          13.3         13.3       --          13.3         13.3        --1.3                   15.3        38.1       111.4
Cues.t--ceg  4---usios                                    I0.0       19.0        29 .0       10.0        19.1          29.1        6.6        --           6.8           6.6      --            6.6         6.6        --6.6                   39.8         38.1        22.9
Fr-ro   Fee'par-tion Sc`dy                               --          --          --          13.5I       76.3          89.8      28.2       114.5        134.7          6.7       38.2        44.9        -                         --         40.4       229.0       269.4
F-h8 Cuekeieg Study                                       8.7        38.2        44.9        13.         78.3         89.8        -            -          -             -         -            --                      --                      28.2       114.5       1347
FF-je-  Adaini-t--n   (FICOl 8 FCCOI                     32.2        --          32.2        32.2        --            92.3      23.8        --           23.8         23.8       --            3.8        23.8        --23.8                 135.8        --         135.8
Sohbo-l                         205.9        882.1    1,888.0        135.9       488.8        672.7      309.8       492.8        762.6        225.0      235.4       598.4       285.0        198.3        463.3   1,191.8    2,225.4    3,442.0
TOTAL BASE COS7                                         758.4    1,565.1    2,323.5    2,113.8    3,351.5          4,465.9   7,378.4    1,839.9    3,218.9            940.0   1,065.9    2,005.9         634.7        746.8i     7,381.3   5,825.3    2,589.0   13,304.3
phys i_aL2                                            88.0       112.8       201.7       297.3        793.5        558.:8    1,66.4       156.7I      323.1         108.'3      02.1       208.         64.3l       55.6         119.9     725.2        878.7    1,395.9
pri_s                                                 81.8         7.5        132.3       528.1       340,         822.72    543.2        4I5.2       928.9         511.       352.8       883.51      444.8       3.3           781.9  2,089.7    1,5_29.1    3,618i.2.
Sobineal                ~~~~~~     ~~158.7  188.3  339.0     825.4       802.6      1,428.0      710.1       591.0    1,302.0          619.8      044.1    1,063.0        508.9       322.9         881.8   2,814.9    2,199.8    5,014.2
GRAND 08OT1L                                           909.1   j,_j3.~4   2a66.8         a2,99.2,954.l            5,893.   2,0885h2,431             4,120.1        .1        1,818.8    3,089.9   1,143,.6   1.1.9.5,  2,~j26.j  8,840.2    9.768,8   18,409.8
I/ ~, Scobh-  1980 hab-         ros
21Th totr lde    aU80   1  ilIII_  180 ado--o  ond,o  the Project  Fre7-ai-  Fanilito, halt of e~h to6 .ani-tili  fi-naotg
the 1.1 Fr Ic   te-ihilily tiody.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           't
3/  Fhyut-lro--tg-oie-ettiea-d at 151 too  toi I coke.  and 51 for eq-pset  and
El8pet-td pe ite i-oruse   arcus  ol os
Aenoal      Cumulastives            A... 1    C-molui-e
1981          15             7.5                  9              4.5
1982          12           21.9                   8             13.4
1983          10           39.2                   2             21.
1984          10           48.8                    7            30.
1983          10           63.6                   7             39.5



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
Table T-4
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Equipment for Maryut Fish Farm
Total Cost
Item                       No.  Unit Pricpel      Local     Foreign    Total
--------------------(LE)---------------------
Pumps (capacity 0.9m3/sec;9Okw)         4   66,500           26,600   239,400      266,000
Pumps(portable, 15-20bp,
100 I/sec, low head)                   6    7,700           4,620    41,580        46,200
Pumps(mobile, 200 I/sec)                4   14,300            5,720    51,480        57,200
Tractors(70hp w/front shovel
& trailer)                             6    8,500            5,100    45,900       51,000
Trucks(6ton, flat bed)                  3   17,800            5,340    48,060        53,400
Station Wagons                          4   13,300           5,320    47,880        53,200
Pickups(light, 4 wd)                   10    5>400            5,400    48,600        54,000
Pickup(heavy duty, 3/4 ton)             1    7,100              710     6,390         7,100
Buses(16-20 passenger)                  4   23,400          14,040    79,560        93,600
Sludge Lorry                            1   18,000            1,800    16,200       18,000
Ditch Cleaner (w/attachment
for bank shaping)                      1   60,000           6,000    54,000        60,000
Motorcycles                            16       700           1,120    10,080        11,200
Marketing Equip. (Cold
Storage, etc.)                       Sum                    6,180    35,020        41,200
Laboratory Equipment                  Sum                     2,700    15,300        18,000
Furniture & Misc. Equipment           Sum                     9,200    13,800        23,000
Fry Transport Tanks (2m2)               2  )
Water Blowers                           3  )                  5,400    30,600        36,000
Floating Aerators(lhp)                  6  )
Nets, Rope and Gear                   Sum  )
Spare Parts for above                 Sum                   21,050   156,770       177,820
Subtotal                                         126,300   940,620   1,066,920
Physical Contingencies                             6,315    47,030        53,345
Total                                            132,615   987,650   1,120,265
i/ Estimated December 1980 prices.



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
Table T-5
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Equipment for Credit, Training, and El Mex Collection Station
Total Cost
Item                       No.  Unit Price!/    Local    Foreign   Total
( ----------------(LE)-------
Individual Fish Farmer Credit Scheme
Pickups(light, 4 wd)                  100    5,400          54,000      486,000   540,000
Pumps(25 1/sec)                        60    2,400           14,400     129,600   144,000
Pumps(75 1/sec)                        40    6,200          24,800      223,200   248,000
Spare Parts for above                 Sum                   18,640      167,760   186,400
Subtotal                                        111,840   1,006,560 1,118,400
Physical Contingencies                             5,590       50,330    55,920
Total                                            117,430   1,056,890 1,174,320
El Zaweya Training Program
Station Wagon                           1   13,300           1,330       11,970    13,300
Pickups(light, 4wd)                     2    5,400            1,080        9,720    10,800
Motorcycles                             4      700              280        2,520      2,800
Bus(16-20 passenger)                    1   23,400            3,510       19,890    23,400
Nets, Rope and Gear                   Sum                       750        4,250      5,000
Furniture & Misc. Equipment           Sum                     6,000        9,000    15,000
Spare Parts for above                 Sum                    2,590       11,470    14,060
Subtotal                                          15,540       68,820    84,360
Physical Contingencies                               780        3,440      4,220
Total                                             16,320       72,260    88,580
El Mex Mullet Fry Collection Station
Water Supply System(including
10 1/sec, pump set)                    1   10,700           1,070        9,630    10,700
Pickups(light, 4wd)                     2    5,400            1,080        9,720    10,800
Nets, Rope and Gear                  10 Sets   300              450        2,550      3,000
Miscellaneous Equipment               Sum                       900        5,100      6,000
Spare Parts for above                 Sum                       700        5,400     6,100
Subtotal                                           4,200       32,400    36,600
Physical Contingencies                               210        1,620      1,830
Total                                              4,410       34,020    38,430
1/ Estimated December 1980 prices.



- 62 -                                    ANNEX 2
Table T-6
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Equipment for Extension Services,
Monitoring & Evaluation, and Administration
Total Cost
Item                       No.  Unit Pricel!/    Local        Foreign      Total
---------------------(LE)---______________
Extension Services
Station Wagon                            1   13,300            1,330      11,970    13,300
Pickups(light, 4 wd)                     4    5,400            2,160      19,440    21,600
Motorcycles                              8       700             560       5,040      5,600
Mi3c. Office Equipment                 Sum                       450       2,550      3,000
Spare Parts for above                 Sum                        900       7,800      8,700
Subtotal                                            5,400      46,800    52,200
Physical Contingencies                                270       2,340      2,610
Total                                               5,670      49,140    54,810
Monitoring and Evaluation
Station Wagon                            1   13,300            1,330      11,970      13,300
Pickups(light, 4 wd)                     4    5,400            2,160      19,440      21,600
Misc. Office Equipment                 Sum                     1,050       5,950       7,000
Spare Parts for above                 Sum                        910       7,470       8,380
Subtotal                                            5,450      44,830      50,280
Physical Contingencies                                270       2,245       2,515
Total                                               5,720      47,075      52,795
Administration (PIMU)
Station Wagons                           2   13,300            2,660      23,940      26,600
Pickups(light, 4 wd)                     2    5,400            1,080       9,720      10,800
Misc. Office Equipment                 Sum                       450       2,550       3,000
Spare Parts for above                 Sum                        840       7,240       8,080
Subtotal                                            5,030      43,450      48,480
Physical Contingencies                                250       2,175       2,425
Total                                               5,280      45,625      50,905
Administration (FFCU)
Station Wagon                      1   13,300            1,330      11,970       13,300
Motorcycles                        8       700              560       5,040       5,600
Misc. Office Equipment                 Sum                       450       2,550       3,000
Spare Parts for above                 Sum                        470       3,910       4,380
Subtotal                                            2,810      23,470      26,280
Physical Contingencies                                140       1,175       1,315
Total                                               2,950      24,645      27,595
/ Estimated December 1980 prices.



- 63 -
ANNEX 2
Table T-7
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements
Fiscal Year and Quarter                       Quarterly             Cumulative
(ending on dates indicated)                     --------(uS$ Million)----------
FY 1981
March 31, 1981                                    0.6/a                      0.6
June 30, 1981                                     0.2/a                     0.8
FY 1982
September 30, 1981                                0.2/a                     1.0
December 31, 1981                                 0.2                        1.2
March 31, 1982                                    0.4                        1.6
June 30, 1982                                     0.6                       2.2
FY 1983
September 30, 1982                                0.7                       2.9
December 31, 1982                                 0.7                        3.6
March 31, 1983                                    0.9                       4.5
June 30, 1983                                     0.9                        5.4
FY 1984
September 30, 1983                                0.9                       6.3
December 31, 1983                                 1.0                        7.3
March 31, 1984                                    0.8                       8.1
June 30, 1984                                     1.0                       9.1
FY 1985
September 30, 1984                                1.3                      10.4
December 31, 1984                                 0.7                       11.1
March 31, 1985                                    0.7                      11.8
June 30, 1985                                     0.5                      12.3
FY 1986
September 30, 1985                                0.5                      12.8
December 31, 1985                                 0.4                      13.2
March 31, 1986                                    0.4                      13.6
June 30, 1986                                     0.4                      14.0
/a Advance from Project Preparation Facility, of which US$ 0.5 million
was disbursed prior to FY 1981.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
CALENDAR
YEAR                      1980                              1981                             1982                              1983                             1984                              1985
ACTIVITY                                               1       2       3       4        1        2       3       4        1       2       3        4       1        2       3       4        1       2        3       4       1        2       3       4
MARYUT FISH FARM
Project Planning/Preparation:
Selection of Consultants
Preparation of Detailed Designs & Spncificatinus
Preparation of Tender Documents
Pregqulitication of Contractors
Te-det _og
Bid Evaluation and Awatd of Contract
Contractor Mobiliaution                                                                                          _      _
Corestr-ction:                                                                                                                CONFIRM          IFABRICATE           SHIP    INSTALL        COMMISSION
Pump Station   Equipment                                                                                                                -                              SITE          TEST
Works                                                                                                            -                                              | -      S
Main Canal                                                                                                                              -                 =
Ponds and Fender Channels
Main Drain
General Infrastructure
Other Actiities:
Selection and Training of Pond Operators                                                                                        m                -              -
Establishment of Merpvt Fish F.arming Co.                                                              -        -                                         _
Procurement of Equipment                                                                                                                -                         -       -       -        -
C.nsultancy Services
CREDIT SCHEME
Treniing of Credit Appraisers
Appraisal of Sublo.n Applications                                                                             .                                                    -                         - i                      -       -        -       -
Subloans to Fish Farmers                                                                                                          -                                                          -       -                -        - =                    -
TRAINING PROGRAM
Design and Construction of Works 
Procurnment of Equipment
Consultancy Services                                                                                       _     _
EL MEX MULLET FRY COLLECTION STATION
Design and Construction of Works 
Procurement of Equipment
Consultancy Services
SUPPORT ACTIVITIES (CONSULTANCY SERVICES)
Extension-                                                                                                                --
Monitoring-and Ealuation                                                                                                                  -
Fish Marketing Study                                                                                                   _
IDA
Appraisal                                                       _
Negotiations
Boo,ed Presentation                                                                                 *
_   _   _.     __                                                                         ____       _____ _ __.___                                        _                                                                                                 j__       _ . . _ _ _       _ _ 
Eflectinre-ss
World Bank  21853



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pond Fish Population Management
KEEPING IN
STOCKING                                                 HARVESTING                         WINTERING PONDS
Species             Period            Number         Weight        Period        Survival    Number  Weight          Number       Weight
(per feddan)   (kg/feddan)                      (%)      (per fed) (kg/fed)  (per fed)   (kg/fed)
Year 1 Operations
Mullet ceph.        March-May          2,000           0.4         Nov./Dec.        50          400        80          600           30
Mullet cap.         March-May          3,000           0.4         Nov./Dec.         60         900       120          900           30
Tilapia nil.        March-May               -        100.0         Nov./Dec.         -       5,000        400             -          60
600                       120
Year 2 Operations
Mullet ceph.        March-May            (600)-/    (30.0)          July-Sept.       80        (480)1/  (100)
2,000          0.4          Nov.-Dec.        50         400        80           600          30
Mullet cap.         March-May            (900)-/    (30.0)          July-Sept.       80        (720)1/  (100)             -           -
3,000          0.4          Nov.-Dec.        60         900       120           900          30
Tilapia nil.        March-May               -        (60.0)        July-Sept.        -            -      (150)            -           -
-         Nov.-Dec.         -           -       200             -          60
750                       120
Year 3 Operations
Mullet ceph.        March-May            (600)-/     (30.0)        July-Sept.        80        (480)1/  (120)             -           -
2,000          0.4          Nov.-Dec.        50         500       120           500           30
Mullet cap.         March-May            (900)-      (30.0)         July-Sept.       80        (720)1/  (120)             -            -
3,000          0.4          Nov.-Dec.        60         900       120           900           30
Tilapia nil.        March-May               -        (60.0)        July-Sept.         -           -      (200)            -           -
Nov.-Dec.         -           -       220             -          60
900                       120
Year 4 Operations
Mullet ceph.        March-May            (500)1/    (30.0)          July-Sept.       80        (400)1/  (140)             -            -
2,000          0.4          Nov.-Dec.        60         600       140           600           30
Mullet cap.         March-May            (900)-      (30.0)         July-Sept.       80        (720)-/  (130)             -            -
3,000          0.4          Nov.-Dec.        70       1,200       170           900           30
Tilapia             March-May               -        (60.0)         July-Sept.        -           -      (200)            -           -
Nov.-Dec.         -           -       270             -          60
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _  _      _   _  _   _  _      _1,5                                                          120                r
1/ From wintering ponds.
2/ Only at Maryut (not under the credit scheme to individual fish farmers).



ARAB REPUBLIC OF E0FYPT
FISII FAHING DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Non   for 10 Fcdd nodjoidoal Fish Farm  1 imrroor.ent) id
Wirhoort
trm                         FrP-ject/2 Year 1        2           3          0            5            6           7           8             9         10         11           12           13        14           15          16         17          18          19         20
Iooestment 6 Replaoemrnt Lnste'2
Prodoosisol Fond
(rarth=orks) /_                     --       6-112        --        --          --                 --           --          --          -- -              --         ----------- ---
b                /2ce;                          :4 I, 525                                --          --                                         - --  -- -- __  __ -   _ _            _           _          _           _           __                     __
Fans BOildioR  /7                              1,271       --         --         --           --
Osatr FPsp  -                         --       3,024       --         --          --          --           -3 --                    --          --                    3,024           --         --          --
Fickop /9                            --        6229 804               --          --          --           --        --~          6,8011,                   -- --       --            --         --          -        6,804              --                --         --      (1,944)
SOtot l1                         --      19,880        --        --          --          --           --           --        6,804         --                    3,024           --         --          --       6,804         --          --         --                  (1.944)
OpeFntinog M Hintenance Costs
Fish Fry    U                         324        824       324        324        324          324          324         314          324         324         3224          3                      324         324        324         324        324         324        324         324
Cow Noosre 111              ~~~        ~~~80  240  240      240         240         24           240          240         240         240         240         240           240        240         240        240         240         24804                   4          4
Chicke  ansto  /12                    --         490       490        490        490          490          490         490          490         490         490         490           490        490         490        490         490        490         490        490         498
Cottoosord Cnkr /13                   226        --        --         --         --           --           --          --           --                       -          --            --         --          --
QsicklieL /14                         --          40         40        40         40           40           40          40           40          40          40          40            40         40          40         40          4          40          40          40         40
LandL,ease_/1                          50         50         50        30          50          30           50           30          50          50          50          50 350                     00                   50          50          50         50          50         50
Labar /1L6                            250        230        230       250        230          250          230         250          230         250"        250         250           750        230         250        25          250        250         250        2 550       208
Cmii W-rkt Maittrsa--e /77           250         503       503        503         503         503          303         503          303         503         503         503           503        503         503        503         503        503         503         503        503
Eqoi-pet 040 /7                                 .512     1,512      1,512      1,512        1,512        1,512         13.1.      1.512       1.512       1,512      1_512          1,512      1.512       1,512     1_512        1,512      1,512       1.512      1,512       1.512
Onbtotal                       1,180      3,909      3,409     3,409       3,409       3,409        3,409        3,409       3,409       3,409       3,409       3,409         3,409      3,409       3,409      3,409       3,409       3,409      3,409       3,409      3.409
l--rrmeatal Costs                    --      22,609      2,229     2,229       2,229        2,229       2,229        2,229        9,033      2,229        2,229       5,253        2,229       2,229      2,229       9,033      2,229       2,229       2,229      2,229         285
Benefi-s  /41                      3,749       6,426    E,8E0    10,737       10,737       10,737      10,737       10,737       10,737     10.737       10,737      10,737       10,737      10,737     10,737      10,737     10,737      10,737      10,737     10,737      10,737
Incrrmrnnal Berefilt                 --        2,677    5,131    6,988         6.988        6,980       6.988        6,988        6900       6,908       6_980       6,988        6.980        6,988      6,988       6,988      6,988       6,988      6_988       6,988       6.988
Ort tnrrrmen_al                       --       (19,932)             2,902      4,759       3_359        4,759        4,759        4,759     (2,045)       4,759      1_735         4,759       49            7      59 (2,0 45)    4,759     4.759       4.759     4,759        6,703
Be-fsits (Costs)
Financial  rtsrn on In-estnen  * 18.6%
CASH FLOWS INCLUDING FINANCING:
Net Inc -emenssl Eesfits (Costa) --            (19,932)             2,902      4,759        4,759       4,759        4,759        4,759     (2,045)       4,759       1,735        4,759       4,759      4,759      (2,045)    4,759        4,759       4,759      4,7S9       6.703
Long-term l.oan /20                  _        15,904       -_         -          --
DObt Serni-n Payme-s/21               --         --       (867)      (788)   (2,430)    (2.209)    (2,008)    (1 826)    (1,660)   (1I509)    (t 372)   (1,247)                       --         --          --
Ott Cashl IotIon (Ostflo-)            --     (4,028)   2035   .3,971           2329         2.550       2_751        2,933       (3.705)     3,250        3,387         488        4_759       4,759       4,259   (2,Q45)    4.759          4,759       4,759      4,259       6.703
Financi.al Re--m on Egmity - 63.8t
/1 At Oecrmerc 1900 constant prices.
/2  0.3 m     deep pond, stili3ing drainsgr rater, sith  -rosn-s-etiae af perimeter dike - 0.9 i2, and rith see slsice.
/_  Costnin ilode  151 phynical  'ontingee-y far c5i 1mrks, and 51 phyical .            ontingesoy PIus 20Z nlloanee Far sp.rr pares tar eqni=ei           t atnd nehictes.
/4  1.0 a deep peed, sit  total  -artil,-ks s of 6,012 m3;  rrs-seretie af perimeter dike                    2   I.3  in2.
/5   2,400 n2 in area.
/6 3ounits.
/7  Simple shed neroctore  lop aorking and staragn.
/3   25 I/s_c. capacity; 10 yoac lifc.
/9  Light, 4 ad pickop; 7 year life.
/42  2,000 mallet cephalas and 3,000  .oltrt ospino p-r feddan rvery year., -nald at LE 6.6/1,000.  Alsn, 100 kg tilapia nilaticas in fi-t yrar af nperati-n, nalerd as LE 500/te.-
/13 3ons/eddan a  LE 8/ton.
/1-2 7 en./teddan at LE 7/ton.
/13 I tan/feddan  (=ithoue project noly) an LE 22.6/t-n
lj4 400 kg/feddan at LE 10/-o.
/21 LE S/leddae.
1 Ianyear at LE I/day and anerage of 250 dayn pre year.
/17 5% of initial i-ne.t.ent.cott.
/18 20% of initial in-et s.ent rat  for piokap, and 5% no  innesteret cant fee rst  peep.
/19 With-et prraertz  350 kg/feddan, of nhich 13Z m. cephnl-s, 20Z m. -apien, and 67% tilapia.  With pr-jeet;  600 kg/feddan-,  50 kh/feddan and
900 kg/feddan in first,  --cond and third  (and a-b-nqete() yearn af aperation.  Species camposition  in vear I = 137 molnt rephalus, 70% mullet
capito, and 67% tilaFia; near 7 = 24% m. ceptalus, 29% m. capitg, and 42% tilapia; orar 3 - 27Z a. orphales. 26%  m.  -apitn, and 47Z tilapir.
/20  80% of innescetns cotta.
/21  10 y      _ac rapay_ent period (incloding 2 yearn  initial grac); intercst = 6Z pot an-om.  All p.y.en-n dir.or-ted at 10% esperted anecal inflation  en empres.  thet  in e.n-tast ptices.



ARAB REPRBI.C OF EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
P roanriol Orodl Err Raryat Pond Oprrairr 7].
t er        =                   ea rl     2         3           A   ) 3             -          -           -         -            - _          _         _ _         _        _ _         _        _ _         -         -      -       -        -       -      - - - - - - - ---- 6  7  90  71  12  77  74  15_  16  77- 0  19  20  21
G,oss Grtput'%                    7,325.6  10,123.2 12,240.2 14,3762.  14.376.0  14,376.0 14,376.0  14,376.0 14,376.0  14,376.0                  14,376.0 14,376.0 14,376.0 14,376.0  170376.0 14,376.0 14,176.0   14,376.0   14,176.0  14,376.0   14,376 .0
Operat_ng lnputs:/3
Fnth Fry                          946.2       376.2     376.2    376.7    376.2           33 6.2    3          76.2   326.2     326.2  376.2     376.2      376.2    376.2    376.2          376.2     37b.2    376.2         376.2        376.2     376.2         376.2
m-a,-res                          R32.2      832.2    032.2    832.2    837.2           032.2      .37.2      032.2    632.2        032.2        832.2    802.2    832.2         832.2      R32.2    832.2    832.2           832.2        832.2    832.2          832.2
Chem-io 7n,8                                   79.0      76.0      79.8       79.0       79.8       39.8       79.1       79.0       79.R         79.8       70.8       79.0      29.0        79.0      79.R      79.R         79.0         79.R      29.0          79.R
Ice                                22.7       90.9      709.1       7.2    127.2        127.2    72727.         72       27.2       727.2        127.2      727.2    127.2       127.2      177.2   177.7         77.2        127.2        127.2     127.2         127.2
Suttotal                        1,930.9   1,379.7   1,397.3  1,415.4  1,415.4    7,415.4  2,473.4    4,419.A   1,A14.4    1,415.4             1,4S5.4    1,415.4  1,A1S.4  1,417.4    1,415.4  1,415.4  1,415.4             1,415.4    1,415.4    1,415.4        1,415.4
Ne- Operating Jome                3 5,3q4.7 86,744.1  70,842.9 12,960.6 12,960.6  72.960.6 12.960,6   12,960.6  2,060.4  172,960 .6              1?,:60.6 12,960.6 12,960.6 12,q60.6  12,960.6 12,960.6 72.960.6   12,960.6   12,960.6  12,960.6    12,960.6
Ow-Rar  Rednre-n-a by CE.:/4
Fqnip-co G Openne o.              443.6       443.0    443.0    443.8    443.8          443.0       443.0    4,43 .     441 .0      443.0         441.0    443.6    443.6        443.8      443.0    443.8       433.0        443.0        443.0      443.0        44. 10
tq-.pmene/Wrhk  MHaint.           675.3      673.3    6753.3    67.3         675.3      679.3    67.3         673.3    679.3        679.3         679.3     679.9     679.3      673. 6679.3    673.3    673.3                679.3        673.3      673.3        625.3
tq.sipmere Replacement             --          --        --        ---                                                  611.2   7,529.0           612.1     701.4    172.3    b6.7            -_       671.2   1,529.4        612.1        305.6       --           --
Otler tadmie. ,lrbor,etc.7        886.4      006.7      086.4    006.4       006.4      006.4    066.4        086.4    806.4        006.4         886.4     886.4      886.4     886.4    806.4   806.4          886.4        886.4        886.4      886.4        886.4
Subtotal                        2,005.5   2,005.5  2,005.9  2,009.9  2,005.3    2,005.9  2,009.9   2,005.5  2,616.7    3,534.9                 2,617.6  2,706.9  2,157.8  2,066.2    2,009.9  2,616.7   3,534.9             2,617.6     2,311.1    2,005.5       2,005.5
NIt Inmcm  afeer On-farn          3,389.2   6,738.6  8,837.4 10,959.7  10,055.1  10,955.1 10,955.1  10,939.1 10,343.9   9,425.7                  10,343.0 10,253.7 10,802.8 10,894.4  10,99.7 170,343.9  9,425.7    70,943.0    10,649.5  10,955.1   10,955.7
Nedreirons
Othee Cash Outfl.o-:
E6h006-bOn Deh bt seeirntl        236.2       203.7     204.2    205.3    205.3         205.3    209.3        205.3    205.3        205.3         205.3    209.72 20..3          206.3       709.3    209.3    203.3          20.3         20.3       203.3        203.3
Long-term teNt Oepntre/           --        996.6    906.0  1,231.1  17,71.1   7,017.4           924.9       840.8    764.4        694.9         631.7     374.3      922.1     474.6      437.9      392.3      56.6        324.2        294.7      267.9        243.6
Equity Ruy-b-a1k/                  --      1,027.7   1,027.1   1,027.7  1,827.1          7,827.1   7,027.71           1,027.1          1,8277.7  7,27.7       -         --        --          --        --         --          --           --          --
InnC,nl SNbsoripeion              500.0        --        -     - -             -_-_-                                     --          --            -- __                          - _-                            --           --           -- __  __
Bnildnp of Go.                    Ibseres/8  169.5  336.9  441.9    547.8     47 . 8    547.0     907.0       547.8     517.2       671.3         517.2     512.7   9540.1       544.7       547.8     517.2    471.3         517.2        532.95      47.8        547.8
Sobt-tal                          903.7    3,363.7   3,379.2  3,811.3  3,699.3   3,597.6  3,509.7    3,421.0  3,314.0   3,198.6                 3,181.3   1,292.3  1,267.5  1,224.6    1,184.6   1,114.0  1,033.2           1,046.7      1,032.5   1,021.0         996.7
Terror Popegone 6 Oehrr           2,000.0    2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0    2,000.0  2,000.0   2,000.0  2,000.0   2,000.0                  2,000.0  7,000.0  2,000.0   2,000.0   2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0             2,000.0      2,000.0    2,000.0      2,000.0
Etpentes leosred by Pamily/9
Not l::cree=ental Las9h
Inflo.  (Outflnw)                 483.5   1,374.9 3,430.2  5,143.8  5,255.8   9,357.5  3,450.0   5,534.1 5, ,29i.29    4,227.1    ,161,7   6,961.4  7,935.3   7,669.8   7,770.5  7,229.1  6,392.5    7,296.3                            7,617.0   7,934 1    7,958.4
4/  All figDres at reontane Deneber 1980 prima;  peme I  tere  rorranpoods en 1984, oh- a11 ponds at Maryt worlId hbroor op-rto- l.  Eteh pond op -raton
ewold hare 02.3 teddan gross or 11.4 teddan ret rotor
2/  Yr. 1: 600 kg/eddao tile  13Z wallet reph_lns, 200 inllet rap-to, 67% eilopir; Yr. 2: 750 kg/feddar, ont1 241 o. reph., 297 a. rap., 471 tilapop;
Yr. 3: 900 kg/feddan, with 27% =. reph., 26Y n. rap., 47Y tilapia; Yr. 4; 1.05 eon,/fdd-o, witl 271 a.  -.ph., 282 =. rap.
3/  As in A.ee  2, Table 3-17.
4/  TEol annual  -onts Err nperaaarn, mainteenrne, and equipsent replace=eet, dinided equally n-ang 214 pond opreator-.
I/ 6X itereest paymeet we all lnpon end operotlegliaieteracer roate
76  Lore repayment (LE 3.91 million total at  onnent 1900 prima) by Co. to Govere=ent ner 20 yearn,  -nrIldiog 2 yrea   initial gracr, with Intere t
at 67 p.r recoi.  Payments di .r.nnted an 792  npected a.n.al iEl saw.n to .spret.  them  in
weinmeat 1900 purier.-
/_  Equity bny-b-s  (LE 3.97  suItor toeal at eootant 7980 prices) from Gro-rnmens and PBDAC o-rr 10 years, with equaI ..ronet e-1h year.  Dedurti-n
fOr 102 ret    n quity e-a-tly nffeet allowanre too 70Z inlatire rarh year.  Each of the long-toe,- loan and Gorernment/PBDAC eq-ory en hr bI ghe I'ra
hack is equal tqhalf thel   ct of rqoipnt-,t and civil wor-k, in-luding worker hoosing and the rffluent popel.nr  (and plorloding plyoimnlrttirgrnrirs)._
7E  Dedoctionaeqool en SZ of rat ino=re after os-farm drdrrznsrr.                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Assuv  an  areage tinily ath two odr1t worbkig members.  The lamp tow fig-rr h-re includes additienal eI pene.n  (-noh a. cch-oling, transport, rtr.)
that may be inr-rred hy fa=ily participating in pmoj- t.



- 68 -
ANNEX 2
Table T-ll
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Input Requirements and Prices
Item                 Unit       Quantity/feddan       Financial Price       Border Price
(LE)                 (LE)
Fish Fry
Mullet cephalus           '000            2                     6.6                   5.6
Mullet capito             '000            3                     6.6                   5.6
Tilapia nilotica           ton            0.1/1               500.0                431.0
Fertilizers
Cow manure/'               ton            3                     8.00                  5.96
Chicken manure/3           ton            7                     7.00                  5.65
Chemicals!4
Quick lime                 ton            0.4                  10.0                   8.60
Derris roots               kg             3                     1.0                   0.86
Other
Ice                        ton         lkg/kg fish             10.63                 8.70
Labor                      day                                  1.00                  0.86
'1 For first year's operations only.
/2 Containing 1.0% of nitrogen fertilizer, and at a moisture of 25%.
/3 Containing 1.8% of nitrogen and 1.5% of phosphorus fertilizers, and at a
moisture of 15%.
/4 These materials can be substituted by others having a similar effect.



- 69 -
ANNEX 2
Table T-12
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Economic Costs and Benefits (basic run) /
Project Costs                    Without
Project          Project          Net Benefits
Year      Capital/2        0 and M   Inputs        Total   Benefits           Revenues           (Costs)
- -----------------------------------------(LE'000)-------------------------------------------
1981       1,341.8           60.3        28.5    1,430.6       14.3             100.1         (1,344.8)
1982       3,901.8          203.0        63.5    4,168.3       35.7             288.8         (3,915.2)
1983       2,700.8          360.6      217.8    3,279.2        64.3           1,024.5         (2,319.0)
1984       1,663.1          493.9      458.2    2,615.2        99.9           2,464.5            (249.6)
1985       1,157.6          595.6      457.0    2,210.2    142.7              3,395.4           1,042.5
1986           0.0          814.6      436.9    1,251.5    142.7              3,975.1           2,580.9
1987           0.0          814.6      439.1    1,253.7    142.7             4,325.3           2,928.9
1988         163.3          814.6      439.1      1,417.0    142.7           4,325.3           2,765.6
1989         252.9          814.6      439.1    1,506.6    142.7             4,325.3           2,676.0
1990         455.1          814.6      439.1      1,708.8    142.7           4,325.3           2,473.8
1991         345.6          814.6      439.1    1,599.3    142.7             4,325.3           2,583.3
1992         421.0          814.6      439.1    1,674.7    142.7             4,325.3           2,507.9
1993         122.7          814.6      439.1    1,376.4    142.7             4,325.3           2,806.2
1994         126.5          814.6      439.1    1,380.2    142.7             4,325.3           2,802.4
1995         300.1          814.6      439.1    1,553.8    142.7             4,325.3           2,628.8
1996         252.9          814.6      439.1      1,506.6    142.7           4,325.3           2,676.0
1997         455.1          814.6      439.1    1,708.8    142.7             4,325.3           2,473.8
1998         300.0          814.6      439.1    1,553.7    142.7             4,325.3           2,628.9
1999         270.9          814.6      439.1      1,524.6    142.7           4,325.3           2,658.0
2000        (999.6)/3       814.6      439.1        254.1    142.7            4,325.3           3,928.5
Economic Rate of Return = 20.6%
(Net Present Value of Project - $11.1 million at 10%)
B. Sensitivity Analysis
ITEM                                              ERR             CROSSOVER VALUE /4
- --  - -- - --    - --  - ---(  )
Basic Run                                              20.6
Maryut Fish Farm                                        17.9
Credit Scheme                                          38.1
Return on all investments /5                           16.1
Capital Costs                    +20%                  16.9                   + 77
O&M Costs                        +20%                  19.2                   +140
Input Costs                      +20%                  19.7                   +243
Project Revenues                 -20%                  13.4                   - 28
Project Production slips 1 year                        15.4
Yield Build-up in 6 years                               16.0
(instead of 3-4)
CCF for Fish Products = 1.00                           25.9
NOTE: All figures are in December 1980 prices; costs include physical contingencies.
/1     Excluding El Mex collection station, El Zaweya training program, extension, worker
housing, and the two studies.
/2     Incltuding equipment replacement costs.
/3     Including salvage value of equipment.
Percentage change in variable needed to bring ERR down to 10%.
/5     Including El Mex collection station, El Zaweya training program, extension, worker
housing, and the two studies.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Typical Cross-Sections and Water Levels at Maryut Farm Site
TYPICAL NORTH-SOUTH CROSS-SECTION
SALT LAKE                 MAIN DRAIN                        WINTERING POND                                              PRODUCTION PONDS                                45          MAIN CANAL          45    SALT LAKE
W|ta        W Level Lrest)              35                    1001
EL.- 1.35  W.ter Lewl                             W.t.r L..I                       Wale, L          Wte Leel                   alr LwI arabl .-I~
Wm,                                                                                                                                                        f F2 \E- - LI,',4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12   1  -"
1 I94} 2.
Wa   Le             ~~~35                                   e0
a4 era I  -  r                                          _ting  I
ILLUSTRATIVE REPRESENTATION OF WATER LEVELS
IN WEST NUBARIYA DRAIN AND MAIN PROJECT DRAIN
0
MAIN DRAIN                              WEST NUBARIYA DRAIN
Maai-ma Water LeseI
E L+ 2.08
Noarml Water Lael
._ _______________________ _   EL-+  1.18
Water Level (rest)                               4.88
EL,- 135            3.J8                                     EMERGENCY 4.88
Water~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nra Watar loprate
ELo.t8 N a d i s
Note; Not to -s1al. All di..ans..s in teatr.-                                                                                                                                                             WaFell almk- 21901



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Typical Layout and Cross-Section of Credit Scheme Fish Farms
10 FEDDAN FISH FARM MODEL                                                                                   30 FEDDAN FISH FARM MODEL
20.0                                330.0                                                             , 25.0                                    630.0
Wint-ng~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~itrn
Sopply                                                                                                                    PoPon  Wnd.in
Cpapnl/Drin                                                                                            Supply                   Pnd
A A                                                                               Canal/Drain    A      A
PRODUCTION POND                                  120.0                                                      PRODUCTION POND                                      200.0
Station
\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Level                                                                                       WaterLevel
L  15e       1 .                                                                                          20.0 2
SECTION A-A                                                                                                 SECTION A-A
Note: Not to stalo.
All dimensions in meters.
WoVrld Bank - 21902



- 72 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
A-1   USAID:  "A Report of the Fisheries Review Team to Egypt"; December 1976
A-2   USAID;  "Project Paper -- Aquaculture Development, Egypt"; August 1978
(Project 263-0064)
A-3   UNDP/FAO:  "Tranportation and Marketing of Fish from Lake Nasser"; 1971
(FI: SF/UAR 58, Technical Report 1)
A-4   FAO:    "Perspective Study of Agricultural Development for the Arab
Republic of Egypt -- The Fisheries Sector"; April 1973
(ESP/FIE/PS/EGY/73/10)
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B-1   FAO/World Bank CP:  "Draft Report of the Egypt Fish Farming Project
Identification Mission"; December 1977 (46177 EGY 13)
B-2   FAO/World Bank CP:  "Report of the Egypt Fish Farm Development
Project" (Vols. 1 and 2): March 1980 (16/80 EGY 16)
B-3   Land & Water Management:   "Nile Delta Fish Farm Project":
(Cambridge, U.K.)             Interim Reports (3 Vols.); April-June 1979
Special Report (2 Vols.); June 1979
Final Report    (4 Vols.); December 1979
"Maryut Fish Farming Project";
Outline Design & Cost Estimates
(1 Vol.); October 1980
C. Project Implementation Volume (Selected Working Papers)
C-1 through C-4:  Technical Papers
C-1   Summary of Technical Aspects (Maryut Fish Farm)
C-2   Detailed Engineering Aspects (Maryut Fish Farm)
C-3   Aquaculture Aspects
C-4   Training



- 73 -
Annex 3
Page 2
C-5 through C-li: General Background Data (tables)
C- 5  Fish Production in Egypt, 1975
C- 6  Fish Production in Egypt, 1976
C- 7  Fish Production in Egypt, 1977
C- 8  Fish Production in Egypt, 1978
C- 9  USAR - Expenses and Investments, 1976-1978
C-10  USAR - Staffing
C-li Proposed Public Authority for Fisheries Projects and Development --
Organization and Staffing
C-12 through C-21: Project Analysis (tables)
C-12  Output Prices used in Project Analysis
C-13  Financial Model for 10 feddan Fish Farm (new with land purchase)
C-14  Financial Model for 10 feddan Fish Farm (new with leased land)
C-15  Financial Model for 10 feddan Fish Farm (with land reclamation)
C-16  Financial Model for 30 feddan Fish Farm (improvement)
C-17  Financial Model for 30 feddan Fish Farm (new with land purchase)
C-18  Financial Model for 30 feddan Fish Farm (new with leased land)
C-19  Detailed Economic Costs anu Benefits (basic run)
C-20  Economic Analysis -- All Project Investments






300                                                  3,                                                   32
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
44  4A /,, 7 7A'  /I      I /, , 
FISH FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                 F A
PROJECT AREAS                                                                                                                     0   0' 20  0  40  0
KILOMETELRS
Q  X)8-    r~~~AFi; Fl 'SH/g// I
310  Sit  K  A oeflya                                                                                                                                 310~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OR  SI
ALEXANDRIA ,5Ih                                1tIZ 0|                                  2<                                          ,         (-,PO'T  SAID/z
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KF EL S EIKHU XX;4* 
31- ~     ~              -                        ,v.\                                    :,'h   a' ' 
Ott oslo has heat, pteps,edbo the ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ~       ~       ~       rOHAL              LMANUR
Woold BOo, atah aolattaly00
\        /     \       S~~~~~~z    F  H    F  RA    8;                                            / <J                            n       :
100 COOttaotaOOO \ltO, oaadaoE 00A                                                AKbir,                                                        AILIA
Th-ma J b.-n prea-d by h   lh /                         \                                                     I/ _ C~                          bbasc             I \ 
Wo/Id 6-k's-tffeculewo W                                                                                                                       a       tionaul Aqxutr  | \\
them ,apoo  to of l,ceh                                                                                                                             Cen tt. ..hed
Too dohofttoow ls otod had                                                                                    enh
houndaneashhaon ott th,o toep   ls.                                                            .   .  ....      
do 00' ttplo. 0n tOO parr of tho  t<gn                                                         SJ                                              
Wo,ld dok -od-s oh'haos, my/
X  f.bdtCr{a1eS17 ISRAEL  .- _-/\                                                             \\                i_     
CA. -               J JOR DAN,_                                             \_               % A-\/\            
i i '; ARAEA |~~~~~~SCF0IEME (GtOVERNORATES--CALS--  
ARAB REPUJBLIC   .    8  nE MAJOR EXISTING FISH FARMS                           SALT LAKFS             < t           C  A    I  R   O                                                 O     S EZ
j    OF EGYPT         . <                ROADS                               RIVERS
I                    -                    o0   MAIJOR TOWNS                 _      GOVERNORATE FOUNDARIES                                     _
S U D A N                     30                                                                                                            3 2_






MEDITER/?ANFAN  SEA                                      ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
IW E 1) I 7T 1  R  R  A  IV F  A  N         r/V   /tI       S [ A
- D,on, Owyrnil
FISH FARMING
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
20 t_ I<CS>-------\                                        \zMARYUT PROJECT SITE
General Schematic Layout
To Alexandria arid El Mex Collectior Satrinmn
Main farm center
- Main canal
Main drain
F-- Feeder/drain channels
|tAosriq.aes                          MAIN DiAlJ                            .                                                                                                 -I-M 4   \  /  - S=   Productiorl ponds (earth embankment)
; r o~~~~~~~~AI  FDRIN_ t-                                CAALl1KF M 4   ,;:{  _Pde
Area   ----                                                                                                                                                                       Wintering ponds
j                                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Syphons
~~~~~~~                                                                   0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pumping station
MV                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pond inlet/outlet
No I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VL                                                                                                          a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Water control structures
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Po ose /eff Tinolun pipelines
S/1 =L I                                                       SField centers
CA7NAL IN TAKE KM6.R                                                                      Main roads
_____  _____                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed road
MAIV CA      L    _ANA--L           -                                                                                                               Bridges
--2<       Contours in meters
-~- Twin oil pipelines
Settlements
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -Cr3E  Arery -l -1 - - -; -                       
->~~~~~~-
I      " E~~~~E _TRADEK                                                                                                                                                           4
_<\ oe Bur    Ab ebel o fl1 Maryut |                                                                                                                                                                I 0    .    2                        I3
______                                                                                    K~~~~~~~I LOttR
L dCceprance nf 30lchhmmd7rit9                                                                              20       28            3UI,,A I 32  _   3 2
20                                                                                        j-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    r1it S't  NPAO
20  AVARl                     S,IJ  I
-                                                      P~~~~~~~ ~~           ~ ~~~~~~~EPUBLI 1  FAA
noE  rneriya                                                                                                1
c                    h.,~~ri ra     b-s,pe,erp-rdby ihe World a-k, sraff-eon-reY t-or -oe cnnorn.nnroIa242
r                                 t.~~fl, raeo ffrreoii rd-, ri r ari-had rTheomnlnr od.ii n
_ _    _     _      _     _      _      _     _      _      _     _      _      _     _      _     _      _      _    _..                                                                              __               j  oy~'   'y    .....
brnndanessirnrnnonihrsrrraprronoi,rrqoiyonrinporrofli,eWorhieonnar,n,rn                                                          -~~~~~~~2~                 2'           3



