Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6874-MAG
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TO THE
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
(Report No. P-6874-MAG)
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR17.2 MILLION (USS23.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
May 8, 1997



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                             Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$1.00                                   FMG 4,982.84 (4/30/97)
MALAGASY FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 3 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CIP             Independent Privatization Commission
CRC             Competitiveness Review Committee
EPZ             Export Processing Zone
ESAF             Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESN             Economic Strategy Note
FASP            Private Sector Support FuLid
FAC             French Fonds cdAide et ce Cooperation
FDI             Foreign Direct Investment
FID             Fonds d'lntervention pour le Developpement
ILO             Industrial Labour Organization
ITPAC           Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit
MB              Ministry of Decentralization and Budget
MDSPP           Ministry of Private Sector Development and Privatization
MF              Ministry of Finanice and Econiomy
MMF             Match-Makinig Fund
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
OED             (World Bank) Operations Evaluation Department
PFP             Policy Frameework Paper
PHRD            Policy and Human Resources Development
PSA             Private Sector Assessment
PSRDF           Privatization Social and Regional Development Fund
PSAC            Public Sector Adjustment Credit
PSSF            Private Sector Seminars Fund
PTF             Privatization Trust Fund
PVO             Private Voluntary Organization
SME             Small and Medium Enterprise
STA             Technical Secretariat for Adjustment
UNIDO           United Nations Industrial Development Organization
VAT             Value Added Tax
Vice President:    Mr. Callisto Madavo
Country Director:   Mr. Michael Sarris
Technical Manager: Mr. Thomas Allen
Task Team Leader:  Mr. Paul Ballard



Madagascar. Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project                    i
MADAGASCAR
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION A: PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                                             I
I.   Project Design                                                                        I
II.   Description of project components                                                    2
Economic Policy Reform Program                                                       2
Market Liberalization and Private Sector Incentives Reforms                        2
Public Enterprise Divestiture Program                                              3
Tax administration reform                                                          6
Private Sector Capacity Building Program                                             9
Private Sector Fund (PSF)                                                          10
Improved Government/Private Sector Dialogue - Competitiveness Review Committee (CRC)  13
Private Sector Seminars Program                                                     14
FDI Match-Making Scheme                                                             15
III.  Project Benefits and Risks                                                          16
SECTION B: PROJECT COSTS AND ADMINISTRATION                                              18
1.   Project Costs and Financing                                                          17
II.   Procurement                                                                         18
III.  Disbursement                                                                        20
IV.  Accounting and Auditing                                                              21
SECTION C: IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING                                                 22
I.   Project Organization and Management                                                  22
11.  Implementation Schedule                                                              22
IT.  Key Indicators of Project Performance                                                22
IV.  Monitoring and Progress Reporting                                                    23
V.   Supervision                                                                          24
TABLES
Table 1: Estimated Project Cost                                                           18
Table 2: Project Financing Plan                                                           19
Table 3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements                                     19
Table 4: Estimated IDA Disbursements                                                      21
Table 5: Disbursements of IDA Credit                                                      22
ATTACHMENTS
Attachment 1:    Detailed Project Costs by Subcomponent + Financing Plan
Attachment 2      Logical Frameworks - Tax Reform and Investment Incentive Component
Privatization Program Component
Business Services and Dialogue Support Components
Attachment 3:    Table of Key activities, Evaluation Criteria, Performance Indicators and
Implementation Timetable
Attachment 4:    Speeding Up Export Diversification Through Matchmaking Between
Foreign and Local Firms






Madagascar. Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project
SECTION A: PROJECT DESCRIPTION
I. PROJECT DESIGN
1.    The overall aim of the Project is to support accelerated export-led growth in Madagascar, by
increasing private investment and productivity through reforms in the policy and business environment,
upgrading of private firms' capabilities and global market knowledge and involvement, and attracting
foreign direct investment (FDI).
2.    Due to almost two decades of public-sector led economic policies in the 1970s and 1980s,
Madagascar still needs to accomplish the transition to a modern market economy. Spurred by the
economic liberalization measures adopted in 1987-91, a small but dynamic export-oriented private sector
still comprising a "new breed" of entrepreneurs has emerged. Alongside this, the public sector and a
large public enterprise sector dominate many major economic activities. Meanwhile, market institutions,
including the rule of law, and a market culture based upon competition and transparency have yet to be
firmly established. Market- based business services responding to private firms' needs are extremely
limited. As a large island set apart from the African and Asian continents, Madagascar has remained for
a long time closed in upon itself, and the Malagasy private sector has little experience or knowledge of
world markets. Meanwhile, the Bank's operational experience has been that projects have been slowly
and poorly implemented, particularly where active upfront involvement by beneficiaries in project design
and preparation have been lacking.
3.    The Project has been designed and prepared taking the above factors into account, and learning
from past experiences in Madagascar and elsewhere: (a) considerable attention has been given to strong
and early preparation of each project component; (b) transparent and competitive market-based
approaches have been adopted not only for the policy reforms to be undertaken, but also for key
processes of project preparation and implementation - such as recruitment of key project personnel and
consultants; (c) emphasis has been given to client-led project preparation for each project component,
with active involvement of private sector stakeholders as well as government officials; (d) private sector
involvement has been based upon broad-based representation of the range of businesses by activity, size
and region.
4.    The philosophy underlying project design is based upon market principles and institutions: (1)
the privatization program is designed to be implemented in a transparent and competitive market-based
manner to ensure efficiency and sustainability in terms of popular support; (2) the market liberalization
and private sector incentives and tax administration reforms are aimed at removing distortions and
creating a level playing field for private investors, domestic and foreign, while recogniizing local
sensitivities and the need to ensure strong local participation; (3) the private sector capacity-building
components are all based upon catalytic and temporary programs to strengthen markets through private
firms' capabilities and market institutions, avoiding creation of new and permanent bureaucracies,
while opening up networks of market-based contacts between Malagasy private firms and foreign private
partners in world markets.
5.    The Project will contribute to the design and implementation of major reforms outlined in the
Bank's country assistance strategy (CAS) - discussed by the Board in February 1997, and supported by
the IMF ESAF - approved in November 1996. However, its contribution is principally technical rather
than overtly policy-based. Alongside the immediate need to implement policy reforms under the CAS
and the ESAF, at least equal priority is being given to building long-term capabilities (people,



2                   Madagascar. Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project
institutions, infrastructure) and to supporting a debate on Madagascar's options for achieving accelerated
growth with equity in the longer run.
6.    The Government and the private sector's commitment to this approach are indicated by the
upfront actions already taken before project appraisal and Board presentation. Nevertheless, the Project
entails significant risks. It will require sustained political commitment to the Project objectives. Given
the innovative approaches both for the Bank and the Borrower, it will call for an intensive supervision
effort by Bank staff especially during the first year.
II. DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
7.    The Project will support the design and implementation of two programs: economic policy
reforms and private sector capacity building.
Economic Policy Reform Program
Market Liberalization and Private Sector Incentives Reforms
8.    Removing impediments in the business environment to expanded and more efficient private
investment, including FDI, is key to generating a strong supply response as part of the Government's
adjustment program. Following the initial measures undertaken in 1996, supported by the SAC, over
1997-99, further reforms will be designed and adopted with technical support funded by the Project.
This will take the form of local and international expert assistance recruited by the Competitiveness
Review Committee (CRC), Technical Secretariat for Adjustment (STA), or the concerned Government
agency.
9.     The principal reform measures to be designed and adopted, in accordance with the 1996-98
Policy Framework Paper (PFP), prospectively identified for support are: (a) simplification of company
registration procedures; (b) removal of state and public enterprise monopolies and establishment of pro-
competitive regulatory frameworks, where needed, in major economic activities, notably sugar, wheat
flour, cotton ginning and marketing, raw meat, oil seeds, coastal shipping, ports, airports, water supply,
insurance; (c) mining sector liberalization, and mining code reform to encourage expanded private
investment and exports in a potentially major sector of the economy; (d) conclusion of double taxation
avoidance treaties with at least 20 FDI-source countries to encourage expanded foreign private
investment; (e) simplification and strengthening of "good" regulations (e.g., in forestry and fishing) to
support expanded, environmentally sound private investment and exports.
10.   A key focus of the incentives reforms will be measures to facilitate entry of foreign private
investors into the Malagasy market, to greatly expand the flows of FDI. These could include inter alia
further efforts - building upon the August 1996 land law reform - granting long-term leasehold access to
foreign investors - to improve foreign investor landholding rights. The Project would support analytical
studies and stakeholder workshops and seminars to facilitate a wider debate and fuller public
understanding of the issues involved.
11.   Measures designed under the Project would be presented to Cabinet, and where necessary to the
National Assembly, for approval.



Madagascar: Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project                   3
Public Enterprise Divestiture Program
12.    The Project will support preparation, implementation and performance monitoring of the
Government's renewed privatization program, by funding in part the preparation and execution of
divestiture transactions for individual Public Enterprises (PEs), design and adoption of pro-competitive
sector regulatory frameworks and demonopolization measures as needed, as well as the creation and
operation of key elements of the overall regulatory and institutional framework for privatization. The
latter are defined in the August 1996 Privatization Law. The framework takes account of significant
legal, regulatory and institutional problems encountered during the 1988-93 privatization program. It is
designed to ensure transparency and efficiency in preparation and execution of transactions, equity of
treatment between foreign and local investors, broad participation of local investors, small savers and the
general public, and widespread and effective public awareness of the aims, instruments, process and
progress of the program.
13.    Privatization Framework. Key features of the framework under the Privatization Law are: (a)
creation of a high-level Privatization Committee -comprising six members, two from the private sector -
and reporting directly to the Prime Minister and the Cabinet - responsible for oversight and direction of
the privatization program; (b) a small, lean Technical Secretariat to the Committee, to coordinate and
supervise implementation; (c) delegation of preparation and execution of divestiture transactions to
openly and competitively selected private investment advisers (consulting firms and investment banks);
(d) an arbitration commission to provide speedy and effective legal recourse for dispute resolution; (e) a
privatization trust fund to warehouse shares in privatized PEs for sale in blocks over time to local
investors; (f) a privatization social and regional development fund, as a proxy for a voucher scheme, to
enable broader popular participation in the divestiture program. A major public awareness campaign
will be mounted initially and throughout the program's implementation. At Credit negotiations, it was
agreed that a public enterprise transfer tracking system (PETTS) will be created by June 1997 in the
Treasury in the Ministry of Decentralization and Budget to monitor progress in controlling and reducing
budget transfers to PEs.
14.    Early design and establishment of the above elements of the program have been supported by the
project through funding of local and international consultants under the Project Preparation Facilities
(PPFs). Following National Assembly approval and promulgation of the Privatization Law in August
1996, the Government's plan is that the key elements of the privatization framework will be legally
established by May 1997. This should permit the first transactions to be undertaken starting in the
second half of 1997.
15.    Process and Phasing of Divestitures.  Under the privatization program, preparation of
divestitures will be delegated (contracted out) separately (a) to independent private consultants for sector
regulatory design, enterprise audit and legal work, and (b) to private investment advisers for preparation
and execution of divestiture transactions. Liquidations would be handled separately from privatizations,
given the different skills involved and anticipated use of mainly local expertise. For privatizations, large
PEs would be handled by individually recruited investment advisers and consultants. Meanwhile, to
achieve cost saving, smaller and medium sized PEs would be handled in batches (of about 10 enterprises)
by individual investment advisers. Of 120 remaining commercial and industrial PEs, it is anticipated that
20 large ones would be handled individually for privatization and 80 handled in batches, while 20
expected liquidations would be handled in batches by local liquidators. While the goal is to complete
divestiture of all 120 PEs within 5-6 years, most contracts for handling divestitures would be let within
the first 25-30 months to allow some flexibility in timing completion of individual transactions in light of
market conditions.



4                   Madagascar: Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project
16.   The remaining 120 PEs will be slated for divestiture in three phases of about 18-24 months each
over 1997-2002. A "long list" of PEs will be drawn up and approved by the Cabinet for each phase. At
least 10 large PEs would be included in Phases I and II. At Credit negotiations, it was agreed that the
Phase I list will include the following large PEs: Air Madagascar (airline); RNCFM (railways);
SECREN (shipbuilding and repair); SIRAMA (sugar production); SOLIMA (petroleum marketing and
distribution); ADEMA (airports management); HASYMA (cotton ginning and marketing); SINPA,
SOMACODIS and COROI (trading companies); and CMN (coastal shipping). In addition, about 35
smaller PEs would be included, including about five for possible liquidation.
17.    Selection of PEs for divestiture in Phase I is based upon the following objective criteria: (a)
maximizing private investment, output, productivity gains, and reduction in fiscal drain; (b) PEs in
sectors slated for early market liberalization under Government's economic reform program as
confirmed in the PFP; (c) lead-time needed to prepare and execute divestiture, especially for larger PEs;
(d) mobilizing sales revenues to finance subsequent phases of the divestiture program; and (e) creating a
positive market image of Madagascar's divestiture program vis-a-vis local and foreign private investors,
through sale of major PEs in relatively problem-free fashion.
18.   As agreed in the 1996-98 PFP, PEs representing 15% of the total PE sector in terms of aggregate
sales and employment would be divested in 1997, 20% in each of 1998-99, 25% in 2000, and 20% in
2001.
19.   Funding Divestiture Transactions and Use of Proceeds.  Proceeds from  divestiture
transactions would be allocated, in descending order or priority, to: (a) defraying divestiture transaction
costs; (b) allocation to servicing public debt; (c) funding the (reimbursable) trust fund for the
Privatization Social and Regional Development Fund (see below). The Project would provide funding
especially for preparation and execution of Phase I divestiture transactions (i.e., before any proceeds
have been realized) and for major transactions where costs could be lumpy and sizable. As far as
possible, however, transaction expenses would be met out of proceeds of earlier divestitures. For this
purpose, a revolving fund would be established lodged with the Treasury, in accordance with the
Privatization Law.
20.   Project Support. The Project would support the main elements of the privatization program and
the institutional framework:
Privatization Committee.  The project will support the setting up and operation of the
Privatization Committee which had received from the Government the mandate to implement the
privatization program. At Credit negotiations, the Government indicated that the composition of
the Committee would be restructured and reinforced by including additional qualified private
sector representatives. The project will also finance the setting up and the operation over a period
of five years of the Technical Secretariat which, under the authority of the Committee, will plan,
arrange, coordinate and supervise the work of the independent auditors, lawyers, economists and
financial advisors who will be hired to execute the individual divestiture transactions and, where
necessary, to prepare the individual sector reforms.
Preparation of Divestiture Transactions. The remuneration of the financial advisors funded in
part out of the IDA credit will in part be based on the proceeds from the sale of the shares in the
enterprises privatized. The project will finance part of the upfront audit, consulting and legal
costs of the independent advisors to the extent that they cannot be recouped from the proceeds of
the privatizations.



Madagascar. Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project             5
21.   Privatization Trust Fund (PTF). The project will finance the setting up of a share warehousing
scheme through the creation of a privately managed trust fund which will hold minority shares in the
privatized PEs pending their sale to company personnel, the Malagasy public and Malagasy enterprises
and institutional investors. Statutes establishing the PTF were approved by the Cabinet in September
1996, with technical modifications adopted in May 1997. Based upon technical preparation funded out
of the PPF, the PTF is expected to be established and to begin operations by end 1997 in time for the first
PE divestiture transactions. The PTF will be free to determine the PEs whose shares it will purchase
based upon a market analysis of their potential viability and market interest. The PTF will be permitted
to purchase up to 49 percent of a given PE's shares, but in practice will limit its holdings to around 30
percent, and will not exercise enterprise management responsibilities. The management of the fund will
be delegated to a private manager selected after competitive bidding who will receive the mandate from
the Government to manage the fund and to liquidate it over a period of five-seven years through sales to
the authorized buyers mentioned above in accordance with a management contract. The objectives as set
forth in the management contract will be to: (a) preserve and enhance the value of the shares held, (b)
maximize the capital gain on the sale of the shares sold to enterprises and institutional investors; and (c)
liquidate the share portfolio in accordance with a set time plan. The Project will finance the up-front
costs of setting up the privatization trust fund and the initial fixed part of the management fees to be paid
to the private manager of the fund.
22.   Privatization Social and Regional Development Fund (PSRDF). Broad public participation in
privatization programs is desirable to lend transparency and ensure popular support. However, in
practice, in African economies, voucher schemes along East European lines are virtually impossible to
undertake administratively. The aim of the PSRDF is to enable wide, mass involvement - albeit
indirectly - in the privatization program for less privileged groups in society, notably the rural and urban
poor, retrenched PE employees, and unemployed graduates. The PSRDF will be funded with a (modest)
share of net PE privatization proceeds, and will provide limited amounts of credit, training and outreach
assistance to support grass-roots level self-employment projects, channeled through effective NGO-
based and private schemes (such as AGETIPA, FID, etc.). Statutes establishing the PSRDF were
approved by the Cabinet in September 1996, with technical modifications adopted in May 1997. A
portion of the proceeds from the sale of the shares to private shareholders will be transferred to a fund to
be managed and supervised by the management and the board of directors of the FID (Fonds
d'intervention pour le Developpement), a private non-profit association created with the support of IDA
(under the Food Security & Nutrition II Project) in 1993 to finance basic infrastructure and employment-
generating projects at the local community level.  To avoid unnecessary overhead, no separate
management team will be set up to manage the privatization social fund. However, it will have complete
financial autonomy from the FID to ensure transparency and facilitate the monitoring of project
implementation. The objective of the PSRDF is to ensure that all constituencies of the Malagasy
population may receive tangible benefits from the divestiture of PEs. The proposed project will finance
the costs of setting up and initial operation of the PSRDF.
23.   Arbitration Commission. The objective of the Arbitration Commission is to facilitate a faster,
more cost effective and pragmatic resolution than under the (still weak) formal judiciary system of legal
disputes arising from the implementation of the privatization program. The project would finance the
cost of setting up the commission.
24.   Public Awareness Campaign. The Project will finance a public awareness campaign which
will have as objectives to: (a) ensure public support by making Malagasy stakeholders aware of the need
and advantages of the program privatization; (b) ensure transparency of the program through wide
dissemination of the rules; (c) both abroad and within the country, announce and explain the PE



6                   Madagascar: Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project
Divestiture Program in context of the structural changes necessary to improve the economic and business
environment and enhance the economic competitiveness of the country. The project will finance
technical assistance to plan, prepare, implement and monitor the results of the public awareness
campaign. The public awareness campaign will be contracted out as a whole or in segments to specialist
communications consultants.
25.    Public Enterprise Transfer Tracking System (PETTS). The Ministry of Decentralization and
Budget (MB) will establish a data system for tracking fiscal transfers to PEs (both direct in terms of
budget support, and indirect in terms of taxes and debt service foregone) to be operated by the public
enterprise monitoring unit in the Treasury. The PETTS will be the key means of monitoring progress of
the PE divestiture program against a major goal of reducing and eliminating fiscal drain. It is needed
because until now MB has had no integrated overall system for monitoring and controlling fiscal
transfers to and from PEs in their various forms. It was agreed at Credit negotiations that the PETTS will
be set up by end June 1997.
26.    PE Employee Retraining Fund. In order to address work force changes, including potential
layoffs that may occur during implementation of the PE divestiture program, a redeployment and
retraining scheme is being prepared and will be adopted by the Government early on. Initial estimates are
that, in Phase I of the divestiture program, about 7,000 out of a total work force of 30,000 in the
concerned PEs could be retrenched and could need retraining assistance. The Retraining Fund would
provide, where needed, redeployment and training assistance to enable retrenched PE employees to make
the transition to new jobs. It will be based upon the following principles: (a) it will focus upon
enterprise-specific needs rather than a generalized approach; (b) through retraining for redeployment, it
will complement, as needed, legally due government-funded severance pay to laid-off workers; (c) it will
aim at sustained increases in worker productivity and household incomes; (d) it will give priority to
regions and sectors where immediate re-employment possibilities are limited; (e) it will work largely
through existing programs and institutional mechanisms, including several successful PVOlNGO-based
schemes as well as private placement services. Overall program coordination and management will be
done by a small autonomous redeployment and retraining unit (RRU) with a lean and well qualified staff
reporting to the MDSPP. The RRU will coordinate initial retraining activities, while preparing a broader
redeployment program for the medium-term. The institutional and operating arrangements for the
Retraining Fund are expected to be in place by September 1997.
Tax administration reform
27.    Madagascar's poor and declining tax performance is due to several factors: (a) excessive
revenue dependence upon external trade taxes, resulting in revenue losses as they have been reduced and
not replaced by effective non-protective indirect taxes; (b) a culture of pervasive ad hoc, discretionary
exemptions since 1990 eroding taxpayer compliance; (c) a structurally limited tax base due to the high
level of subsistence activities in the economy and a large non-performing (thus non-taxpaying) public
enterprise sector; (d) an antiquated and neglected system of tax and customs administration with
inadequate and declining staffing, material resources, and organization; (e) weak and outdated systems
for most major taxes, including corporate, property, as well as indirect taxation. The poorly conceived
indirect tax reforms of 1993, coupled with new ad hoc exemptions, further weakened tax administration
and tax payer compliance. While comprehensive tax reform is thus needed, it cannot be undertaken all at
once, given generally limited implementation capacity and the fundamental weaknesses in tax
administration, which will further deteriorate greatly over the next few years if not addressed now.



Madagascar. Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project                   7
28.    The strategy adopted by the Government, whose implementation will be supported by the
Project, is to focus selectively on addressing key weaknesses in the tax system, giving priority to
overhauling tax administration. The main problems to be addressed are:
*   Value Added Tax (VAT): Introduced in 1994, the VAT comprises a long list of exemptions
iilnerited from the previous transaction tax and sales tax systems, on items normally subject
to tax (notably services). The zero rate regime, which should be applied only to exports, is
used to grant ad hoc exemptions. No turnover threshold exists below which the VAT is
simplified for small entrepreneurs by applying a flat tax, while the tax administrationl, whichi
has a weak computerized information system, is unable to track and inspect all firms subject
to VAT.
*   Weaknesses of the fiscal administration: Tax administration organization is antiquated,
cumbersome and complex, and is a key reason for poor tax collection. It is based on
principles dating from before Independence: two separate directorates are responsible for
revenue collection (Tax Directorate) and tax payer control (Public Accounting Directorate)
creating many overlaps. Furthermore, the Tax Directorate is broken-down into three UllitS --
direct taxes; indirect taxes and registration taxes -- with little coordination between them.
Coordination with customs is weak, and no single taxpayer identification number system
exists. Staffing levels are inadequate, and will decline much further in the next four years
wheni one third of the tax (and customs) inspectors will retire.
X   Weaknesses of the customs administration: The customs administration does not effectively
monitor and check imports (notably in terms of value of goods) and its inspection of free-
zone regime imports is inadequate. The customs information system installed is under-
utilized compared with its capabilities. Finally, procedures are cumbersome and comprise
too many, often ineffective, controls.
The Project component objectives are, in the first phase (18-24 months): (a) VAT system modernizationi:
(b) rehabilitation of tax administration; and (c) strengthening of the customs administration, and in the
second phase: (d) simplification and improvements in taxation of small firms; and (e) selected
improvements in corporate taxation.
29.    Modernization of the VAT system. The system is rather simple being based upon a single (20
per cent) rate. To improve the efficiency of the tax administration, and widen the base upon whichi the
VAT is applied, a threshold above which all enterprises will be subjected to VAT, regardless of their
sectors of intervention and of their activities, needs to be introduced, and the list of goods zero-rated or
exempted needs to be substantially curtailed. Collection needs to be improved substantially throughi
better organization (especially in monitoring and inspecting large firms), increased taxpayer education
and outreach, and simplification of procedures. A pilot unit dealing only with larger enterprise taxpayers
will be created, and a single identification number system will be introduced. Finally, training will be
provided to the tax and customs administrations and enterprises will be informed of the new rules. The
rate level could theni be reviewed - and perhaps slightly lowered - if improved collections on a broader
base can be achieved.
30.    Rehabilitation of the fiscal administration.  This rehabilitation will be conducted in two
phases. Duriiig the first phase --1996/97-- a pilot unit ("centre fiscal pilote des entreprises", CFPE) will
be created in Antananarivo, responsible for tax assessment of and revenue collection from the 60 largest
enterprises, which account for 55 percent of the corporate tax and 45 percent of the VAT. The CFPE
will use modern collection procedures supported by a computerized information system and will aim at



8                    Madagascar. Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project
tax administration performance improvement and simplification of declaration forms. It is expected that
its creation will dramatically improve the overall revenue collection performance of the tax
administration.
31.    During the second phase --1998/99-- the other departments of the Tax Directorate will be
progressively reorganized. First, other CFPEs will be created, starting with the main provincial centers.
Second, three or four Tax Centers will be created in Antanainarivo to set up a mode of taxation and a
fiscal administration adapted to small taxpayers and entrepreneurs which are not dealt with by CFPEs.
To complete the reform, other Tax Centers will be created around the country.
32.   In parallel with the implementation of these two phases, the following actions will be taken:
*   the tax administration will be effectively computerized, starting with the CFPE;
*   an auditing program will be designed by the Tax Directorate with specific targets assigned
to each division;
*   the two auditing squads will be merged giving priority to monitoring enterprises benefiting
from tax exemptions (under the Investment Code and EPZ regimes);
*   a major tax and customs inspector recruitment program will be uindertaken, to strengtheni the
tax service through replacement of retiring officers with well-educated new recruits;
*   a training program will be designed, which will comprise the initial training for newly
recruited staff as well as the skill upgrading of the existing staff.
33.    Customs Administration Strengthening. The following measures will be taken to strengtlhen
the customs administration:
*   Up-date of the customs software in the two main customs offices (Antananarivo and
Toamasina) with implementation of all the available features. Once this is in place, the
computerization will be progressively extended to the other main offices.
*   Creation of a new office in Antananarivo to more effectively monitor all the free-zone
enterprise operations.
*   Setting-up of a new organization both at the national and regional levels to ensure a good
monitoring of operations.
*   Recruitment of new staff and, in coordination with the tax administration, tralining of the
customs staff aimnig at reinforcing inter-departmental collaboration.
34.    Project Implementation. To facilitate component implementation, a project group composed of
two teams - a tax team and a customs team - was created in September 1996 within the General
Directorate of Fiscal Resources (DGRF). The core of the CFPE staff is also part of the tax team which
also comprises specialists in information systems and in VAT systems, initially assisted for a year by an
internationally recruited tax administration expert. The customs team (to be set up later in 1997) will be
composed of three high-level staff from the customs administration, and a specialist in the customs
information system software, initially assisted for a year by an internationally recruited customs expert.
35.    The tax team was created in September 1996, supported by an internationally recruited tax
administrationi specialist seconded by the IMF. The team drew up and implemented over October 1996-
March 1997 an initial program to revamp tax administration and design the VAT reform along the lines



Madagascar. Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project                   9
outlined in paras. 28-31 above. Initial urgent equipment and computerization needs were financed out of
the PPF to help ensure effective early start-up of the tax reform program. Major changes in the tax
administration were adopted in the 1997 Budget Law, including the introduction of a 3-5% advance
payment of income taxes levied on importers against the cost of imported goods. The CFPE in
Antananarivo was established and all domestic tax collection from  larger firms above a given VAT
threshold transferred to it from  March 1997. The CFPE has adopted streamlined and simplified
collection procedures for taxpayers working with it. Initial indications are that revenue collection
performance has significantly improved as a result. Meanwhile, the Government has prepared the
revamped VAT system which will be adopted as part of a revised budget law to be presented to the
National Assembly for approval before August 1997. During Credit negotiations, it was agreed that: (a)
an improved system of incentives bonuses linked to tax collections will be adopted for staff of the CFPE
as well as of the tax and customs departments as part of the revised budget law for 1997; and (b)
operating budgets adequate to achieve improved revenue collection targets would be allocated to the
CFPE and the tax and customs departments in 1997-2002.
36.    The Project will finance: (a) equipment, including computers and computer software, for both
Tax and Customs Departments; (b) services of internationally recruited long-term tax administration and
customs experts; (c) short-term specialist consultanits to assist in specific aspects of the program,
including VAT and informations systems design; and (d) training for tax and customs officials.
Private Sector Capacity Building Program
37.    Madagascar's formal private sector remains limited in scope and size, with monopolies or
oligopolies in many sectors, and is highly concentrated regionally (in and around the capital
Antananarivo). Until recently, most of the formal indigenous private sector consisted of firms involved
in import-substitution and traditional trade. With the contraction of the domestic market and the decline
in volume and prices of the traditional exports (vanilla, cloves, coffee) and their poor long-term outlook,
these firms are faced with the need to fundamentally restructure themselves. Due to decades of being
isolated from world markets and sources of foreign investment, much of Madagascar's private sector
conitinues to be handicapped by inadequate market knowledge, technological information and skills, as
well as management and internal capacity constraints.
38.    Recent Bank studies  measure the effect that this type of isolation has on the technical and
management capabilities of firms. Using firm-level data collected in Ghana, Kenya and Zimbabwe over
a three-year period, one study finds that althiough each of these economies is undergoing extensive
structural reform programs, the overall technological capabilities and firm-level efficiencies remain low
in these countries relative to the rest of the world. Both studies identify the weak or non-existent
connections with such international sources of technology transfer as techniical experts, buyers and
suppliers as a major contributing factor and conclude that a broad range of individual and collective
expert support services is required to accelerate the supply response to structural reforms. They also
illustrate how foreign direct investors can contribute to a rapid improvement in technological capabilities
through joint venture and sub-contracting arrangements with local partners.
39.    Demand Study. In a March 1996 demand study, 298 companies throughout Madagascar were
surveyed on their potential demand for expert support services. Covering all major industrial sectors as
I World Bank Technical Paper Number 288: 'Technological Capabilities and Learning in African Enterprises'. Biggs. Shalh.
Srivastava, Dec. 1995; and Yung Whee Rhee and Therese Belot, Export Catalysts in Low-income Countries: A Review of
Eleven Success Stories, World Bank Discussion Papers # 72, T he World Bank, 1990.



10                   Madagascar. Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project
well as tourism, transport and artisanry, these companies range in size from  small artisans to
manufacturers employing close to 1000 people. Of these companies, 180 are located in the capital city
region, with the other 109 in I I other regions of the country. The vast majority of these firms expressed
an unmet need for some form of expert assistance; together they formulated a total of 328 specific needs
for support services including firm-level technical assistance in marketing, product development and
manufacturing management; feasibility and market studies; on-site training of manufacturing and
maintenance personnel; computer training and information sessions on new technologies and quality
norms and standards.
40.    More than two thirds of the firms surveyed expressed a willingness to contribute to the costs of
the services if this would give them access to higih quality expertise. Only a small portion of the firms
had received expert assistance so far, most firms acknowledging that a perceived lack of locally available
expertise had kept them from seeking outside assistance.
41.    The same study assessed the capacity of local consulting firms to provide support services. A
total of 95 firms and their portfolios were surveyed and the study found that between 50 and 70 percent
of their market traditionally has been financed by donors. The study found that local capacity was
available in general mianagement related fields but practically absent in more technically oriented areas.
Siginificantly, only 4 percent of the assignments analyzed had been performed by a local-foreign
partnership. These results confirm the findings of several previous studies (including the 1988 ILO labor
skills assessment, and the 1995 Bank Private Sector Assessment) indicating a wide range of technical
and business skills shortages, as well as shortages of experienced technicians and skilled workers in
many industrial and service fields, including tourism, mininig, agri-business, and information services.
Private Sector Fund (PSF)
42.    The project would provide partial funding (on a limited time, matchinlg grant basis) for a broad
range of expert support services to Malagasy small and medium  firms and business associations to
encourage productivity improvements. The PSF would not directly provide technical services to the
private sector but would act as a catalyst and intermediary between firms and associations of the private
sector that need assistance, and local and international suppliers of business services. It will finance
improved access to private support services (management, marketing, information and technical experts
and consulting firms) provided wherever possible by local providers to strengthen the local market for
such services, but also importantly by international private providers where needed.
43.    The PSF would also fund (on a similar basis) development of information, advisory and support
services by well-established private sector associations and groups of firms to their members.
44.    This component would be managed by a private, non-profit company ("association privee a but
non-lucratif'). Its general manager has been recruited from the private sector through an international
and competitive process. A Malagasy national, he has spent the last three years in the international
financial sector with IFC's APDF in Ghana, before which he managed the venture capital company in
Madagascar - Fiaro.
45.    The PSF operations are governed by a detailed procedures manual. This manual specifies the
following eligibility criteria for PSF's assistance. Eligible for support by the FASP would be wholly
private sector owned enterprises, groups of enterprises and business associations. To be eligible for
matching grant finanicing, the business or business association would have to specify how the proposed
support service would improve its productivity or that of its membership. Specific support services that



Madagascar. Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project              11
would be eligible for matching grant financing would include expert assistance and training programs in
product development and quality improvement, installation of new technology and manufacturing
methods, market research and prospecting trips abroad, visits by strategic buyers to Madagascar, and
creation of business networks and joint ventures. Specifically excluded from FASP support would be the
financing of equipment and regular operating expenses.
46.    The procedures manual will include transparent and competitive procedures for hiring
consultants and supervising and evaluating the services that they would provide. It will also specify the
cost sharing formula that will be applied. This formula will be designed to (a) not exclude small
enterprises from the support of PSF; and (b) ensure that entrepreneurs "graduate" over time and accept to
bear the cost of expert services that they need. It will be designed along the following lines: The amount
of the matching grant would be calculated based on the total cumulative cost of all the support services
received by a single beneficiary firm and partially subsidized by FASP during the life of the project,
according to the following formula:
Total Cumulative Cost              Beneficiary                 % Matching
of Support Services (US$)          Contribution                Grant
0      -             6,500           20%                          80%
6,501         -      20,000          35%                         65%
20,001        -      50,000          50%                         50%
Over 50,000                          70%                         30%
47.    The total amount of matching grants per beneficiary firm would be capped at US$50,000. This
formula would allow smaller firms to gain access to high quality support services while at the same time
providing a strong incentive for larger firms, whose needs for expert support are likely to be more
substantial, to participate.
48.    Experience with matching grant schemes elsewhere (Kenya, Mauritius, India) indicates that the
average grant size will remain well below the maximum amount and is likely to amount to approximately
US$15,000 per firm over the 3-year life of the project.
49.    The PSF will establish and maintain a roster of approved technical experts, consultants and
consulting firms both domestic and foreign. This roster will be classified by category of service and
updated regularly to include new consultants or exclude unsatisfactory ones. To be eligible for PSF
support, beneficiaries will select or invite consultants to bid on the basis of a short list generally but not
exclusively drawn from this roster. The PSF will conduct an extensive public awareness campaign
nationwide to inform the business community of its services and raise awareness among private
entrepreneurs that benefits from expert support services can outweigh their costs.
50.    To adequately design the functioning of the PSF, a survey has been carried out to assess the
demand within the private sector for and supply of expert support services. In addition, a study has been
commissioned with a local consulting firm to develop the legal and organizational framework and
accounting system for the PSF and a detailed procedures manual. Based oii the two studies, the corporate
legal statutes and organizational and financial set-up were drawn up and discussed with IDA during
Project appraisal, and will be finalized and adopted by the Borrower before Credit effectiveness.



12                   Madagascar: Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project
51.    The procedures manual includes detailed step-by-step descriptions of such procedures as: (a)
criteria for selection of beneficiaries; (b) how to develop and maintain a roster of expertise and support
service providers; (c) how to assist the beneficiary in selecting a service provider; (d) the cost sharing
formula to be applied; and (e) how to monitor and evaluate the service assignment. The manual includes
sample documents for application to the fund, procurement of the service provider, the contract to be
used between the beneficiary and the service provider, and evaluation formats.
52.    During project appraisal, a project implementation planning workshop was held with
representative private sector beneficiaries and stakeholders to: (a) reach a consensus on the objectives of
the PSF; (b) formulate a work program for the initial period; and (c) define key performance indicators
and evaluation criteria.
53.    Under this component, IDA funds in the amount of US$4.5 million equivalent will be made
available as a grant by the Government to the FASP. They will also finance, on a cost-sharing basis,
consultancy, technical assistance and training services for eligible enterprises and business associations
of the private sector. These funds will finance over a period of three years salaries of a small
professional staff, office equipment and operating expenses of the FASP in addition to a public
awareness campaign.
54.    The FASP will maximize synergies with other donor-funded and private support service and
outreach programs to ensure its cost-effectiveness. During project preparation it was determined from
discussions with other multi-lateral and bilateral aid donors active in this area, that the FASP would be
strongly complementary to their efforts (which are more often based either upon direct service provision
by long-term expatriate advisers and/or assistance to arrange bank credit for project finance). In several
instances, most notably the European Union-funded PRIDE program, which is to fund support to private
firms in the four Indian Ocean Commission countries to encourage inter-regional trade, strategic
alliances are being worked out to coordinate activities and develop a pool of common, jointly funded
services. An operational service agreement ("protocole d'accord") may also be concluded to this effect
between the FASP and PRIDE, based upon the conclusions of a joint EU-Bank mission in May 1996.
55.    Electronic Commerce for Information and Market Access.  Due to weaknesses in
Madagascar's telecommunications infrastructure (one of the least developed in Africa), and its isolation
from world markets, Malagasy private entrepreneurs have little access to or experience of international
markets and the range of information services currently available. Only one or two Internet Service
Providers (ISPs) are established in Madagascar on a very small scale, serving only limited academic and
business needs. Establishment of more widely available electronic commerce (including Internet)
services to private business could greatly enhance the productivity and competitiveness of Malagasy
private firms at very low cost. The Electronic Commerce (including Internet) systems could inter alia:
(a) provide access to data bases and information services available internationally in a range of technical
and business-related fields; (b) connect Malagasy private firms with potential suppliers and business
partners abroad; (c) inter-connect private firms across different regions of Madagascar and create new
markets and business opportunities by improving information of demand and prices; (d) improve
nationwide access to locally available business support services; (e) greatly reduce communications and
data-transmission costs locally and internationally (compared with fax and other far more costly
services); and (f) create a strong private sector constituency for communications sector liberalization and
reform. The FASP will not substitute for current and potential new ISPs in terms of hardware and
software services. Rather it will act as a catalysi to enhance private sector awareness of potential
commercial uses of Internet services, to use the Internet to enhance its own services, and to enable small
firms (initially unable to purchase their own equipment) to have access to the Worldwide Web and a



Madagascar. Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project           13
national network on a retail, fee-for-service basis. The FASP will encourage and support existing and
new ISPs in Madagascar to provide services to Malagasy private firms.
56.   Specifically, the Project will support:  (a) private sector awareness building seminars to
disseminate information about available electronic commerce services (including via the Internet); (b)
development and adaptation of existing and new ISPs to better serve private sector needs in terms of
software, equipment and information services; (c) interconnection of FASP via the Internet with a
network of available international business information services to enhance its own expertise roster and
data base; (d) establishment of fee-based access to these Internet services for Malagasy private firms; and
(e) definition, as needed, of a legal and regulatory framework in Madagascar for electronic document
transmission and business transactions.  The Project would fund, as needed, training, local and
international expert services, limited equipment upgrading and software matching grants, and creation of
a dedicated private network for FASP. The Project will undertake these activities in close coordination
with the Infonet system being developed by the Indian Ocean Commission in connection with the PRIDE
program to avoid duplication and ensure maximum synergies between the two.
Improved Government/Private Sector Dialogue - Competitiveness Review Committee (CRC)
57.   The project would support the activities of the CRC, created in September 1995. Since then, the
provisional organization of the CRC has already been very active in contributing to the design of the
Government's adjustment program, most notably in preparation of the private sector incentives reforms
adopted by the Cabinet in May 1996. In December 1995, it appointed as a full-time Coordinator a
Malagasy professional with strong experience in both private sector and govemment. The CRC has
already created a network of active regional chapters in nine regions throughout Madagascar, and, with
their help and with a consultant, has undertaken a preliminary stock-taking of key bottlenecks facing
private sector operations. Since formal establishment in September 1996, the CRC has begun to work as
an independent advisory body with a mandate to: (a) identify and analyze policy and other business
environment constraints to private sector competitiveness; (b) develop detailed proposals for policy
change; and (c) submit these proposals for consideration by the highest levels of Government through the
Prime Minister's Office.
58.   The CRC is composed of knowledgeable senior government officials from key agencies
(participating in an individual expert capacity) and business people representing the various sectors,
business sizes and regions of the country, participating on a voluntary basis. An experienced local
consultant was recruited to advise on the formal organizational set-up for the CRC, the most appropriate
form of leadership and how to organize its relationship with the Government, recognizing that the CRC
needs to retain its independence but at the same time needs to enjoy strong commitment from and access
to the higher levels of the Government to be effective. On this basis, the CRC was established as a
private non-profit association ("association priv6e a but non-lucratif') in which private sector and
government representatives are members on an equal footing. In addition, a convention ("protocole
d'accord") was concluded (in October 1996) between the Govemment and the CRC recognizing its status
as a prime interlocutor between the Government and the private sector on competitiveness policy issues,
and formally committing the Government to take into account the CRC's recommendations for change.
59.   In October 1996, the CRC members elected a strong and influential private sector President, with
a reputation for integrity and credibility with both the public and private sectors, who would serve on a
"pro bono" basis elected by the members of the CRC.



14                   Madagascar. Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project
60.     During project appraisal, the members of the CRC conducted a project planning workshop to:
(a) reach a consensus on the priority themes for the policy dialogue during its first year; (b) prepare and
agree upon a detailed work program; and (c) develop an implementation plan and criteria for evaluation
of results.
61.    The CRC will be responsible for analyzing specific areas of the business environment. The CRC
will:  (a) elicit from  participants different perspectives on competitiveness issues; (b) commission
experts, when necessary, to conduct diagnostic studies and formulate alternative policy options; and (c)
invite individuals with appropriate expertise from Madagascar and abroad to present their experiences.
The general assembly will review their proposals, reach a consensus on recommendations and submit
these to the Government. The CRC will gather and provide members with relevant information and, as
necessary, contract experts to carry out studies to support the deliberations.
62.    The CRC will conduct a continuing public awareness campaign to disseminate its findings and
conclusions on reforms needed in the business environment for the development of the private sector.
63.    The Project will finance, over a period of three years: (1) salaries of CRC's  professional
Coordinator, a small support staff, supplies and other operating expenses; (2) consultants' services to
carry out policy diagnostic studies; (3) the public awareness campaign; and (4) international expert visits
to disseminate lessons learned and best practices from elsewhere.
Private Sector Seminars Program
64.    Due to weak communications and media, there is a major lack of up-to-date information and
knowledge in Madagascar on international trends in markets and technologies, and on policy and other
factors contributing to poor local economic performance. Improving public and especially private sector
awareness through wide dissemination of these and encouraging debate among different economic
groups nationally and regionally would help open up Madagascar's economy to world markets,
contribute to capacity building in the private sector, and build consensus for policy reform. Since late
1994, with support from the Bank's Economic Development Institute (EDI), a program of seminars,
organized and sponsored by Malagasy private sector voluntary groups, on major national economic
policy issues (anti- competitive practices in December 1994, export strategies in July 1995), have
successfully sparked national debate, generated consensus on actions needed, and improved knowledge
and awareness.
65.    The project would expand this effort by funding a three-year program  of seminars on
competitiveness issues involving a representative cross-section of public and private sector participants,
as well as representatives of Parliament, NGOs and the labor unions. (See Attachment 3 for details.)
These seminars will be locally held in Antananarivo and other regional centers across Madagascar. They
will serve as fora where private sector stakeholders and policy makers jointly identify and find practical
solutions to public policy impediments to private sector activities, or, alternatively, are exposed to
international market developments, trends, and approaches and technologies, management and marketing
techniques relating to important export and other activities for Madagascar. The seminars' conclusions
will serve as inputs for the CRC and for the FASP. Study tours would be organized on a selective basis
to expose Malagasy private sector and other participants to good practices abroad, both in policy reform,
technology developments and firm upgrading.
66.    The project will finance the preparation and conduct of at least three seminars, and one study
tour, each year. The seminars will be demand-driven, and highly participatory - focusing on topics



Madagascar: Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project                15
identified by the private sector stakeholders, and prepared and organized by local organizations in the
private sector, NGOs, and in government. The FASP will manage and administer a Seminars Fund for
financing the seminars program, with support from EDI to help ensure good pedagogy and exposure to
other countries' experiences through international resource persons. Eligible organizations will apply to
the Seminars Fund for partial financing to prepare and organize seminars on topics of broader national
interest in terms of private sector competitiveness, and would need to demonstrate they have the capacity
to do so and have identified an audience. Seminars would be at least partially self-financing from
registration fees, and sponsoring organizations'contributions. On a half-yearly basis, the Seminars Fund
would invite applications from local organizations, including the CRC. A tri-partite selection committee
comprising the Presidents of the CRC and STA, and the General Manager of the PSF will adjudicate
applications and award seminar grants.
FDI Match-Making Scheme
67.    The Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) Match-making Scheme will act as a catalyst for private
sector, market-based promotion of increased FDI inflows to Madagascar. It will address information
imperfections (about business potential in Madagascar) in prospective FDI supplying countries (in East
Asia, Europe, the Americas), by giving incentives to private intermediaries to use their existing
information networks to bring together local and foreign firms in collaboration arrangements. The
Scheme is patterned after similar successful endeavors in other African and East European transitional
economies, and is based upon a model developed by the Bank's Private Sector Development Department.
68.    Results of 'pilot" Program. To test the approach, a "pilot" FDI match-making program was
conducted over December 1995-July 1996, by a team of three foreign and three local private investment
brokers, with the support of Bank staff, and under the sponsorship of the Ministry of Industries and
Artisanry (MIA). The "pilot" scheme focused upon encouraging collaboration agreements between
private firms in Madagascar and in four East Asian countries - Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, and Japan.
The three local private investment brokers were recruited by open, competitive selection from the
Malagasy private sector by a committee of private sector representatives.
69.    The investment brokers team pre-identified over 100 Malagasy firms interested and capable of
entering into collaboration with foreign partner firms, and, on visits to the four East Asian countries,
accompanied by a senior MIA official, they pre-identified about 60 small-medium Asian private firms
seriously interested in considering investing in Madagascar, and who were a sectoral match for the local
firms. The Asiaii entrepreneurs were invited to visit Madagascar to prospect for partners and also to give
feedback directly to the private sector and government officials about the Malagasy business
environment and improvements needed.
70.    Under the "pilot" scheme, some 60 East Asian entrepreneurs visited Madagascar over April-July,
with logistical assistance and support from the investment brokers' team. As noted in the MOP para.3 1,
the "pilot" has confirmed in a number of important respects the potential for setting up a fully fledged
FDI Match-making Scheme along market lines. Specifically, it succeeded in: (a) attracting foreign
entrepreneurs to visit Madagascar by better informing them of opportunities; (b) generating foreign-local
partnerships where they would otherwise not have occurred;  (c) improving Malagasy private
entrepreneurs' exposure to foreign investors; (d) building a small pool of Malagasy, and also foreign,
private investment brokers to undertake such promotion activities in future; (e) obtaining valuable direct
feedback on improvements needed in Madagascar's business environment.



16                  Madagascar: Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project
71.   FDI Match-Making Scheme. Based upon the positive results of the "pilot", it was decided to
include an FDI Match-making Scheme in the Project. Under this component, funding will be made
available to facilitate export-oriented collaboration between Malagasy private firms and small and
medium private businesses in developed and high-perfornance developing economies. Promoting
export-oriented FDI and joint ventures is a key ultimate goal. However, as an initial step, the Scheme
will focus mainly upon promoting export-oriented international subcontracts, technical marketing
agreements, and turn-key plants.
72.   Match-Making Fund (MMF). Under the Scheme, linkages will be established with small-
medium scale foreign private partner firms who would provide local potential exporters with: (a) access
to the external market network and market information for export products; (b) access to export
production know-how; and (c) access to the external market network and information on input sourcing.
Private local matchmakers, as well as foreign private investment brokers overseas, would identify
potential foreign collaborators, broker information on business opportunities in Madagascar, and use
their information network to link foreign collaborators with potential local partners. Matchmakers who
succeed in brokering a contract between local and foreign partners will receive a performance fee based
on the size and the nature of the contract. The payment of matchmaking fees will be shared between: (a)
the Matchmaking Fund to be established under this component; (b) the foreign partner; and (c) the local
exporter. (See Attachment 4 for details)
73.    The Project will finance over a period of three years the Matchmaking Fund which would
provide performance-based incentives to private business brokers and in the process, accelerate the
creation of a commercial market for this type of service; and further training to strengthen the pool of
local private investment brokers. The Match-making Fund will be managed by the FASP on a contract
basis.
m. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
74.    Project Benefits. The Project is projected to yield substantial economic benefits (as noted in
MOP para. 42) many of which are non-quantifiable, given the qualitative nature of the Project activities
and their impact. However, the following assessments can be made for individual Project components:
(a) Privatization. Expost quantitative estimates of economic returns to PE divestitures in other countries
(notably in the Galal et al. study of Chile, Malaysia, Mexico, and UK) indicate positive economic
welfare gains exceeding 10 percent in the majority of privatized PEs, with even stronger gains in some
2
cases in terms of expanded private investment and output and returns to innovation . In Madagascar, in
potentially viable activities, economic gains can be expected to be greater than in these cases, due to the
depleted capital stock in many PEs coupled with the public investment constraint, as well as the
correspondingly greater scope for productivity improvements. Consumer surpluses should be substantial
in cases (e.g., telecoms, ports, shipping) where new entrants improve service and competition reduces
prices. (b) Tax Reform. The tax administration overhaul is expected to yield major improvements in
terms of tax collections (from 7.7 percent of GDP in 1995, to about 11 percent of GDP in 1999), in
efficiency of tax administration (in terms of tax collections per tax service employee), and in scope
created for reduced fiscal deficits and thus increased public savings and reduced private sector borrowing
costs. (c) Private Sector Fund Matching Grant Scheme.  Other countries' (e.g., India, Kenya)
experiences indicate output gains of ten times the cost of productivity upgrading activities funded by
participating firms with matching grant program support. Rapid expansion of EPZ export activities in
2 Ahmed Galal, et al.: Welfare Consequences of Selling Public Enterprises, 1994, World Bank.



Madagascar: Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project           17
Madagascar over 1990-94 suggest similar gains are feasible. (d) FDI Match-Making Scheme. Based
upon experiences elsewhere, the Scheme is expected to generate expanded foreign direct investment of
US$30 million over the life of the Project and an increase in annual exports of US$100million by the end
of the Project.
SECTION B: PROJECT COSTS AND ADMINISTRATION
I. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
75.   The proposed project is estimated to cost, over a five year period, US$35.5 million equivalent.
Base costs calculated on the basis of December 1996 prices, are estimated at US$33.2 million and
physical and price contingencies have been calculated at 2.5 per cent per annum and are estimated at
US$2.3 million (7.0 per cent of base costs); the foreign exchange component would amount to US$17.4
million. The estimated cost of the five-year economic policy reform program would be US$17.8 million
equivalent; the cost of the three-year private sector capacity building program is estimated at US$12.7
million. Project preparation costs funded by the PPF amount to the equivalent of US$2 million.
76.   The project would be financed by an IDA credit of US$23.8 million equivalent, contributions
from the Government (US$6.1 million), and beneficiary private enterprises and associations (US$5.3
million). A contribution of US$0.4 million is also anticipated. The detailed cost estimates and financing
plan that are in Attachment I are summarized in the following tables.
Table 1
Estimated Project Cost
(in US$000's)
Local   Foreign   Total    %      % Total
Base Costs
Economic Policy Reform Program           9,584     8,260  17,844   46.3        53.7
Privatization and PE Divestiture Program  7,947  6,310   14,257   44.2       42.9
Tax System and Tax Administration      1,437     1,650   3,087   53.4         9.3
Reform                                                         I
Investment Incentives Reform             200       300     500   60.0          1 .5
Private Sector Capacity Building         6,115     6,569  12,684   51.8        38.2
Program
Comite de Reflexion sur la Competitivite  638      620    1,258   49.3        3.8
Private Sector Seminars Program          540       306     846   36.2         2.5
Fonds d'Appui au Secteur Prive         3,315     4,677   7,992   58.5        24.1
FDI Match-Making Scheme                 1,622      966   2,588   37.3          7.8
Project Monitoring and Audits             360       315      675   46.7         2.1
Refund of PPF Advance                      850     1,150   2,000   57.5         6.0
Total Base Costs                   16,909    16,294  33,203   49.1       100.0
Price and Physical Contingencies         1,184     1,140   2,324   49.1         7.0
Total Costs                        18,093    17,434  35,527   49.1       107.0



18                      Madagascar: Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project
Table 2: Project Financing Plan
(in US$000's)
Local         Foreign             Total |_%_|
IDA                                        13,529           10,229           23,758            66.9
Government                                  2,167            3,901            6,068            17.1
Private Sector                              2,397            2,876            5,273            14.8
Other                                            0             428              428              1.2
Total                                  18,093           17,434           35,572           100.0
II. PROCUREMENT
77.    Procurement will concern mainly consultant services, equipment and vehicles, and  incremental
operating costs of the project institutions. The table below summarizes the project elements and their
estimated costs and proposed method of procurement.
Table 3
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(in US$000's)
Total Costs
Project Element                             Procurement Method
ICB       NCB       Other       NBF
Goods
*   Vehicles                                      260                    46         54          360
(306)
*   Office Equipment                              738                   130        152         1020
_________    (868)
Consultant services
*   Consultancies                                                     9,968      6,566        16,534
(9,968)
*   Technical Assistance                                              1,801       725          2,526
(1,801)
*   Training                                                          2,261       680          2,941
(2,261)
*   Communications Services                                  694                                694
(694)
*   Audits and Implementation Evaluation                     925                                925
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __ _______   _ ________(9 2 5 )
Other
*   FDI Match-Making Fund                                             1,187      1,188         2,375
(1,187)
*   Operating Expenses                                                2,194      1,634         3,828
(1,744)
*   PPF Refund                                                        2,000                    2,000
(2,000)
TOTAL                           998       1,619    19,587     10,999        33,203
Note: Amounts in parenthesis are amounts financed by the Credit.
Operating Expenses include miscellaneous expenses such as office supplies, utilities, etc.
All costs are net of duties and direct and indirect taxes.
NBF means non-Bank financed.



Madagascar. Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project                19
78.    The PSF will be responsible for the procurement of the goods and services of all the private
sector capacity building components (matching-grant fund, CRC, FDI scheme and Seminars). The
Privatization Committee Technical Secretariat will be responsible for the procurement of goods and
services for the PE Divestiture component. The Ministry of Decentralization and Budget will be
responsible for procurement for part of the tax administration reform component, the IMF being
expected to be executive agency for this component. Procurement of goods (computers, equipment and
vehicles) will be made according to local shopping procedures, based on three quotations, for any single
contract totaling US$30,000 or less, in accordance with IDA's guidelines of January 1995. Contracts for
goods equal to or above US$30,000 will be procured in packages of at least US$100,000 whenever
possible, through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Contracts for goods, whose cost will be
equal to or above US$50,000 will be subjected to prior review by IDA. Consultants' services (for studies
and technical services) which represent the bulk of IDA financing (US$9.97 million) will be contracted
in accordance with IDA's guidelines for the Use of Consultants (New Guidelines). All consultant
contracts, whose cost will be equal to or above US$50,000 for individual consultants and equal to or
above US$100,000 for firms, will be subjected to prior review by IDA; contracts below these thresholds
will be subject to ex-post review by the Association.
79.    Technical Assistance to be financed by the PSF. Eligible private enterprises and associations
will be assisted by the PSF in contracting directly the expertise they need. The statutes and the Manual of
Procedures of the PSF will specify that, to be eligible for financing, beneficiaries may select: (a) for
projects with total costs of less than US$5,000, individual consultants directly from the roster, or other
sources through the comparison of at least three CV's based upon terms of reference specifying
qualifications using a points scoring system; and (b) for projects with total costs of over US$5,000,
through competitive procedures acceptable to IDA. In both cases and for each assignment, the concerned
beneficiary will select or invite consultants to bid on the basis of a short list drawn from a roster prepared
by the PSF, or other sources. PSF's roster will be updated twice a year to include new consultants or
exclude unsatisfactory ones.  The Manual of Procedures of the PSF was agreed at IDA  credit
negotiations and its adoption was made a condition of credit effectiveness. Standard Letters of Invitation
to Bid that the beneficiaries of the PSF will use were agreed upon with IDA during appraisal. The
carrying out by PSF's beneficiaries of procurement procedures satisfactory to IDA is an eligibility
criterion to PSF's financial support.
80.    To ensure that procurement will be carried out adequately, AGETIPA, an agency which hias a
well-established track record of efficient procurement strictly following IDA guidelines, hias been
contracted to act as the procurement agency for the PSF and the CRC components of the project until
Project effectiveness. During this period, AGETIPA will train the concerned personnel of PSF in
procurement.
81.    Tax Administration Reform. The Borrower will invite the IMF's Fiscal Affairs Department-
(FAD) to act as executing agency for this component of the Project (condition of disbursement). It is
expected that a technical assistance agreement would be signed between the Ministry of Decentralization
and Budget and  the IMF-FAD to formalize this arrangement.  In addition to one long-term tax
administration expert already funded by the IMF and in place since September 1996, a second long-term
expert in customs administration would be hired iiiitially for one year. The IMF will also be responsible
for short-term missions and the training program, while the Ministry of Finance will handle procurement
for goods.



20                  Madagascar: Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project
III. DISBURSEMENT
82.   The IDA Credit is expected to be effective by June 1997; the privatization and tax administration
components of the project will be executed over the following five years, while the private sector
incentives and capacity building components will be executed over the following three years. Based
upon other developing countries' experiences, implementation over five years seems reasonable given
the size of the Malagasy privatization program. On the other hand, the capacity building components are
not expected to last more than three years. The success todate in implementing these types of
components elsewhere and the already well-advanced state of preparation of each component indicate
that their objectives can be met during this length of time. The following table gives the disbursement
schedule of the project which is supposed to be closed in June 30, 2002.
Table 4: Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$000's)
Disbursement Profile         FY98    FY99    FY00    FY01    FY02    FY03
Annual                        8,500    7,000    5,000    2,000    1,000       258
Cumulative                            15,500   20,500   22,500   23,500   23,758
Percentage                     36%      65%      86%       95%      99%     100%
83.   Disbursement will be made on the basis of 100 percent of total expenditures free of direct or
indirect taxes and duties for IDA's share of the cost of goods and consultant services.
84.   The percentages have been based on the average of tax and duty rates and are calculated to
exclude local taxes and duties. The Project will refinance the PPF advance upon Project effectiveness.
As in the case of procurement, the FASP will act as disbursement agency for all goods and services
financed by the IDA Credit for the private sector capacity building components, while the Ministry of
Finance will disburse for the policy reform components, with the exception of services under the tax
reform component which will be under the IMF's responsibility. Disbursement will be fully documented
except for the payment of contracts of less than US$100,000 equivalent for goods and consultant firms,
US$50,000 for individual consultants and all operating costs, which will be made against certified
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Documents for withdrawal under SOEs will be retained by the FASP
and the Ministry of Finance and made available for independent auditors and for review by IDA during
supervision missions.
85.   The IDA Credit is expected to be disbursed for the categories shown in Table 5 below over a
period of five years, following Project effectiveness.
86.   To expedite project implementation, two special accounts will be opened at a commercial bank
acceptable to IDA and maintained and operated on terms and conditions also acceptable to IDA by: (a)
the GOM for the privatization, incentives reform and tax reform components; and (b) the PSF for all
other components of the project. The Special Account administered by the GOM will be in the amount
of US$300,000. The special account for the private sector capacity building component will be in the
amount of US$600,000. The Association will make an initial deposit in the Special Accounts upon
credit effectiveness. Upon effectiveness, the borrower could claim one half of the authorized allocation
as the initial advance to the special account. The remainder would become payable as a supplementary
advance once one-third of the credit has been disbursed. Replenishment requests will be submitted



Madagascar: Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project                  21
monthly and will be accompanied by proof of eligible expenditures acceptable to IDA, by up-to-date
bank statements and reconciliation of the concerned Special Account and will be fully documented
except for expenditures below US$100,000 for goods and services from consulting firms, and US$50,000
for services of individual consultants, for which the borrower will be allowed to submit claims on the
basis of SOEs. Documentation used for SOEs will be retained and made available for independent
auditors and for review by IDA during supervision missions.
87.    To ensure timely provision of local counterpart funds, the Government will open and maintain in
a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA an advance account, into which an initial
advance of the equivalent in FMG of US$50,000 will be made, and which will be periodically
replenished at that level.
Table 5: Disbursements of IDA Credit
(US$000's)
Category of Disbursement        Amount          Percentage of expenditure financed
1. Goods
* Policy reform components            1.064         1 00%/r of foreign expenditures and
. Private sector capacity building     110 o             85% of local expenditures
components
2. PSF sub-projects                     3,400                    100%
of amount paid by PSF
3. Consultants Services
*  Policy reform components           6,860                    100%
.  Private sector capacity building   2,089                    100%
components
.  Training Fund                      3,300                    100%/0
4. Operating Expenses                   2,194          100% of foreign expenditures and
85% of local expenditures
5. FDI Funds
.  Match-making Fund                  1,187                    100%
6. Refunding of PPF Advances            2,000                    100%
7. Unallocated                           1,554          .-
Total                    23,75838_
IV. ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
88.    The borrower possesses the ability to process and maintain SOE documentation in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, and appropriate accounting and control systems are in place for the expenditures
for which reimbursements would be claimed under the SOE procedures. All project accounts including
the two special accounts and SOEs will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
These auditors will be recruited by the PSF and by GOM on a pluri-annual basis in accordance with the
terms of reference already used in Madagascar and short lists acceptable to IDA. The audit report will be
submitted to IDA no later than six months after the closing of the fiscal year in Madagascar. In addition



22                  Madagascar. Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project
to the financial audit, the PSF will be subject to bi-yearly operational audits including review of
procedures and impact on client enterprises, during the first two years of operations.
SECTION C: IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
I. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
89.   Economic Policy Reform Program. Responsibility for the procurement, disbursement and
accounting for the three components of the policy reform program will be with the Ministry of Finance.
Specific responsibility for implementing the privatization and tax reform programs will be delegated to
the Privatization Committee and the General Directorate of Fiscal Resources respectively, the former
attached to the Ministry of Private Sector Development and Privatization (MDSPP), the latter attached to
the Ministry of Decentralization and Budget (MB).  Meanwhile the market liberalization and private
sector incentives reform component will be managed by the Technical Secretariat for Adjustment (STA),
in close coordination with the CRC. The tax administration component is expected to be implemented
with the IMF-FAD as executing agency, arranging technical assistance, and undertaking overall
supervision and support.
90.   Private Sector Capacity Building Program. The PSF would act as the executing agent for the
private sector capacity building program carrying primary responsibility for the procurement,
disbursement and accounting for all four components. The CRC would be responsible for substantive
management of the competitiveness review dialogueue. The PSF will manage the Match-Making Fund
for the FDI Match-Making Scheme. The operational status of the PSF will be based on an official
Framework Agreement ("Convention") between the Government and the organization, ensuring its
operational independence and accountability. A local work group composed of representatives of the
business community has overseen the preparation of the legal and organizational framework for the PSF
and coordinated recruitment of its managing director.
L. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
91.   The implementation schedule of the project was agreed during negotiations. The project will be
implemented over a five-year period following effectiveness which is expected on June 30, 1997. The
credit is expected to be closed in December 2002. Detailed implementation timetables for the economic
policy reform program and the private sector capacity building program are included in Attachment 3.
III. KEY INDICATORS OF PROJECT PERFORMANCE
92.   Key performance indicators for all Project components have been defined by implementing
organizations and beneficiaries during Project appraisal, and confirmed at Credit negotiations. For the
FASP and CRC components, these were outputs of the project planning workshops, which also finalized
implementation plans and  timetables, and evaluation criteria, to ensure broad-based stakeholder
ownership. Agreed performance indicators are presented in Attachment 2.
93.   Economic Policy Reforms. Based upon the log-frame matrices in Attachment 2, proposed key
performance indicators (agreed at negotiations) are as follows: (I) Privatization Program: (a) increased
productivity, output and investment in privatized PEs and in new private entrants into privatized PE
sectors; (b) reduction in net budget transfers to PEs; (c) increased local private shareholding in



Madagascar: Private Sector Development and Capacitv Building Project                23
privatized PEs; (d) volume of PE divestiture transactions (privatizations and liquidations) completed
annually compared to agreed target; and (e) public awareness of, and support for, privatization program.
(II) Tax Administration Reform: (a) tax collections as % of GDP; (b) improved efficiency of VAT
collections and reimbursements to exporters; (c) increase in taxpayers registrations, in average taxpayer
tax payments, and in tax returns per tax official; and (d) increased taxpayer perception of transparency,
equity and accessibility of tax system. (IlI) Private Sector Incentives Reforms: (a) accelerated pace and
increased level of private investment due to removal of regulatory barriers-to-entry and procedural
bottlenecks; (b) increased level of foreign direct investment (FDI) due to relaxation of land access and
other barriers; (c) level of private investment in former state monopoly sectors; and (d) improved private
investor confidence in the business environment.
94.    Private Sector Capacity Building. Based UpOIn the log-frame matrix (Attachment 2), proposed
performance indicators for the four components (CRC, FASP, PSD Seminars, FDI Scheme) -- agreed at
Project negotiations -- are as follows: (a) expanded exports and output in assisted firms as % of total
export and output growth; (b) improvement in productivity and technical and managerial capabilities of
assisted firms compared to intemational norms; (c) expanded range of services and productivity of
participating local business support service providers; (d) consideration and adoption by Government of
at least four CRC recommendations a year; (e) expanded FDI and exports by firms participating in FDI
Scheme; and (f) increased private sector awareness of PSD policy reform issues, and international
market trends and requirements. The indicators in (a) - (f) are to be compared to relative performance of
a control group of firms not benefiting from the Capacity Building Program, the key performance
criterion being accelerated achievement by assisted firms as compared to non-assisted ones.
95.    Tracking and Measurement of Performance. As indicated in the log-frame matrices in
Attachment 2 annual sample surveys will be undertaken of: privatized PEs; private enterprises (including
foreign investors); taxpayers; and other stakeholder groups, in order to assess performance against
initially agreed targets, and against baseline-Year zero data. Funding for these limited-scale, stratified
sample surveys has been included in Project Costs.
IV. MONITORING AND PROGRESS REPORTING
96.    The action plans and tables of key activities, evaluation criteria and performance indicators,
prepared during Project appraisal and agreed at credit negotiations, for each of the components
(Attachment (2) will serve as a basis for monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of the respective
work programs. Three months before the end of each calendar year, the Government, private sector
project beneficiaries and IDA will convene an annual review meeting to review the results achieved
under each of the project components and prepare a detailed work program to be carried out during the
next year under each component. Finalization of the annual work programs for the CRC and the FASP
will be based on the results of project planning workshops which will be held prior to each review. Two
IDA-Government reviews of the project, in lieu of one mid-term review, will be carried out about one
and one half years and three years following the date of credit effectiveness to measure progress
accomplished against targets and define adjustments that may be required to ensure that the objectives of
the project will be achieved.
97.    Each of the project institutions will report quarterly on the results achieved with regard to the
component(s) for which they are responsible no later than one month after the end of the concerned
quarter. These reports would describe actual progress against agreed output targets, indicate existing or
potential difficulties that might affect project progress, provide a financial statement of project
expenditures, list the contracts concluded during the period and will give updated projections and plans



24                   Madagascar: Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project
for future activity. The Borrower will submit to IDA a project completion report no later than six
months after the closing date of the Credit.
V. SUPERVISION
98.    The seven components included in the project will require intensive supervision initially,
estimated at about 25 staff weeks (sw) per year excluding IMF staff during the first two years and about
15 staff seeks/year thereafter. Africa Region Private Sector Development and Finance staff, as well as
staff from the FPD Vice-Presidency and EDI will be involved in the supervision and implementation
process. Supervision missions will be fielded three times a year for the first two years, and semi-
annually afterwards.
99.    The IMF plans to assist the Bank Group in supervising the substantive aspects of the tax system
and tax administration reform program. The Bank Group would retain overall supervision responsibility,
including procurement and disbursements.



Madagascar: Private Sector and Capacity Building Project                                Attachment I
Page 1 of 3
Detailed Project Costs by Subcomponent
and Financing Plan
Local     Foreign     Total    Foreign       % of
Exchange    Total
_ _ _ __(%)  Base Cost
Economic Policy Reform Program
Privatization and PE Divestiture Program
Privatization Committee
Equipment                                         80          0         80         0.0         0.2
Public informnation campaign                     200        400        600        66.7         1.8
Operating expenses                              1,492          0      1,492        0.0         4.5
Audit                                            125           0       125         0.0         0.4
Project management                               125           0       125         0.0         0.4
Total Privatization Committee     2.022        400      2A22         16,5        7.3
Technical Assistance for exec. of div.
program
Sector studies                                   200        400        600        66.7         1.8
Legal and regulatory consultants                 100         73        173        42.2         0.5
Implementation of divestitures (inv. advisers)   900       5,085     5,985        84.9        18.0
Liquidation of PE' s (liquidators)               200          0        200         0.0         0.6
General studies                                   50          0         50         0.0        0.2
Total Execution      1.450      5.558      1,008       79.3        21.1
Privatization Trust Fund (PTF)
Management fee                                   825          0        825         0.0        2.5
OTC market study                                  50         52        102        50.9        0.3
Total PTF        8-S          52       927         5.6         2.8
Privatization Social Fund
Management fee                                   200          0        200         0.0         0.6
Total Priv. Social Fuind     200          II       200         0A.0       01.6
Arbitration Commission
Equipment                                         30           0        30         0.0        0.1
Operating expenses                               370          0        370         0.0         1.1
Total Arbitration Cummission       400           0       400         U.(l        1.2
Retraining Fund                                                            l
Consultancies                                  3,000        300      3,300         9.0        9.9
Total Retraining Fund      3,000!       300      3,300        9.0         9.9
Total l'E Divestiture Program     7 ,947     6,31(    14,257       44.2        42.9
Tax System and Tax Administration Reform
Tax Administration Reform
Equipment                                         83        300        383       78.3          1.2
Long-term advisers and consultants                 0        400        400       100.0         1.2
Incremental operating costs                      946          0        946         0.0        2.8
Total Tax Administration Reform      1,029        700      1.79        40.5 11      5.2
Customs Reform
Equipment                                        210        500        710        70.4        2.1
Long-term advisers and consultants                 0        300        300       100.0        0.9
Incremental operating costs                       30          0         30         0.0        0.1
Total Cuistum Administration Refornm      240         800      1.040 i     76.9 I       3.1



Madagascar: Private Sector and Capacity Building Project                              Attachment I
Page 2 of 3
Local     Foreign     Total    Foreign      % of
Exchange    Total
(%)     Base Cost
Training
Equipment                                        47          0        47         0.0        0.1
Trainers and preparation of materials           121        150       271        55.3         0.9
Totai Training       168        IS0       318        47,2         1.0
Total Tax Reform Program       1i437      1,650     3,087       53.4       . 9.3.
Investment Incentives Reform
Consultancies                                   200        300        500       60.0         1.5
Total Investment Incentives Reform   .    200i     300       5n00       60.0         1.5
Total Economic Policy Reform Program          9,584       8,260    17,844       46.3        53.7
Private Sector Capacity Building Program
Competitiveness Review Committee (CRC)
Consultants for policy studies                  230        500       730        68.5         2.2
Public awareness campaign                        45          0        45         0.0        0.1
Project planning workshops                       20         40        60        67.7         0.2
Equipment                                        12          0         12        0.0        0.1
CRC staffing & operating costs                  331         80       411        19.5         1.2
Total CRC        638         620     1,258       493          3.8
Private Sector Seminars Program
Trainers and resource persons                     0        306       306       100.0         0.9
Seminar expenses                                 50          0        50         0.0        0.1
Participants costs (subsistence, materials)     328          0       328         0.0         1.0
Preparation of seminar materials                162          0        162        0.0        0.5
Total Private Sector Seminars Prograin     540        306        846.      36.2         2.5
Fonds d' Appui au Secteur Prive (FASP)
Matching Grant Fund:
Firn-level support services                   2,000       3,500     5,500       63.6        16.6
Support for business associations               300       1,000     1,300       76.9        3.9
Public awareness campaign                        49          0        49         0.0        0.2
Project planning workshops                       10         30        40        75.0        0.2
Equipment                                        28          0        28         0.0        0.1
Operating costs                                 757         75       832         9.0        2.5
Electronic commerce/Internet                     55         60        115       52.2        0.3
Equipment for regional offices                   78         12        90        13.3        0.2
Operating expenses for regional offices          38          0        38         0.0        0.1
......T.. EE             lP -1 .. .. ...
FDI Match-Making Scheme
Match-making fund                             1,500        875      2,375       36.8         7.2
Follow-up training                               40         41        81        50.6         0.2
Operating costs                                  82         50        132       37.9         0.4
Total FDI Match-Making Scheme       1,622        966      2.588       37.3         7.8
Total Private Sector Capacitv Building        6,115       6,569 !  12,684       51.8        38.2
Prograni
Project Monitoring and Audits
Financial audits                                 75          0        75         0.0         0.2
Management audits                                 0        225       225       100.0         0.7
Monitoring and evaluation                       285         90       375        24.0         1.2
Total Project Mionitoriug and Audits    360         315       675       46.7         2.1



Madagascar: Private Sector and Capacity Building Project                              Attachment I
Page 3 of 3
Local    Foreign     Total    Foreign       % of
Exchange    Total
(%)    Base Cost
Refund of PPFAdvance                            850       1,150     2,000       57.5        6.0
Total Base Costs                             16,909     16,294    33,203       49.1       100.0
Price & Physical Contingencies                1.184       1,140     2,324      49.1         7.0
Total Costs    .18,093   .17,434    35,527       49.1       107.0






Madagascar: Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project                                             Attachment 2
Page I of 4
MADAGASCAR PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
LOGICAL FRAMEWORK
TAX REFORM AND INVESTMENT INCENTIVE COMPONENT
NARRATIVE SUMMARY             PERFORMANCE INDICATORS          MONITORING & SUPERVISION           ASSUMPTIONS & RisKs
Impact                           Level of tax revenue as a         *   National accounts          a   Continuing government
*   Increased tax revenue in terms   percentage of GDP             *   Periodic reporting of the      commitment to undertake the
of percentage of GDP                                               pilot division                 tax and custom adminstration
*   More equitable and                                             *   EPZ records                    reform
transparent fiscal regime                                                                     *   Foreign and local private
*   More attractive investment                                                                        investor confidence sustained
climate for foreign and local                                                                     by equitable and open
investors                                                                                         regulatory framework
*   More attractive investment                                                                    *   Reform can be achieved
climate for foreign and local                                                                     without major salary revision
investors
Outcomes                          *   Increase in number of         *   Survey of entrepreneurs   *   People will start to pay tax if
*   Increase of taxable base          coverage and private tax      *   Reports of tax and custom     level of taxes and tariffs is
*   Lowering of tax rates offset by   payers                            administrations               lowered, procedures are more
increase of efficiency in    *   Evolution of tax rates and                                      transparent and the
revenue collection               tariffs                                                          administration is more effective
*   More flexibility in access to  *   Number of VAT
land ownership for foreign       reimbursement applications
investors                    *   Perception of equitability and
transparency of the tax and
customs systems
Outputs                          *   Public perception of simplified   *   Survey of private
.   More efficient tax and custom     and more transparent              entrepreneurs
administrations                  procedures                    *   Publication in the Official
   Revised tax code             *   Private sector awareness of the    Gazette of the law
*   Integration of the investment     reform                            suppressing the current
code in the general tax code  *   Adoption of the revised           investment code and
*   Simplified and more               general tax code by 9/96          modifying the general tax
transparent procedures       *   Number of companies that           code
*   Private sector information        have been allocated a single  *   Publication in the Official
campaign                         tax identification number          Gazette of the legal texts
*   Duration of "bail            *   Adoption of the legal texts        making more flexible
emphyteotique"on land            making more flexible access to    access to land ownerhsip
extended to 99 years and bail    land ownership for foreign        for foreign investors
made mortgageable                investors
*   Free access to land ownership
for foreigners investing in
specific sectors
Activities                        Input                             *   Project progress reports
*   Creation of a pilot division  *   $2.1 million in IDA funds     *   Regular project
taking care of the largest   *   $1.1 million in government         monitoring and
enterprises                      contributions                      supervision missions
*   Computerization of the tax and
customs administrations.
*   Technical assistance to the tax
and customs administration
*   Transformation of the one-
stop shop into an independent
and privately-run investment
promotion center



Madagascar: Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project                                          Attachment 2
Page 2 of 4
PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM COMPONENT
NARRATIVE SUMMARY            PERFORMANCE INDICATORS          MONITORING & SUPERVISION          ASsUMPTIONS & RISKS
Impact
*   Improved growth, efficiency of  *   Expanded investment,      *   Annual sample survey of     *   Govt has political will to
productive investment &          productivity & employment        firms (starting with           sustain programs on timely
employment due to shift to       efficiency in privatized PEs     benchmark-pre-privatization)    basis to its conclusion
private management and           and in new entrants in prior
capital investment (foreign &    state monopoly sectors, and in
domestic)                        asset use (of liquidated PEs)
*   Improved efficiency of public    *   Reduced/eliminated net   *   Periodic (annual) reporting    *   General public confidence
expenditure, due to eliminated   transfers to & losses of PEs     by PE transfer tracking        in program maintained - due
PE losses & transfers from       as % of public expenditure       system                          to transvarency and stronp
Govt. & more efficient public    (and of bank credit);                                            local participation
services                         improved level & efficiency
of public services due to
private delivery/management
*   Increase depth & breadth of  *   Increased local private      *   Annual surveys of share-    *   Foreign (and local) private
financial savings & capital      savings & investment in share    holding in privatized PEs       investor confidence
markets                          holding in privatized PEs -      (conducted by PTF)              sustained by equitable, open
incl. by small & first-time                                     regulatory framework
investors
Outcomes
*   Improved efficiency of       *   Number of enterprises        *   Annual survey of privatized    *   Private investment finance
assets/enterprises divested      (privatized PEs) recording       PEs (by Committee on            for post privatization
gains in: output, investment,   privatization)                  investment is forthcoming
productivity, (exports),
employment/labor
productivity (by 2006)
*   Expand local financial savings   *   Number of Individual. &  *   Annual survey of            *   Liquidity of secondary
& shareholding through           corp. shareholders investing     shareholders (by PTF - see      share/equities market
investment in privatized PEs     in privatized PEs (by 2003/4)    above)
*   Eliminate PE losses/transfers    *   Number of PEs posting    *   Reports of PE Transfer
losses/transfers, & total level  Tracking System (PETTS)
of these (by 2004/5)
*   Improve efficiency of, &     *   (see above)
incomes from redeployment of
workers
*   Continuing, broad, public    *   Majority of public & major    *   Periodic opinion sample
support for privatization        stakeholder groups show high     survey
program & understanding of its   satisfaction level &
aims, means & progress           recognition



Madagascar. Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project                                               Attachment 2
Page 3 of 4
NARRATIVE SUMMARY              PERFORMANCE INDICATORS           MONITORING & SUPERVISION            ASSUMPTIONS & RISKS
Outputs
*   Establish/implement           *   Creation of institutional set-    .   Project progress reports  *   Transactions effectively
Privatization Program             up (by 1996)                                                        delegated to private. inv.
*   Number of PE divestiture      *   Project monitoring surveys       advisers on open,
transactions completed (p.a.),    (Q)                              competitive, results-oriented
& in relation. to total PE                                         basis
employment, sales, assets
*   Number of private. investment  *   Project progress reports
advisers recruited
competitively
*   Establish/implement     .         Volume of success fees paid    *   Project progress reports     *   Other donors (e.g.. CFD) buy
privatization trust fund & priv.  to investment advisers                                              into competitive market
social fund                   *   Start up of PTF operations (by   *   Project progress reports       approach
Q411996)                     *   Project progress reports
*   Start up of PSF operations (by
Ql/1997)
*   Volume of privatized PE
shares purchased and sold
annually by PTF (1996-2006)
(and purchase and resale
prices)
*   Establish/implement PE        *   Start of PE transfer tracking  *   PTF progress reports         .   All elements of institutional.
transfers tracking & control      system (1996)                                                       framework set up at start of
system                        *   Volume of PE transfers & no.   *   Project progress reports of      program
of PEs involved (p.a.))           PETTS
*   Record of sanctions applied to   *   Project progress reports of
deficit PEs                       PETTS
*   Establish/implement PE
redundancy & re-employment
scheme
*   Establishlimplement public    .   Start public awareness        *   Project progress reports      *   Govt. (esp. MFB) fully
awareness & communication         campaign (by 1996)            *   Privatization Committee           supports tracking of P.E
campaign                      .   Number, regional &                progress reports                 transfers
stakeholder spread of public
awareness events (by type)
(bi-annually)
Activities                         Inputs
*   Experienced technical          *   $9.8m  in IDA funds           *   Activities verified through
secretariat to Privatization                                         regular project monitoring
Committee to oversee program
*   Contracting out PE divestiture    *   $4.4m Govt. financial
preparation & execution to         contribution
private investment advisers
*   Management of purchase &       *   Private sector (private
resale of privatized PE shares    investor) contribution: $4.4m
to local investors/small savers
(contracted out to pvt. mgr.)
*   Contracting out public
awareness campaign to private
professional media &
communication firms.
*   Grants to self-
employed/unemployed poor to
self-help/food security micro-
projects (via FID)



Madagascar: Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project                                                           Attachment 2
Page 4 of 4
BUSINESS SERVICES AND DIALOGUE SUPPORT COMPONENTS
NARRATIVE SUMMARY                      PERFORMANCE INDICATORS            MONITORING & SUPERVISION              ASSUMPTIONS & RISKS
Impact
*   Enhance  Private  Sector  Performance  -  *   2% growth p.a. in assisted       *   Annual survey of assisted      *   Govt. commits to
Accelerated   Growth  of  Exports,  Output,    firm exports/% total growth in       firms (starting 1998)            independent pvt. delivery systems
Investment                                       exports (ditto inv. & output)                                       (FASP/CRC/MMF)
*   Enhance Pvt. Business Infrastructure -       *   Major increase in firms' tech.   *   Annual survey of assisted   *   Govt. high-level
Strengthen (a) Malagasy pvt. firms' management.  & mgmt. capabilities and           firms (starting 1998)            consideration of CRC policy
& tech. capabilities (b) business support services  productivity relation. to                                        proposals
*   Increase "Openness" of Malagasy Pvt. Sector -  international norms
Expand foreign-local collaboration and foreign
direct investment (FDI)                        *   Firms expand continuing use    *   Annual survey ofassisted      *   Political stability, sound
of outside business services by at    firms (starting 1998)         macro-econ. policies, and
*   Improve Business Confidence and Govt./ Pvt.    least 20%. Pvt. assns. and                                           improved business environment
Sctr. Dialogue on Business Environment           business service providers                                          encourage pvt. investment and
expand activities by at least 20%                                   FDI
*   Business confidence rating
among firms expands at least    *   Sample survey of private       *   Broad pvt. sctr.
20%                               businesses (starting 1997)        representation achieved in CRC
* Effective Govt. participation
in CRC
Outcomes
*   Expanded output & productivity of assisted   *   No. of assisted firms posting    *   Annual survey of assisted   *   Malagasy pvt. sctr. commits
Malagasy firms                                   gains in output & productivity.    firms (starting 1998)             to opening economy to foreign
Volume & rate of growth.                                            investment and competition
*   Strengthened mgmt. & tech. capabilities of   *   No. of firms posting gains in    *   Annual survey of assisted    *   Malagasy SMEs recognize
assisted Malagasy firms                          capabilities - volume & rate of    firms (starting 1998)             need for business support services
growth.
*   Strengthened network of business services    *   No. of business services       *   Biennial survey of business    *   Improved image & info. of
providers posting gains in        services providers and            Madagascar in int'l. markets
*   Increased foreign-local collaboration contracts  activity and range of services.  associations (starting mid- 1998)
and volume of foreign investments              *   Majority of pvt. firms confirm   *   Sample survey of private    *   FASP Operational Manual
*   Govt./Pvt. Sctr. Dialogue contributes to        CRC as instrumental in adoption   businesses (starting 1997)        ensures transparency, competitive
improved business environment                    of at least 4 major reforms a                                        market basis of Capacity
*   Improved pvt. sctr. awareness of econ. policy   year                            *   Annual survey of assisted       Building Program
reform issues                                  *   Volume of FDI and f-I            firms (starting 1998)
collaboration expands 20% p.a.
Outputs
*   Private Sector Support Fund (FASP)      .    *   200 firms and 30 assns.       *   All outputs verified through    *   FASP attracts & retains high-
implements Matching Grant Fund for Firm &        assisted in 1997-99.               project progress reports and      caliber personnel - esp. DG
Assn. Capacity building                                                             audits.
*   FASP implements FDI Matchmaking Fund         *   30 f-I collaborations in 1997-                                    *   PSD Seminars Program sets
99 increase FDI by $30m. &                                          high standard for pedagogy -
*   Competitiveness Review Committee (CRC)         exports by $100m. p.a.                                               presenting differing viewpoints
dialogue identifies priority policy reforms    *    15 policy issues addressed by                                   *   Early implementation and
*   Private Seminars Program implemented           CRC p.a. in 1997-99, & 10                                           local leadership of institutional
recommendations made to Govt.                                       set-up for Cap. Building
*    16 seminars held in 1997-99                                      components ensures more
by Malagasy pvt. groups: 10 on                                      effective ownership and
policy issues and 6 on tech.                                        execution
issues
Activities                                       Inputs
*   Competent, locally-staffed FASP established  *   $7.6m. in IDA funds.          *   All activities verified through    *   Effective coordination with
and manages Capacity-building program                                               regular project monitoring        other donor programs (e.g..,
*   Capacity building activities contracted out to  *   $0.2m. in Govt. contribution.                                   EU/PRIDE) maximizes synergies
private providers                                                                                                    (retums), minimizes duplications
*   FDI Match-making activities by foreign and   *   S4.9m. in private sector
local investment brokers rewarded by MMF         contributions.
success fees
*   CRC creates working groups and commissions
studies (from local and int'l analysts) for dialogue
on reform issues
*   Pvt. sector groups organize and sponsor
seminars partly supported by Seminars Fund



___ _    ____        _ _________ _ ____ ____                                                                                              __ _ ___
MADAGASCAR
6JC,4a..7Ftt:  Programme de Privatisation des Entreprises Publiques                                                              1/4
Planning de Mise en Place du Cadre listitutionnel                                                 Projel 2 2/10/96
Qtr4, 1996        Qtr 1997          Qtr2 1997         Qtr 3 1997         Qtr 4 19
ID    Task Name                                             Dur        Start       Finish     Oct  NoviDec | Jan  Feb]Mar   AprMnay [                                        Nov
1    Mise en place du programme de privatisations          69.8w        10/1/96     1/30/98
2        Campagne de comrnunication                        69.8w        10/1/96      1/30/98
3             Poursuile de la phase 1 de la campagne de com   18w       10/1196       2/3197
4             Elaboration du dossier d'appel d'offre de l'agence 4w     10/1/96     10/28/96
5             Lancernent de t'appel d'offres el selection de l'ag  8w   11/4/96    12/27/96
6             Elaborationi du plan de la phase 2 de la campagn 4w      12/30/96      1/24/97
7            Approbation du plan de la phase 2             3w           1/27/97     2/14/97
8             Mise en oeuvre de ia phase 2 de la campagne    50w        2/17/97      1/30/98
9        Mise en place du Secr6tariat Technique            18w          10/1/96      2/3/97
10            Elaboration du Manuel de Privatisation        18w         10/1/96       2/3/97
11            Approbation AO pour election du Secrelaire Tech 1w        10/8/96     10/14/96
12            Selectioii et normirnation du Secretaire Technique  7w   10/15/96      12/2/96
13            Secretaire Techn prend ses fonctionls         Ow         12/23/96     12/23/96
14            Approb des modalites d'appel d'offres (arrGte)    3w     12/16/96       1/3/97
15            Approb du programme de privatisations (decret)  5w        12/2/96       1/3/97
16            DAO pour prequalification des Organes Techniqu 3w         10/1/96     10/21/96
17            Prequalification des Org Techniques          4w          10/22/96     11/18/96
18            Mise en place du Secretariat Technique       9w           11/1/96       1/2/97
'19           Secretariat Technique mis en place           Ow            1/3/97       1/3/97
20        Fonds de Portage et de Privatisalion             31.4w        10/1/96       5/7/97              .
Project Planning de Mise en Place du Cadre Institutionnie  Tche                             R6capitulalive                       Progr6s report6
Date 12/11/96                                           Avancernent                          Tache report6e
ConnIiie de Privatisatioii                              Jalon                                Jalon report6   (
AF 3lE3CiFdles03@DARICA\31t EEXCHVIA13A1\PLANNING MfIP                                                                                                          12/11/96 1I 03 AM



MADAGASCAR
Programme de Privatisation des Entreprises Publiques                                                            2/4
Planning de Mise en Place du Cadre Institutionnel                                                 Projet 2 2/10/96
_Qr4, 1996        Qtr 1 1997   T   Qtr 2, 19971]  Qtr 3, 1997            Qtrl4, 19
ID    Task Name                           D_           _     ur        Start       Finish     Oct Nov | Dec  Jan FFeb  Mar |Apr  May  Jun  Jul                         O
21            Elaboration de la convention de gestion       2w           10/1/96    10/14/96
22            Elaboration DAO pour la soc de geslion        4w           12/2/96    12/27/96
23            Selection de la socie(e de gestion            8w           1/2/97      2/26/97
24            N6gociation de la convention de gestion       4w          2/27/97      3/26/97
25            Mise en place du FPP                          6w          3/27/97       5/7/97
26            FPP operationnel                              Ow           5/7/97       5/7/97
27        Fonds Social el d'Aide au Dev Regional (FSADR)  30.2w        10/28/96      5/26/97          _          _
28            Elaboration du manuel de procedures          8w          10/28/96     12/20/96
29            Approbation de la convention de gestion type    4w       12/24/96      1/20/97
30            Selection de I'agent d'execution              6w          1/21/97       3/3/97
31            Negociation de la convention de gestion      4w            3/4/97      3/31/97
32            Mise en place du Fonds Social                 8w           4/1/97      5/26/97
33            Fonds Social operationnel                     Ow          5/26/97      5/26/97
34        Commission d'Arbitrage                            28w         11/4/96      5/16/97
35            Nomination de la Commnissioni d'Arbilrage    8w           11/4/96     12/27/96
36            Nonnninalrtoni du Secrelaire General de la Comirnis 4w   12/30/96      1/24/97
37            Mise err place la Conirinission              8w           1/27/97     3/21/97
38            ElablisserTenl de la liste des aibitres      8w           3/24/97     5/16/97
39            Comnmission d'Arbitrage operationnelle       Ow           5/16/97     5/16/97
40_       Relornies d'accoinpagnement                      20w          101          2/17/97
Prolect Plairiinig de Mise err Place du Cadre Institutiolinc  TAche                          R6capitulalive   _                   Piogr&s reporte
Dale 12/11/96                                           Avancenrefit                         Tachereporlte
Connile de Pnrvatisalnotr
Cor.iite de Ptivatisation            Jalon                                Jalon repore   O
AF31L 3@FnlesO3@AFRICA\31EEXClIl\f'AB\PLANNING MPP                                                                                                              12/11/90 11.03 AM



MADAGASCAR
Programrne de Privatisationi des Entreprises Publiques                                                                                314
Planning de Mise en Place du Cadre Instituitionnel                                                                   Prolet 2 2/10/96
Qtr419               Qtr 1, 1997           Qtr 2,1997            Qtr 3, 1997   ___Qtr 4, 19
ID     Task Namne                                                      Our           Start         Finislh       Oc      ov Dc    a           eb   Mar   Ar My Jun    Jul   AuNSpvc
41               Preparation des decrets modifiant les slatuts des  4w                 10/1/96       10/28/96           -
42               Modification des statuts des entr. publiques (decr 8w                12/24/96        2/17/97
43          Privatisation d'une enitreprise publique (taille moy  15w                   1/3/97        4/i 7197                                               p
44               Recrutement des organes techniques                     2w              1/3/97        1/16/97
45               Elaboration du DAO                                     5w             1/17/97        2/20/97
46               Lancement de l'appel d'otfres                         4w              2/2 1/97       3/20/97
4 7              Negociation du contrat de venite                       4w             3/2 1/9 7      4/17/97
48               Contral de cession sign                              Ow             4/17/97        4/1 7/97                                                4
________   _______ _______ ________ ________ _______ ________ ________ _______ _____  1. _______ _   ______ ____   -_ _ _ _ _ _   __ ________ ___--  __ _______ ________ _____   __ _______ ________ _   ___ __
Pfolect Planning de Mise eni Place du Cadre tsiuirie                Tbche                                       R6capitulative ~W                          Progres reporte
Date  12/1 1/96                                                    Aacmn                                       T61che reportte
Coinlte de Pmivatisatiorn                                           Jalon                                      Jalon reporle    K>
AF 3lE3@cFiles03@AFRICA\31EEXCH\FpAB\PLANNING MPP                                                                                                                                              12/11/96  11 03 AM



MADAGASCAR
Prograrnme de Privatisation des Entreprises Publiques                                                           4'4
Planning de Mise en Place du Cadre Institutionnel                                                 Projet 2 2/10/96
1 _   _^  _   _  7   |   Qtr 1, 1998     Qtr 2, 1998       Qtr 3 1998        Qtr4, 1998         Q Qtr 1, 1999
ID    Task Name                 _____                       Dur   |-  Start _   Dec_| Jan | Feb  Mar Apr LMay| Jun |ul]AugA                 | OcI  Nov  Dec   Jan IFeb  Mar
1    Mise en place du programme de privatisations          69.8w        10/1/96      _
2        Campagne de communication                         69.8w        10/1/96      _
3             Poursuite de la phase 1 de la campagne de com  18w        10/1/96
4             Elaboration du dossier d'appel d olfre de lagence 4w      10/1/96
5            Lancement de t'appet d'offres et selection de l ag  8w     11/4/96
6             Elaboration du plan de la phase 2 de ia campagn 4w       12/30/96
7            Approbation du plan de la phase 2             3w           1/27/97
8            Mise en oeuvre de la phase 2 de la campagne    SOw         2/17/97
9        Mise en place du Secr6tariat Technique            18w          10/1/96
10            Elaboration du Manuel de Privatisation        18w         10/1/96
11            Approbation AO pour Lleclion du Secretaire Tech 1w        10/8/96
12            Selection et nomination du Secretaire Technique  7w      10/15/96
13            Secrdtaire Techn prend ses fonctions          Ow         12/23/96
14            Approb des modalitls dappel doffres (arrele)    3w       12/16/96
15            Approb du programnme de privatisations (decrel)  5w       12/2/96
16            DAO pour pr6qualification des Organes Teclhniiqu 3w       10/1/96
17            Prequalification des Org Techniques          4w          10/22/96
18            Mise en place du Secretarial Technique       9w           11/1/96
19            Secretariat Technique mis en place           Ow            1/3/97
20        Fonds de Portage et de Privatisation             31.4w        1011/96
Project Planining de Mise en Place du Cade lnstitutionie  Tache                              R6capitutive   W                     Progi6s reporte
Date 12/11/96                                           Avancemenl                           Tache report6e
Coriite de Privatisation
AF3  3 _   _   _es3   _ FRI _\3   _X  _ PAB\LANNN __MP1Jal21 Jalon reporte                                               _                                            
AF3tE3(&iDF eS03@AFtRlCA\3lEEXCH\uPAB\PLANNlNG MPP                                                                                                              12/1 1196 11 03 AM
I     ~      -  . .                     .    -                                                                                        .-   _  . - .   .-



A" 3t -C - - -- t-- --
(Chart BI: MADI)AGASCA R: Priv:ate Ca p;city luiltling P'rogr.;in1
T  bl)e of Key activities, E'VAIIII.tioll Criteria, Performance I11(ficillors and liii)lementittion  I nletal)Ie
| __  _ ______ __   _   ___.___  1996  1   1997                              1998
0  Task Name                                                               T     Qtr4_r                                 Qt34                          Otr I    Qlr 2     OQt_r 3' fatr 4
2       Preparation of legal/organizational framework                                     --
3      Formal recognition by GOM
I      lImplernentation planning workshop                                                         9/10
S      TOR for first study                                                                        Li
i      Selection of consultant                                                                       l  _
I      Carrying out of study                                                                                 L
3      Validation of proposals by CRC                                                                              Li
Submission to authorities                                                                                   Li
0      Moniloring of adoption and implementation
1      Carrying out of remainder of work program                                                               - ____                       __                  __ _._  __ _     ___ .
2      Follow-up ZOPP                                                                                                                             12/5
3
4  P.S. Seminars
5      Preparation of seminar on role of Govt                                                                           [jJ
i      Conduct of seminar                                                                                                      6/15
7      Publicatiori and dissenlination of results                                                                             [0]
B      Establish program for first year
9      Preparation arid coinduct of 2nd seminar                                                                                     Li
Publication and disserninatiori of results                                                       .i
Preparation and conduct of 3rd seminar                                                                                                  Li
Task               [          _             _ Summary                            Rolled Up Progress
,le 12/11196                        Progress           C                     Rolled Up Task
Milesiolie                               Rolled Up Milestoile
Page I



Char-t It: MADIAG ASCA R: Virivalle Capaicilly litii(Iiiiig PI'ognainl
Table of Key activifies, Evaluation Criteria, Pet-forinance hIi(ficators and Iniliplenieniitatioo Tiiiietalihle
O  Task Name                                     -  DIr 1      DIr 2 ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~1996                     1997                                     1998      - O 
D_ak__n_Or1                                                                         (Jr2      01r 3  j 6rV 4 _ OQtrt--___Q tr1 ofr04             G---- -0I-F _tr2-_    , 3                0 
-2      Publicationi & dissemintationi of results--L                                                                                                                             dr3
.3      Carrying out of remainder of seminar program                                                                                                          i
'4
5 FASP
6      Preparation of legallorganizational framework
7      Recruitment of D.G.91
a      Implenmentation planining workshop                                                               91
9      Signature of authorizing decree91
O      Founding assembly
1      Operationalize FASP
2      Receive & process applics for support of business advisory service                                                         .        --       --
3      Follow-up ZOPP                                                                                                                                    1/
4
5 FDI Scheme
Coniduct pilot progratri                                                                                                          .-.
Develop proceduies for guafafitee luild
I  Contract executing agent for funid
3  Receive and process guararntee applicalionns
I  Receive arid piocess applications for paynietit ofn guarantees                                                                                    i-         
I  Develop eligibility criteria for nrnatchr.naking lurid
Installation ot friatcth-niakitig furid4/
T-ask                                      Suririnary                                Rolled Up Progress
ite                           Progress ~~IRolled Up Task
Milestlone                                 Rolled Up Milestone 
Page 2



AiltahneniiellX -3
Cliart BJ: MAI)A(GASCAR: Privallc Capaacity Iluildiig 1'rograil
Tablle of Key atctivities, Evaluation Criteri:i, Pei-formantace lijlicalojs auiid ImpIlemielnttioni Timetablc
1996                                   1997                                    1998
ID  Task Name                                                             4tr1     O(r1      Qtr2      0         0t                    3jrtr4    Q         l      r2 ra              Qtr4
43      Receive and process applications for match-making payments
Task                |                    Summary                                  Rolled Up Progress
ule 12111/96                         Piogress                  i               Rolled Up Task
Milestone                                Rolled Up Milestone O
Page 3






Madagascar: Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project          Attachment 4
Page I of 5
MADAGASCAR - PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Speeding Up Export Diversification Through Matchmaking Between Foreign and Local Firms
A.    Objective and Rationale
The objective of the matchmaking scheme is to build Malagasy firms' export capability by
facilitating collaboration between Malagasy firms and small and medium foreign partner firms. The
foreign partners are expected to provide external market access and production know-how, with or with
out investment finance, to the Malagasy partners.
Market Access - Given Madagascar's nascent manufacturing export capacity, one way to
develop access to external market networks, market information and production know-how is to promote
collaboration with foreign investors through foreign direct investment (FDI) joint ventures (JV),
international subcontracting agreements (SC), technical marketing agreements (T/MA) and turnkey
operations (TP). By providing the necessary know-how, these types of collaboration offer the best
opportunities for Malagasy partners to enter the world market as well as to acquire skills required for
exporting.
Recent World Bank studies have confirmed that foreign partners' lack of interest in collaboration
with local firms in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) stem primarily from imperfect market information on
export-oriented collaboration opportunities and the negative investment image in many African
countries. The matchmaking scheme would help address these constraints by giving incentives for
private matchmakers to use their information networks to bring together foreign and local firms in export
oriented ventures.
B.    Guidelines for the Matchmaking Fund and Matchmaking Fund Management
1.    Partnership Contract Performance - Based Fee Payment System
The key principle underlying the matchmaking fund (MMF) is the promotion of
Malagasy/foreign partnership contracts brokered by facilitators, remunerated under a performance-based
fee payment system. For this system to be successful partnership contract performance indicators must
be transparent, and provide the necessary incentive for effective contract implementation. The following
are key partnership contract performance indicators:
(a) JV or 100% FDI: Shareholders' total investment value;
(b) SC, TMA and TP: export earnings of the 12 months operation from the time exports begin.
(Besides being the key measure of success of nonequity partnerships, this performance
indicator is administratively simpler to monitor thani contract or subcontract orders/fees or
royalty payments.)



Madagascar: Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project            Attachment 4
Page 2 of 5
Matchmaker services are deemed to have been completed on:
(a) Finalization of a collaboration agreement between the foreign and Malagasy partner firms;
and
(b) Finalization of all administrative procedures required by the Malagasy authorities for the
approval and implementation of partnership contracts.
To qualify for MMF support in terms of the matchmaking fee, a team of foreign/Malagasy
matchmakers must have assisted the foreign and Malagasy partner firms. During project preparation the
matchmaking pilot scheme underlined the importance of Malagasy matchmakers in assisting (b) above.
2.    Key Aspects of Matchmaking Fee Payments
Success or failure of an export-oriented foreign-Malagasy enterprise matchmaking program will
depend on:
(a) fixing matchmaking fees at a optimum level to provide the necessary incentive to
matchmakers to maximize foreign/local collaboration;
(b) arrangements to share fee costs between the MMF and the foreign and the Malagasy
partners;
(c) timing of fee payments by MMF and the foreign and the Malagasy partners;
(d) administrative convenience.
Initial fee amounts will be based on experience in the pilot project and will be widely publicized
before the implementation of the MMF. Periodic reviews of MMF will, however, determine whether
these fees are effective in developing partnerships; and MMF Management will have the flexibility to
adjust these fees, within certain parameters, based on the periodic reviews.
3.     Optimum Level of Matchmaking Fees
The legacy of inward-oriented economic policies and isolation means that the Malagasy MMF
will not succeed unless there is strong collaboration between Malagasy and foreign matchmakers -
involving extensive business travel to initiate, identify and design potential partnership projects.
Lack of information on Africa, and in particular Madagascar, has resulted in very limited
exchanges with the outside world. Matchmakers must, therefore be given enough incentive to invest
their time and resources to carry out comprehensive business exchanges. The incentive should also take
into account time spent on consulting and intermediation, and the fact that a large proportion of
matchmaking attempts will not be consummated. Unless matchmakers feel that the advertised
matchmaking fees are reasonable enoughi to cover these costs, they will not undertake activities under the
MMF.
Based on available international data and the Malagasy context, it is recommended that MMF
Management offer the following initial level of matchmaking fees:



Madagascar: Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project          Attachment 4
Page 3 of 5
(a) FDI or JV: 6% of the shareholders' total investment value;
(b) SC, T/MA, and/or TP; 7% of the total 12 month export value from the time of the first
export under the partnership contract.
4.    Matchmaking Fee Payment Shzaring Arrangements
To ensure commitment by the beneficiary, while at the same time offsetting matchmaking costs
during an initial period (aimed at developing a competitive market in matchmakers); matchmaking fees
will be paid equally by the MMF (50%) and the collaborating Malagasy and foreign partners (50%).
For Malagasy and foreign partners in a JV, their 50% share of the matchmaking fee will be
assigned in proportion to their relative equity participation; while in SC, T/MA, or TP projects
matchmaking fees will be shared equally between Malagasy and foreign partners. (i.e. Malagasy and
5.    Maximunt Ceiling of Fee Payments by MMF
To ensure the efficient allocation of resources and encourage partnerships with a significant
number of Malagasy SMEs rather than a few large partnership contracts, the ceiling on MMF payments
for total matchmaking fee payments will be set at US$50 000. Malagasy and foreign partner payments
will not however be subject to a prescribed ceiling, but will be based on their willingness to pay
matchmaking fees, taking into account the agreed MMF cost sharing formula and MMF ceiling.
6.     Timing of Matchmaking Fee Payments
First Fee Payments by Malagasy and foreign partners should be made on presentation of
documentary evidence by the matchmakers demonstrating:
(a) investment has been completed for JV or FDI;
(b) completion of the 12 month export period since the first export under the partnership
contract for SC, T/MA, or TP.
Fee Payments by MMF Management is only made once there is documentary evidence that
Malagasy and foreign partners have made their fee payments. This sequence of matchmaking payments:
(a) promotes market-based matchmaking procedures;
(b) minimizes MMF Management's administrative burden, which is shifted to the matchmakers.
Limited advance payments in the form of travel costs may be given to assist matchmakers
(especially Malagasy matchmakers) in meeting their working capital matchmaking requirements. This
will be based on careful review by MMF Management - in collaboration with FASP Management - of
concrete matchmaking projects and will be financed by FASP and not MMF financial resources. Such
advances will be deducted from matchmaking fee payments, if the supported travel has led to partnership
contracts, preventing double dipping (see below).
A Written Matchmaking Fee Agreement between the Malagasy and foreign matchmakers must
be presented to MMF Management, preferably before matchmaking activities begin.



Madagascar: Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project           Attachment 4
Page 4 of 5
7.    Eligibility
Partnership types: 100% export-oriented FDI, JV, SC, T/MA and TP are eligible for MMF
support, but simple export/import contracts are not eligible.
Sectors: 100% export-oriented manufacturing, agro, forestry, fishery, mining, data processing,
and service industries are all eligible for MMF support.
Malagasy and foreign partners: Malagasy enterprises with at least 51%  of their equity
privately held or SME cooperatives in Madagascar and enterprises or SME cooperatives of any foreign
economy are eligible for MMF support.
Malagasy and foreign matchmakers need to be registered with the MMF Management to be
eligible for MMF support. Registration requirements for matchmakers are:
(a) a working knowledge of English or any other international business language (other than
traditional Malagasy business languages);
(b) familiarity with export-oriented FDI, JV, SC, T/MA and TP international operations and
related Malagasy rules and regulations (including building and expatriate labor work permits,);
(c) familiarity and contacts with the business community in a foreign economy (Malagasy
matchmakers) and in Madagascar (Malagasy and foreign partners);
(d) a well established good business reputation in their respective business communities.
(e) participation in matchmaker training schemes (Malagasy matchmakers).
To ensure that the MMF supports diversified export-oriented partnerships and not traditional
trading partnerships that would have occurred without MMF support, Malagasy and foreign
matchmakers must be registered with MMF Management before initiating any matchmaking activities.
Double Dipning will be prevented through close collaboration with the FASP. FASP financial
support for foreign travel of a Malagasy matchmaker, or inward mission of a foreign matchmaker, will
be deducted from the matchmaking fee payments by MMF in the event that a partnership contract is
concluded.
8.     Training of Malagasy Matchmakers
Training of Malagasy matchmakers will be one of the first tasks of MMF Management, whici
will focus on developing new matchmakers not previously targeted under the pilot program. An
orientation program will also be provided for all registered Malagasy matchmakers which will include:
(a) details of the matchmaking scheme and MMF Management Guidelines;
(b) orientation on Malagasy Government agencies' rules, regulations, and administrative
procedures for and to implement FDI, JV, SC, T/MA and TP partnership;
(c) orientation on international practices in FDI, JV, SC, T/MA and TP contract documents;



Mladagascar: Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project         Attachment 4
Page 5 of 5
(d) MMF management strategies in targeted countries.
9.    International Marketing of the Matchmaking Scheme
To stimulate interest from foreign matchmakers, MMF management will prepare and implement
an international marketing strategy using such tools as the media (Business Development), internet and
where appropriate the appointment of marketing agents in target countries.









IMAGING
Report No.: 6P 6874  MAAG
Type:    M6PTAW



