                             Document of
                          The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 26256

             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
      (PPFI-P8000; PPFI-P8001; IDA-29560; PPFI-P8800; PPFI-P8801)

                                 ON A

                                CREDIT

IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR17.2 MILLION (US$ 23.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                TO THE

                    REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR

                                FOR A

                  PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
                AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT




                               02/27/2003

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 1997)

                                    Currency Unit = Malagasy Franc (FMG)
                                           FMG 1 = US$ 0.000201
                                            US$ 1 = FMG 4,982.84

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1    December 31

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CIP          Independent Privatization Commission
CRC          Competitiveness Review Committee
EPZ          Export Processing Zone
ESAF         Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESN          Economic Strategy Note
FASP         Private Sector Support Fund
FAC          French Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération
FDI          Foreign Direct Investment
FID          Fonds d'lntervention pour le Développement
IDA          International Development Association
ILO          Industrial Labour Organization
ITPAC        Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit
MB           Ministry of Decentralization and Budget
MDSPPMinistry of Private Sector Development and Privatization
MF            Ministry of Finance and Economy
MMF          Match-Making Fund
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
OED          (World Bank) Operations Evaluation Department
PFP          Policy Framework Paper
PHRD         Policy and Human Resources Development
PSA          Private Sector Assessment
PSRDF        Privatization Social and Regional Development Fund
PSAC         Public Sector Adjustment Credit
PSSF         Private Sector Seminars Fund
PTF          Privatization Trust Fund
PVO          Private Voluntary Organization
SME          Small and Medium Enterprise
STA          Technical Secretariat for Adjustment
UNIDO        United Nations Industrial Development Organization
VAT          Value Added Tax



                                  Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
                       Country Manager/Director:     Hafez M. H. Ghanem
                         Sector Manager/Director:    Demba Ba
               Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Marie-Ange Saraka Yao

                                       MADAGASCAR
   PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P001555                                                      Project Name: PRIV SECT DEV & C.B.
Team Leader: Marie-Ange Saraka-Yao                                       TL Unit: PFG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 30, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: PRIV SECT DEV & C.B.                                     L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P8000; PPFI-P8001;
                                                                                                     IDA-29560; PPFI-P8800;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P8801
   Country/Department: MADAGASCAR                                                          Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (58%); General industry and
                            trade sector (42%)
                  Theme: Regulation and competition policy (P); State enterprise/bank
                            restructuring and privatization (P); Tax policy and administration
                            (P); Trade facilitation and market access (S); Export development
                            and competitiveness (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    10/19/1995                                        Effective: 10/13/1997              02/06/1998
   Appraisal:    10/08/1996                                            MTR: 08/01/1999                10/05/2000
    Approval:    05/29/1997                                         Closing: 12/31/2002               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/PRIME MINISTER'S OFFICE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Hafez M. H. Ghanem                             Michael N. Sarris
Sector Manager:                 Demba Ba                                       Thomas Allen
Team Leader at ICR:             Marie Ange Saraka-Yao                          Paul Ballard
ICR Primary Author:             Amadou Dem


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                 S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

Borrower Performance is Marginally Satisfactory.

Quality at Entry is rated Marginally Satisfactory by both QAG and the ICR..
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

General Background

3.1.1    Reforms implemented in Madagascar during the 1980s, with keen support of the World Bank and
the donor community, were brought to a halt between 1991 and 1994 due to a lack of consensus on the
development strategy among the leaders, and the resulting absence of dialogue between the Bank and
the Government. During this period Madagascar experienced political instability, and macroeconomic
policy guided by economic nationalism and active state intervention. As a result, economic growth
declined sharply with a stagnation of private investment, particularly foreign investment. Low economic
growth rate resulted in aggravated poverty. To break away from the vicious circle of poverty and low
growth, Madagascar was to adopt an ambitious program consisting in opening up the country and
liberalizing key sectors.

Original Objectives

3.1.2      As stated in the Memorandum of the President (MOP) of the International Development
Association (IDA) to the Executive Directors, dated May 1997, the overall aim of the Private Sector
Development and Capacity building Project (PATESP) was to support Madagascar's efforts to shift to a
higher private sector led growth path, in line with the Bank's country assistance strategy (CAS) discussed
by the Board in February 1997. The specific goals were to : (a) design and implement policy reforms in
the areas of market deregulation, demonopolization and competition, public enterprise divestiture, and
reform of the tax system to address major constraints to increase private investment, efficiency, exports
and job creation; (b) foster an improved government-private sector dialogue on competitiveness issues
to improve business confidence and government policy-making; and (c) strengthen capacities and skills
in Malagasy private firms and associations, through support for upgrading firm-level productivity and
business development services, through "opening up" of Madagascar's economy and private sector to
new private investment opportunities and technologies existing in world markets, and by encouraging
joint ventures between Malagasy and foreign private investors.

3.1.3     PATESP was one of the three pillars of Bank assistance in Madagascar: it focused on private
sector development whereas PAIGEP provided institutional support to improve economic management.
A third project, APEX, supported financial sector reforms. During a first phase of project preparation from
1994 to 1996, PATESP was the vehicle to attempt a PSD dialogue which was difficult to engage because
of a lack of consensus among the leaders. Indeed, the regime of President Zafy hesitated to implement
the right reforms which could have met resistance. Policy dialogue effectively started only after the
appointment of a new Prime Minister in May 1996, following a motion of no confidence in the
government. Dialogue further improved when President Ratsiraka won the elections in January 1997 and
appointed a reformist team more committed to push forward the adjustment program adopted in 1996. In
this context, in 1996, since the Bank reengaged with the government on a policy dialogue, the objectives
of the PATESP became much clearer. It was designed to accompany a comprehensive structural
adjustment program adopted in 1996 by the Government of Madagascar (GOM). The latter program
focused on key reforms to address critical bottlenecks: (i) improved allocation of resources to economic
priority items in the public expenditure program; (ii) privatization and/or liquidation of PEs; (iii) reform of
private investment incentives and regulations, and domestic competition policies; (iv) tax reform; (v)
banking sector reform, including divestiture of the state-owned banks; and (vi) liberalization of petroleum
product prices and markets. The laws facilitating the implementation of the reforms were approved by
the National Assembly in August 1996. A Policy Framework Paper (PFP) which spelled out the reforms
was supported by two Bank's Structural Adjustment Credits (SAC I and II), and an IMF Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility, approved in November 1996. The improved dialogue allowed a better
identification of the structural adjustment measures to be specifically supported by PATESP. PATESP
ended up providing technical assistance for these programs which were complementary. From
preparation to project implementation, the focus of PATESP effectively improved and narrowed to the


                                                       - 2 -

privatization/liberalization of key sectors supported by SAC II.

3.1.4 SAC I, approved and disbursed in March 1997, successfully contributed to the improvement of the
macroeconomic framework and supported measures aimed at: (i) putting in place a framework for
transparent privatization, (ii) setting the stage for complete state withdrawal from the banking sector, and
(iii) stimulating private investments through the removal of legal monopolies in key sectors.

3.1.5       The objective of SAC II was to stimulate a private sector led growth and to reduce poverty by
supporting reforms in four areas: (i) macroeconomic stabilization, (ii) private sector development, (iii)
liberalization and privatization of major public enterprises in key sectors (telecom, air transport and
petroleum), and (iv) public finance reforms. In particular, PATESP was the primary vehicle to provide
technical assistance required for (ii) and (iii).


3.2 Revised Objective:

      The increased focus of PATESP did not require a revision of the objective to support Madagascar's
effort to shift to a higher private sector led growth path.


3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1      The Project was designed to provide technical assistance for studies, implementation, and
training, in addition to material and equipment support required to carry out two programs as described in
the MOP: (a) economic policy reforms, and (b) private sector capacity building.

Economic Policy Reform Program

3.3.2        Project coordination responsibility for this program was with the Ministry of Private Sector
Development and Privatization. The program included three components: (i) Market liberalization and
private sector incentives reforms; (ii) public enterprises divestitures; and (iii) tax system and tax
administration reform.

3.3.3        Market Liberalization and Private Sector Incentives Reform. Specific responsibility for
implementing this component was delegated to the Competitiveness Review Committee (CRC), the
Technical Secretariat for Adjustment (STA), or the concerned line Government Agency.This component
aimed at removing impediments in the business environment to stimulate efficient private investment,
including Foreign Direct Investments (FDI). The principal reform measures to be designed and adopted,
in accordance with the 1996-98 Policy Framework Paper (PFP), identified for support were: (a)
simplification of company registration procedures; (b) removal of state and public enterprise monopolies
and establishment of pro- competitive regulatory frameworks, where needed, in major economic
activities, including telecoms, petroleum, air transport, sugar, wheat flour, cotton ginning and marketing,
raw meat, oil seeds, coastal shipping, ports, water supply, insurance; (c) mining sector liberalization, and
mining code reform to encourage expanded private investment and exports in a potentially major sector
of the economy; (d) conclusion of double taxation avoidance treaties with at least 20 FDI-source
countries to encourage expanded foreign private investment; (e) simplification and strengthening of
appropriate regulations (e.g., in forestry and fishing) to support expanded, environmentally sound private
investment and exports.


3.3.4.      Public Enterprise Divestiture Program. This component, which was to be implemented by the
Privatization Committee and the Privatization Secretariat, was designed to provide support for
preparation, implementation and performance monitoring of the Government's renewed privatization
program, by funding in part the set up of the privatization agency, preparation and execution of
divestiture transactions for individual Public Enterprises (PEs), design and adoption of pro-competitive



                                                       - 3 -

sector regulatory frameworks and demonopolization measures as needed, as well as the creation and
operation of key elements of the overall regulatory and institutional framework for privatization. The
divestiture program was planned to be implemented in three phases over five years (1997-2002), with
the privatization or liquidation of 120 industrial and commercial PEs. A decree presenting the list of PEs
to be divested in the first phase was published in April 1997. Although 46 PEs were earmarked for
divestiture in this first phase of the program, a major focus of PATESP turned out to be on a small
number of large PEs dominating major sectors, among which, Air Madagascar, RNCFM (railroad),
SECREN (ship building and repair), SOLIMA (petroleum), ADEMA (airport management), HASYMA
(cotton ginning and marketing), SIRAMA (sugar production), SINPA, SOMACODIS, COROI (trading),
TELMA (telecommunication) and CMN (coastal shipping).

3.3.5    Under the program, the project would also finance the setting up of a share warehousing scheme
through the creation of a privately managed Privatization Trust Fund (PTF) which would hold minority
shares in the privatized PEs pending their sales to company personnel, the Malagasy public and
enterprises as well as institutional investors. The project was also aimed at supporting the setting up of a
Privatization Social and Regional Development Fund (PSRDF) to enable mass involvement and popular
support to the privatization program by providing amounts of credit and training to support grass-roots
level self-employment projects. The PSRDF, funded with a share of net privatization proceeds, would
support retrenched workers, rural and urban poor as well as unemployed graduated. Finally, the project
also planned to support a PE employee Retraining Fund (PASERP) to provide redeployment and training
need to retrenched workers. PASERP was the implementing unit for the activities related to the social
dimension of the divestiture program.

3.3.6      Tax administration reform.Responsibility for implementing the tax administration reform was
given to the General Directorate of Fiscal Resources of the Ministry of Budget. The purpose of the
component was to support the Government's strategy to address key weaknesses in the tax system.
More specifically, during a first phase (18-24 months), the support consisted in: (a) modernizing the
Value Added Tax (VAT) system; (b) rehabilitating tax administration; and (c) strengthening of the
customs administration, and in the second phase: (d) simplifying and improving taxation of small firms;
and (e) improving corporate taxation.


Private Sector Capacity Building Program

3.3.7   The program included four components: (i) Private Sector Fund; (ii) Improve Government/Private
sector dialogue; (iii) Private sector seminars program; and (iv) FDI Match-Making scheme.

3.3.8   Private Sector Support Fund (FASP). The executing agency of this component was the FASP, a
grouping of 24 professional associations. The component consisted in providing partial funding,on a
matching grant basis,for a broad range of business development services to Malagasy small and
medium firms and business associations to foster productivity. FASP was designed to act as a catalyst
and intermediary between firms and associations of the private sector that need assistance, and local
and international suppliers of business services.

 3.3.9     Improved Government/Private Sector Dialogue - Competitiveness Review Committee (CRC).
The CRC was responsible for implementation of its program, with administrative support from FASP.This
component aimed at supporting the activities of the CRC, created in September 1995, with the mandate
to: (a) identify and analyze policy and other business environment constraints to private sector
competitiveness; (b) develop detailed proposals for policy change; and (c) submit these proposals for
consideration by the highest levels of Government through the Prime Minister's Office.

3.3.10     Private Sector Seminars Program .The project was to fund a three-year program of seminars
on private sector development-related economic policy issues, on technological, marketing and
management trends in global markets, and on domestic market developments. The program, managed
by FASP, was to be conducted on a demand-driven, participatory basis, with partial cost-sharing by
participants and sponsoring groups.The seminars would involve a representative cross-section of public



                                                     - 4 -

and private sector participants, as well as representatives of Parliament, NGOs and the labor unions.
The purpose of the seminars was to encourage public/private sector dialoque to jointly identify and find
practical solutions to public policy impediments to private sector activities. This component also planned
to fund study tours organized on a selective basis to expose Malagasy private sector and other
participants to good practices abroad, both in policy reform, technology developments and firm
upgrading.

 3.3.11     FDI Match-Making Scheme. The purpose of the Scheme, managed by the FASP, was to
promote FDI inflows to Madagascar. It was designed to address lack of information (on business
potential in Madagascar) in prospective FDI supplying countries, by providing performance-based
incentives to private business brokers to use their existing information networks to stimulate
export-oriented joint ventures between local and foreign firms. The scheme would initially focus on
building market-based contacts and collaboration between Malagasy private investors and small and
medium scale foreign firms. As the manager of the scheme on a contract basis, FASP would also
encourage the creation of a commercial market for this type of service, and further training to strengthen
the pool of local private investment brokers.


                         Table 1: Project Original Components and Costs (US$ million)
                                                                  Local   Foreign    Total
                  Economic Policy Reform Program                  9,584    8,260    17,844
                  Privatization and PE Divestiture Program        7,947    6,310    14,257
                  Tax System and Tax Administration Reform        1,437    1,650    3,087
                  Investment Incentives Reform                    200      300       500
                  Private Sector Capacity Building Program        6,115    6,569    12,684
                  Comité de Réflexion sur la Compétitivité        638      620      1,258
                  Private Sector Seminars Program                 540      306       846
                  Fonds d'Appui au Secteur Prive                  3,315    4,677    7,992
                  FDI Match-Making Scheme                         1,622    966      2,588
                  Project Monitoring and Audits                   360      315       675
                  Refund of PPF Advance                           850      1,150    2,000
                  Total Base Costs                               16,909   16,294    33,203
                  Price and Physical Contingencies                1,184    1,140    2,324
                  Total Costs                                    18,093   17,434    35,527




3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1     The two programs that the project aimed at supporting were maintained. However several
modifications, which did not require formal amendments to the Development Credit Agreement, were
introduced in 1998, during the early stage of project implementation as a follow up to the quality at entry
review carried out in December 1997 by the Quality Assurance Group which concluded to reduce the
number of components of the project.

3.4.2 The "tax reform" component was closed in 1998 for the following reasons. First, the closing was
recommended by the Bank's team, as the Quality Assurance Group deemed that the project was too
complex and lacked focus. Second, given the enhanced policy dialogue between the Government and
the Bank at the time, it was recommended to sharpen the focus on the liberalization and privatization
program in support of SAC II. Third, the tax component, subject to a disbursement condition, required
agreement on the implementation and staffing of a pilot unit ("Centre Fiscal Pilote des Entreprises",
CFPE) to improve revenue collection among Madagascar's largest enterprises. During credit
negotiations, it was agreed that, among others, an improved system of incentives bonuses linked to tax
collections will be adopted for CFPE staff. Over a period of eighteen months, not only there were



                                                           - 5 -

pressure from vested interests but also agreement on the remuneration of the staff could not be reached.
Therefore, the disbursement condition could not be fulfilled. This led, during a supervision mission in July
1998, to the decision to close the component after consultation with the Deputy Prime Ministry
responsible for the budget, and the IMF (it was initially planned that the Fiscal Affairs department of the
IMF would supervise this component). The amount initially budgeted for the tax reform component was
reallocated to the "Public Enterprise Divestiture" program. It should be noted that although the tax reform
component was dropped, the IMF ultimately supported the government in streamlining the VAT
legislation, a key element of the fiscal reform.

3.4.3    The "FDI match-making scheme" component was, during the supervision mission of July 1998,
modified and folded into the activities of the matching-grant scheme. This was based on a review of the
operation and impact of the pilot scheme carried out in 1996/97 which indicated: (a) that the program had
resulted in negligible joint venture activity between Malagasy and Asian foreign investors; and (b) there
was little likelihood of "investment brokers" ever mobilizing to claim the "bonus" provided for under the
Credit, given the long lead time between joint venture conception, and successful export. This was also
in line with QAG recommendations to sharpen the focus of the project. The funds were reallocated to
FASP.

3.4.4 The "Private Sector Seminars" component was also closed to sharpen the focus of the project and
the amount initially budgeted for its implementation were reallocated to FASP.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1      Quality at entry was reviewed and rated as marginally satisfactory by the Bank's Quality
Assurance Group. It was felt that the project was complex, too ambitious and lacked focus. The scope of
some of its components such as the divestiture program was too large. The complexity was enhanced
with the need to support several components while the capacity in the main implementing units had to be
built and/or considerably strengthened.

3.5.2    In retrospect, the Quality at entry was indeed marginally satisfactory when the following
consideration are taken into account. The project objectives were consistent with the CAS objectives
and, as they were broadly defined, allowed to use PATESP as a flexible vehicle to provide assistance to
the adjustment programs and be responsive and adapt its focus to the context and circumstances. The
project risks were clearly identified for all components but the risk mitigation mechanisms proposed were
not always appropriate. To illustrate, although the decision to appoint an independent privatization
committee to prevent government interference in the process was commendable, it initially delayed the
implementation of the divestiture program as key line ministers wanted to control the divestiture process.
This obstacle was then overcome by the appointment of an interministerial privatization committee with
involvement of key line ministries to provide technical backing and support. Similarly, in the tax reform
component, the pressure of vested interests was underestimated and the proposed action plan was
difficult to implement. Finally, it should be noted that there was no logframe designed at the time of
project preparation. Instead, a comprehensive set of performance indicators was proposed but they were
not always realistically measurable within the timeframe of PATESP given the lagged effects of the
project on the performance of the different sectors directly supported.




4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The outcome of the project is satisfactory as the overall project objective of supporting Madagascar
efforts to shift to a higher private sector led growth path has been achieved: between the periods
1994-1997 and 1998-2001, the average real GDP grew from 1.8 percent to 4.8 percent. Between the



                                                    - 6 -

same periods, the average share of private investments in GDP increased significantly from 4.7 percent
to 8.2 percent following an upward sloping trend line. The greater contribution of private investment to
the economic performance can also be illustrated by the decline in the public/private investment ratio
although public investments also considerably progressed. The average ratio dropped from 1.23 to 0.97
again during the same periods. FDI has been a driving force of this performance. Indeed, FDI inflows
sharply increased from $14 million to $112 million dollars between 1997 and 2001 as the result of (i)
increased foreign investors and activities in the export processing zone (EPZ), and (ii) foreign
participation in the divestiture process. On the latter, it is estimated that the divestiture of SOLIMA
contributed to about 9% of the amount of FDI inflows in 2000. The magnitude of the contribution of
PATESP, as a technical assistance project to this performance is difficult to quantify. Within the
structural adjustment framework, the project contributed to stimulating private sector led growth through
its support to the preparation and implementation of liberalization and divestiture program, and the
provision of direct business development services to local firms particularly in the EPZs to improve
productivity, quality and export prospects. PATESP was satisfactory because of its contribution to the
success of SACII.


 Table 2: Key macroeconomic indicators
                                         1994   1995     1996      1997   1994-97 (*)   1998   1999   2000   2001   1998-01(*)
Real GDP (Annual % changes)              -0.1   1.7       2.1      3.6         1.8       3.9    4.7    4.8    5.9      4.8
Public Investment (In percent of GDP)    4.5    4.9       6.8      6.5         5.7       7.9    6.9    8.7    8.1      7.9
Private Investment (In percent of GDP)   3.9    3.6       4.9      6.3         4.7       6.9     8     8.3    9.7      8.2
Public/Private Investment ratio          1.15   1.36     1.39      1.03       1.23       1.14   0.86   1.05   0.84    0.97
Net private FDIs (in million US$)         -       -        -        14          -        16     58     70     112      -

  (*) Arithmetic average
  Sources: World Bank, Word Development Indicators and Global Development Finance, 2003.
                 IMF, Recent Economic Development and Selected Issues, 1997 (for 1994 data).



4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1       Economic Policy Reform Program

a)          Market Liberalization and Private Sector Incentives Reforms

This component is rated highly satisfactory on the basis of significant results achieved in the business
environment and liberalization in key sectors. On the business environment side, companies registration
procedures have been simplified mainly with the creation of the "Centre de Facilitation de Création des
Entreprises" in 1999. It contributed to improving access to information required to create a company, and
to limiting administrative procedures. As a result, there is now only four agencies in the investor's road
map to register a company compared to ten in 1999. Company registration now required only five days
while work permits can be obtained within fifteen days. A survey conducted by the Bank to assess the
perception of investors on the business environment indicated that 62 percent of the interviewees
consider that procedures for the obtention of work permit and visa are more flexible.

On the liberalization side, the measures designed for the liberalization of the mining sector were carried
out. This contributed to facilitating the implementation of a Bank's supported Mining Sector Reform
Project approved in June 1998. From then, PATESP, with the enhanced adjustment dialogue, shifted its
focus on the key sectors under the umbrella of SAC II, namely Telecom, Petroleum and Air transports
sectors which were the cornerstones of the liberalization program . Significant results were achieved with
the liberalization of these three key sectors. The results are presented below while the divestiture
process of the specific companies is described in section (b).

In the telecom sector, a legislation and application decrees were passed to encourage new entry in all



                                                              - 7 -

segments of the telephone sector (cellular, fixed, internet, etc.) and the capacity of the regulatory
authority, OMERT was strengthened in the areas of monitoring and licensing. The mobile segment was
rapidly liberalized. By July 2000, OMERT issued four cellular licenses with international access and
gateway to Telecel/Intercel, Antaris, Madacom and Sacel. As a result, mobile teledensity rapidly
increased from 0.03 percent in 1997 to 1.29 percent in 2002. Average international tariffs for the main
traffic destinations from Madagascar considerably declined. The number of privately managed public
phone centers ("espace telecom") also rapidly increased from 20 in 1996 to about 200 in 2002. OMERT
also issued in November 2001 a license to Gulfsat to provide VSAT-based rural telephony in eleven
localities. The public phones are now installed and operational in these localities. Finally, OMERT issued
nine autorizations to Internet Service Providers. Ultimately, four are operational, DTS (France
Telecom/TELMA), Blue Line (Gulfsat), Simicro and Orchid System. They are currently serving about
12,000 subscribers. By contrast, in the fixed telephony segment, where the public incumbent, slated for
privatization, was the only player fixed teledensity improved only from 0.28 percent in 1997 to 0.4
percent in 2002.

In the petroleum sector, to complement the 1996 petroleum law, secondary legislation pertaining to
competitive licensing award, technical standards and gradual price adjustment were passed. Assistance
was provided to the newly set up regulator OMH, "Office Malgache des Hydrocarbures", for the licensing
procedures.The monopoly of the national petroleum company was broken into seven private companies
in operation in various segments of the market (distribution, logistics, refinery, transport, aviation). This
created an environment conducive for entry of international oil majors in the sector. More specifically,
four companies are now competing in the distribution of petroleum products and invested an estimated
$14 million to enhance the distribution network and to move towards a greater compliance of
international standards. To date, at least 50 percent of the gas stations in the country meet these
standards. Currently, prices are reflective of international market conditions.

In the Air transport sector, a liberalization law dated 1997 and a series of application decrees passed in
1999 were instrumental in opening the sector to new entrants. A civil aviation authority ACM was set up
to oversee the sector liberalization. The non-regular air transport sector has been liberalized resulting in
an increased number of charters since April 1999, and substantial tariff reduction. To illustrate, the
charter ticket from Antananarivo to Paris is now offered at 50 percent off regular prices. Domestic air
transport has also been liberalized. In the regular international air transport segment, competition has
increased with a new regular operator CORSAIR, currently offering tariff 75% lower than the other
regular aircarriers. As the result of these changes, the average annual air traffic growth rate reached 20%
between 1999 and 2001. Between 1997 and 2001, the number of tourists grew by 69% to reach 170,000,
while foreign exchange receipts from tourism increased by 70% (source: IMF, "Selected Issues and
Statistical Appendices", 2003). It should be emphasized that these positive developments cannot be
attributed to a depreciation of the Malagasy franc since, throughout the period, the nominal effective
exchange rate remained stable.

b)       Public Enterprise Divestiture Program

This component is rated marginally satisfactory because of the partial completion of the divestiture
program as envisaged during preparation. 46 PEs were earmaked for divestiture during the first phase of
the privatization program. Although PATESP provided technical assistance for the design of privatization
strategies for 35 companies, a particular focus was put on the implementation of TELMA, SOLIMA and
Air Madagascar in line with the priorities of SAC II. The major developments of the latter three
companies are presented further below. The status of the divestiture program is presented in annex 8.

Between project effectiveness in 1998 and project closing in 2002, transactions were fully completed for
17 companies out of which, 10 were liquidated. It is important to note that the political turmoil of 2002
also partly explained the delay in the implementation of the divestiture program. That say, privatization
receipts radically increased from 0 to $16 million between 1997 and 2001 to represent 3.4 % of total
GOM revenue (IMF, 2003). As a transfer tracking system was not set up as agreed during project
negotiations in 1997, it is difficult to estimate the amount of savings on subsidies allocated to PEs and
the impact of the divestiture program on GOM fiscal position. A recent Country Financial Accountability


                                                      - 8 -

Assessment (CFAA) led by the Bank in March 2003 noted that few of the direct transfers from treasury to
the companies were abolished and capacity of the relevant services of the treasury are still weak to
monitor the financial situation of the PEs.

                              Table 3: Progress in divesting major companies

                                                                                  Planned                            Current Status
        Air Madagascar (airline)                                       December 1998                   Management Contract (21 months)
        ADEMA (airports management)                                    December 1998                   Concession strategy adopted
        CMN (coastal shipping).                                        February 1999                   Liquidated
        COROI (trading)                                                July 1999                       Negotiations ongoing
        HASYMA (cotton ginning and marketing)                          July 1999                       Completion privatization strategy ongoing

        RNCFM Nord (railways)                                          April 1999                      Concessionaire selected in 2001 (a)
        SECREN ( shipbuilding and repair)                              September 1999                  Privatization strategy to be adopted
        SIRAMA (sugar production)                                      April 1999                      Completion privatization strategy ongoing
        SINPA (trading)                                                July 1999                       Negotiations ongoing
        SOLIMA (petroleum marketing and distribution)                  November 1998                   Petroleum lot complete
        SOMACODIS (trading)                                            September 1999                  Complete
        TELMA (telecommunications)                                     March 1999                      Negotiations ongoing

      (a) Part of the investmenst are being financed on concessional terms by the Bank transport project, APL 2.


TELMA
For the Telecom company, the final privatization strategy was approved in December 1999.
Implementation of the strategy required an extensive and complex inventory of assets and titles
regularization for 258 land and building sites. This complexity resulted from the fact that at inception of
Telma, assets originated from various ministries and private parties were never titled, hence the delay in
completing titles regularization. The bid documents to invite telecom operators to buy a controlling share
of the company were launched in June 2001 and a winning bidder, DISTACOM (Hong Kong), was
selected in December 2001. However, negotiations were interrupted by the 2002 crisis and resumed only
in October 2002. A new due diligence is currently being carried out to reflect the change in
circumstances and the possible effects on the company assets.The final negotiations are expected to be
concluded in the second semester of 2003 with technical assistance from a follow-on Private Sector
Development project (PSD II), which became effective in 2002.

SOLIMA
Restructuring and initial preparation for SOLIMA divestiture were supported by the Petroleum project.
Given the premature closing of the latter project, PATESP provided tehnical assistance in the form of
financial advisors, sector specialists, legal and regulatory framework experts and environmental
specialists to bring the transaction to closure. The privatization strategy was adopted in September 1998
and involved the unbundling of the company to enhance competition. The company was broken down
into twelve companies for distribution, refinery, logistic, aviation and non petroleum assets (hotels,
buildings, etc.). The bids were awarded in 1999 and "protocole d'accords" were signed thereafter
outlining the due diligence process before contract signing. During the course of the due diligence
process, significant delays occured as the result of: (a) incomplete identification and regularization of
assets; (b) GOM's delay in implementing the adopted gradual prices adjustment mecanism intended to
bring prices in line with worldmarket prices; (c) extreme pressure from vested interests groups within the
company including employees refusal of the proposed social plan and (d) delay in launching a baseline
environmental audit due to its high cost combined with the lack of resources of the regulatory agency,
"Office Malgache de Hydrocarbures (OMH)". The transactions of all the petroleum lots, which were the
focus of SAC II, were concluded between 2000 and 2001 (aviation, four distribution companies, maritime
transport, refinery and logistic company). The logistics lot was the last contract signed in October 2001: a
few titles still need to be regularized before the corresponding remaining sale receipts are paid. In the
non petroleum lots, the hotels and several buildings were sold. The titling of the remaining buildings are



                                                                                - 9 -

being clarified.

Air Madagascar
 For Air Madagascar group, a first privatization strategy involving a majority sale of shares for Air
Madagascar and TTAM on one side and SOFITRANS (catering and groundhandling) was adopted in July
1998. Implementation was delayed for the following reasons: (a) lengthy negotiations with Paris Club,
EXIMBANK and GoM to finally reach, at the end of 1999, an aceptable treatment of the buy-back debt
mechanism of the Boeing 747 financed by Eximbank; (b) vested interest pressure within the company
and its subsidiaries especially in "Transports et Travaux Aériens de Madagascar" (TTAM) and "Société
Financière pour le Développement du Transport et du Tourisme" (Sofitrans) to authorize the sale of its
shareholding. The bids were finally launched and one bid was received in December 1999 from a
grouping of the main competitor and regional companies which GoM decided to refuse. The relaunching
of the strategy was initiated in 2000 and its implementation was sidetracked by two main factors: (a) the
opening by Air Madagascar of new lines to Singapour and the engaging in investments which
significantly deteriorated the situation of the company; and (b) declining worldwide conditions in the air
transport markets as a result of a world recession with large losses from potential bidders (market exit of
Swissair, Sabena) and the collapse of the market in the wake of September 11 events. In the end, in
August 2002, to restructure the company, improve its performance and face the financial turmoil
exarcerbated by the political crisis, the new GOM decided, without going through a competitive bidding
process, to sign a 21-months management contract with Lufthansa consulting. In November 2002, GOM
and Air Madagascar's creditors reached and agreement on a debt restructuring mecanism.

 4.2.2 Private Sector Capacity Building Program

 a)      Private Sector Fund (FASP) - Matching Grant

This component is rated highly satisfactory as the development objectives of strengthening capacities
and skills in Malagasy private firms and associations has been achieved.

An independent survey conducted in November 2002 found that business advisory services provided by
FASP significantly improved their productivity. FASP received 1.532 requests for assistance on a
matching-grant basis out of which, 809 were approved. The approved projects represented a total
amount of $US5.9 million. FASP financed 66 percent of this amount. Although there were no quantifiable
targets defined during project preparation given the innovative nature of the scheme in Sub-Saharan
Africa, it can be noted that the survey indicated that 83 percent of the beneficiaries stressed the valuable
support of FASP, 75 percent of the managers have acquired useful management skills, 47 percent of the
firms would not have launched their project without FASP support. FASP also played a key role at the
launching of the African Growth Opportunity Act (signed into law in May 2000) in supporting Malagasy
firms through provision of services to meet US markets standards such as product quality. This
contributed to the doubling of exports of textile to the US in 2001. Also, to support joint-ventures between
Malagasy firms and US firms, FASP provided advisory services for the launch of the US-Madagascar
Business council, a partnership under the leadership of Corporate Council of Africa, a major association
of US firms promoting American investment in the region.

  FASP was also instrumental in setting up and spreading the International Organization for
Standardization (ISO) norms for quality and environment, and in promoting the accounting standards.
Training program has allowed to train 27 auditors to ISO 9000 (quality), 45 consultants to ISO 14000
(environment) and 30 auditors to IASC (accounting). It contributed to strengthening the local consulting
industry as 60 percent of the consultants used were Malagasy.

b)       Government/Private Sector Dialogue - Competitiveness Review Committee (CRC)

This component is rated marginally satisfactory. The CRC helped create a consultative process between
the private sector and the Government which was fruitful during the discussion of key economic items
such as taxation reform, corporate legislation, competition. CRC was also instrumental in leading the



                                                     - 10 -

agenda of business reform identified in the FIAS report and disseminating an assessment of the benefits
for Madascar to join the SADC while keeping its membership in COMESA. The original structure of the
CRC has been totally replaced under the new government, but it ultimately contributed to launching a
consultative process involving the private sector, civil society and the broader public-private partnership
forum. The effectiveness of CRC was however very often impeded by difficulties encountered in
identifying keys issues to be discussed. Also, the Comittee was not influential enough to push forward,
for Government approval, keys measures discussed and adopted by its members.




4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The overall economic rate of return was not estimated at appraisal. It should be noted that even if an ex
ante rate of return was calculated, it is likely that it would have been overestimated since the project was
found to be too ambitious. Anyway, economic benefits were expected from the divested PEs, the tax
reform, the private sector matching grant scheme and the FDI match-making. The incomplete
implementation of the divestiture program, the closures of the tax reform, and the FDI macth-making
scheme would have certainly render difficult the achievement of the rate of return objective of the base
case scenario.



4.4 Financial rate of return:
  NA

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1    The institutional development impact is considered as substantial as the capacities of the main
implementing units (Privatization Secretariat, FASP) as well as the relevant regulatory agencies
(OMERT, ACM) have been considerably strengthened not only through training and learning by doing but
also through interaction with international expertise.

4.5.2    In the case of the PASERP, the change in its mandate from manager of the retraining scheme to
manager of the whole social dimension of the divestiture program, including the activities designed under
the Privatization Social and Regional Development Fund (PSRDF), turned out to be overwelming.
Although capacity of PASERP has been built, it remains to be further strengthened to adequatly address
the challenge of the social dimension of privatization. At project closure, a total of 2256 workers from 24
companies have been retrenched. Of the 1573 workers eligible to the project support, 52 percent
received a reinsertion fund. This is below the initial target of 75 percent. The impact on retrenched
human resources benefiting from PASERP-funded retraining program cannot be assessed at this stage
since there is no tracer study available. Besides, PASERP became fully operational only in 2000, after
completion of major divestiture transactions that resulted in retrenchment (SOLIMA). The assessment
will be more comprehensive under the follow-up PSD II project which also allocated resources to
PASERP for the retraining and reinsertion program.

4.5.3    The impact of the privatization trust fund on the promotion of local ownership cannot be
assessed at this time. The decree creating the Privatization Trust Fund (PTF) was passed during
PATESP preparation. The strategy for share distribution (eligibility criteria for companies, maximum
percentage share to distribute, distribution mechanism through the local banks and secondary market)
was developped, but the need to rapidly operationalize the fund was not justified given the relatively
small amount of shares that could have been transferred. The follow-on PSD II project is continuing to
support the PTF. The shares from the privatized PEs (SOLIMA and SODIP), which now amount for $7
million, will be transferred as soon as a Fund manager is hired and the fund become fully operational.




                                                       - 11 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

 Four major factors have affected implementation and outcome:

(i) First, vested interests have been opposed to privatization in the early stage of project implementation.
To illustrate, in May 1999, strikes were organized to protest against possible job cuts that would result
from the divestiture of SOLIMA;

(ii) Second, the U.S. African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA), which came into force in early 2001,
has contributed to stimulating textile export, especially from the EPZ sector;

(iii) Third, global economic slowdown, the aftermath of September 11 as well as the deteriorated
investors'confidence with the expectations of extended war on terrorism have also certainly impacted the
implementation of the privatization program and discouraged FDI;

(iv) Fourth, political and social crisis throughout the first semester of year 2002 following the Presidential
election of mid-December 2001, caused severe recession, deteriorated investors' confidence and stalled
project implementation. The crisis critically weakened the financial position of most private and public
enterprises, including those slated for divestiture.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

(i) The dismissal of the Head of the Privatization Secretariat in October 1997 delayed project
implementation as credit effectiveness was postponed to February 1998, four months after project
launch, to give enough time for the recruitment of a new Privatization Secretary acceptable to IDA and
for the adoption of other measures to resolve fundamental privatization implementation problems
identified. Those measures were: (a) the modification of the Privatization Committee to include key line
ministers; (b) the publication of a decree to facilitate the adoption by the Privatization committee of
conservatory measures deemed necessary to efficiently implement the privatization program; and (c) the
recruitment of an international expert to strengthen the Privatization Secretariat.

(ii) During the early stage of project implementation, the launching of the divestiture program was
delayed due to insufficient political will for the privatization of strategic PEs. This was however timely
tackled as key line ministers became more supportive of privatization after their inclusion in the
Privatization Committee to better control the process.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

There were no majors factors subject to the control of the Privatization Secretariat or FASP. The
relatively slow implementation of the divestiture program was mainly due to the complexity of the
transactions. PASERP performance is below expectations but this is due to insufficient capacity following
the expansion of its mission and the political crisis of 2002. However, for CRC, the weak performance,
can partly be explained by the unability of its members to push forward, for adoption by the government,
the measures discussed and adopted within the Comittee.


5.4 Costs and financing:

   Original cost of the project was estimated at preparation at 35.5 million including IDA credit of 23.8
milllion. The Government and the Private Sector were to finance the gap. At project closing, 97% of the
total IDA credit has been disbursed. Several reallocations of funds have allowed the financing of the cost



                                                     - 12 -

overruns for the Public Enterprise Divestiture program and the Private Sector Support Fund.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

 Sustainability is likely as the liberalization and privatization reform of key sectors have laid a foundation
for private sector led growth. If these had not taken place, the pace of recovery of the Malagasy
economy after the crisis would probably have been slower. To illustrate, despite a 70 percent drop in
traffic in 2002 due to the crisis, the air traffic has increased back to 2001 levels. The liberalization
measures adopted under PATESP were implemented and continue to be implemented. To illustrate
again, the new Government, committed to push forward the liberalization agenda, recently announced its
intention to put two main airports under concession.

During mid-term review in November 2000, early gains from the reform program were apparent. At the
same time, a cost overrun was anticipated mainly due to: (a) the transfer of a bulk of preparatory
activities required for the divestiture of SOLIMA to PATESP from the unsuccessful and prematurely
closed Petroleum Sector Reform project which was aimed at preparing the liberalization of the sector; (b)
the need to finance an extensive environmental audit of more than 400 sites which could not be financed
by the Petroleum Project and (c) long delay in the preparation of the Transport Sector Reform and
Rehabilitation project resulting in the decision to transfer the divestiture of the railways (RNCF Nord) to
PATESP. To capitalize on the PATESP gains achieved so far and address the possible lack of financial
resources, it was decided to prepare a follow-on PSD II project, which was approved in August 2001 and
became effective in November 2002. PSD II is intended to continue the support to the completion of
transactions and to the Privatization Secretariat. It is also supporting PASERP, the Privatization Trust
Fund, OMERT and OMH while ACM is being strengthened under an ongoing transport project.

The results in terms of efficiency improvement for FASP-supported SMEs achieved under the capacity
building program, are sustainable. Initially, the new government upon arrival decided to close the FASP
and to bring into one single umbrella all the business development services activitites. Since December
2002, GOM has redefined its priorities and initiated discussion with the Bank to reactivate the Fund.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The capacities of the implementing units were strengthened but not sufficiently enough to move to
regular operations. This partly justified the follow-on project.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

World Bank performance in identification, preparation and appraisal was marginally satisfactory as the
original design of the project turned out to be complex specially in line with the need to build capacity
overtime.

Coordination with the IMF, which approved in 1996 a three-year Structural Adjustment Facility aimed at
supporting structural reforms including divestiture and tax reforms was good. It was agreed that the IMF
would supervise the "Tax reform" component of PATESP. During preparation, coordination with the
Bank's SAC I was excellent. In line with the Bank's evolved approach of privatization and to take into
account lessons from the implementation of structural adjustment programs (SAPs), the importance of
having a SAP complemented by a technical assistance especially designed to support the privatization
program was emphasized. Coordination with the Bank's Petroleum Sector Reform Project, approved in
July 1993 and closed in December 1998, which, among others, aimed at SOLIMA's restructuring and



                                                      - 13 -

corporatization, was fair. After period of uncertainty on the appropriate sharing of responsibilities, it was
agreed that the Petroleum project would focus on building the regulatory framework while PATESP
would deal with the divestiture transaction. The lessons learned during the implementation of the
Petroleum project were taken into account.


7.2 Supervision:

The Bank performance in supervision was satisfactory. There were on average 2.5 missions per year.
The Task leader changed only one time after the project became effective. Implementation problems
were quickly identified and timely addressed. There were no considerable delays in responding to
request for non objection and the Bank very often provided guidances on procurement matters to the
implementing units which did not always follow the Bank's procurement procedures due to lack of well
trained staff. Procurement clinics were also organized to explain required procedures and guidelines.

The Bank was proactive and timely decided to narrow its scope without altering its core objective of
stimulating private sector led growth. In that sense, focus quickly shifted to the privatization program
component to better grasp and tackle issues that would delay the structural adjustment process that SAC
II was aimed at supporting. Joint missions were regularly organized with the SAC II. The team timely
proposed solutions and provided advices for arising problems. On the privatization agenda, the Bank
insisted on the need to develop active communication campaigns, strengthen the regulatory framework
prior to divesting, emphasized the need to take sufficient time to prepare a divestiture transaction to
maximize chance of succes and, insisted in the effective application of the decree authorizing the
Privatization Committee to adopt conservatory measures required to ensure a transparent privatization
program. The Bank also stressed the importance of a timely implementation of the social safety net
measures; and, to enhance GOM's credibility especially during the early stage of implementation of the
privatization program, advised against GOM majority shareholding (as proposed in the initial
privatization strategy for TELMA) and discouraged use of golden shares (for example initially proposed
for SOLIMA's refinery) when national security is not at stake.




7.3 Overall Bank performance:

     Based on the remarks above, the Bank performance is satisfactory.




Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

 The borrower performance during preparation was marginally satisfactory. During the early stage of
project preparation which was launched in May 1994, GOM was not committed to implement meaningful
reforms as economic nationalism was still a key characteristic of the country. There was no effective
policy dialoque with the Bank. Dialogue really started only in May 1996 with the appointment of a more
reformist prime minister. It was then enhanced during preparation of SAC I which provided a clear
structural adjustment framework in which the role of PATESP was better defined.

Consistent with its 1996 Policy Framework Paper, which laid out its private sector development strategy,
GOM, during project preparation, involved high level government officials to reflect its development
objectives. The commitment to liberalization and private sector development were clearly stressed in the
Letter of PSD Policy delivered to the Bank in May 1997. GOM also participated in project design and
involved relevant stakeholders. Indeed, participatory approach was ensured with the private sector



                                                   - 14 -

working group created in 1995 which actively contributed to the design of reforms deemed appropriate to
accelerate effective implementation.




7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1    Government's performance is marginally satisfactory. Although GOM included key reforms
proponents, pressure from vested interest and political interference caused delays in the decision making
process. Indeed, at project launch and prior to credit effectiveness, the independent Privatization
Committee and Secretariat, tasked to implement the privatization program did not have the political
backing of GOM. Although GOM was committed to divest, Parent Ministries of enterprises to be
privatized did not want to give up their powers to an independent implementation agency. This was
manifested, during the early stage of project implementation, by strong political interference and
Government's refusal to enact the necessary conservatory regulations that would give the Privatization
Committee the right to approve: (a) the sale and acquisitions of all new assets; and (b) all labor
agreement, with particular reference to the determination of redundancy package in all enterprises to be
privatized or liquidated. This undermined the work of the Privatization committee and Secretariat and
jeopardized the success of the program by: (a) a possible uncontrolled process of asset striping and (b)
discouraging private sector buyers in the cases where enterprises have contracted high levels of medium
to long term debt in the acquisition of assets and/or reached overly generous redundancy agreements
with labor.

7.5.2    To enhance political backing of the privatization program, and this even before the credit
became effective, GOM, committed to accelerate the program, stressed the need to include in the
Privatization Committee key Government members.                Four Ministers became members of the
Committee. By January 1998, GOM adopted specific measures not only to meet the conditions required
for credit effectiveness but also to improve the management of the privatization process.               These
measures were: (a) the request for proposal for the recruitment of the head of the Privatization
Secretariat, and (b) the enactment of a decree authorizing the Privatization Committee to adopt the
conservatory regulations mentionned aboved. Other measures adopted were: (a) request for proposal for
the recruitment of an international expert in privatization to strenghten the Privatization Secretariat and,
(b) the formation of task forces between the Privatization Committee and the relevant Ministries. The
GOM also started the privatization process for key public enterprises including TELMA and SOLIMA.

7.5.3    It should be aknowledged that it was difficult to strike a balance between the right decision
making and the political interference as illustrated by the transparency issue which broke out in SOLIMA
divestiture. Indeed, a selected winning bidder of a distribution lot was substituted by its subsidiary in early
2001 without carrying out an in-depth analysis as required prior to approval of such substitution. The
substitution was authorized by the Privatization Committee, which, it should be reminded was the
political bridge between the Government and the Privatization Secretariat.

7.5.4    Overall, GOM was committed to implement PATESP and timely disbursed its contribution to the
required financing. Decrees and measures required to create and operationalize FASP and PASERP
were timely adopted. In line with its structural adjustment program, pro-market measures were adopted,
for the telecommunication, petroleum and air transport sectors. Indeed, these sectors were considerably
liberalized and independent regulatory agencies were created prior to launching the divestiture program.
The implementation of the divestiture program was delayed due to the complexity of the transactions.
The delay was accentuated by the political crisis during the first semester of 2002.

7.5.5    Finally, as noted earlier, it should be noted that GOM failed to set up a transfert (between GOM
and the PEs) tracking system as agreed during negotiations. This renders difficult the assessment of the
impact of the divestiture program on the fiscal position.




                                                    - 15 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:

  Overall, performance of the implementing agency is marginally satisfactory


 a)      Privatization Secretariat (PS)

The performance of the PS was marginally satisfactory. At project launch, the PS recruited competent
national personnel but lacked access to international privatization experience. It was then quickly
strengthened with privatization advisors for the 46 enterprises earmarked for divestiture, a legal advisor
for the overall program, an international public relation agency in charge of promoting the program to the
public and the investors, and an international financial expert. An international privatization expert was
also recruited to assist the Privatization Committee and the PS to reorganize their activities and clearly
define their responsabilities and to provide advice on complex technical issues. Following the
transparency issue related to SOLIMA transaction, management of the privatization process was
questionned and the Bank recommended not only a review of all privatization transactions completed for
the company, but also a better professionalization of the Privatization Secretariat and a redefinition of
roles between the Privatization Committee and the Privatization Secretariat. To improve the
implementation of the divestiture program, the PS was fully restructured and the Head of the PS was
replaced in 1998, as a condition for effectiveness of PSD II.


b)       FASP, PASERP and CRC

Performance was highly satisfactory for FASP and marginally satisfactory for PASERP. While the staff
of FASP was competent and sufficient, PASERP lacked capacity to effectively implement its program
especially after its mission was revised in April 1999. Indeed, PASERP was initially only designed to
implement the reinsertion program (decree no. 97/1242). In April 1999, a new decree widened its mission
to also include the management of the social programs, the supervision of social management of PEs to
be divested, and the negotiation with labor unions. FASP effectively carried out its mission of building
capacity in SMEs while PASERP was able to provide full assistance (reinsertion fund allocated, training
provided) to only 52% of the retrenched workers. Finally for both implementing units, detailed progress
reports of good quality were timely produced.

CRC performance is rated marginally satisfactory. As noted earlier, CRC was instrumental in leading the
agenda of business environment reform identified in the FIAS report; but the Comittee was not really
successful to push forward, for Government approval, keys measures discussed and adopted by its
members.

In general, for PATESP, there was no rigorous budget management allowing a sound comparison of
planned and actual expenses required to take the appropriate corrective measures. The reason being the
imperfect flow of information between the Project Coordinating Unit and the implementing units. With
respect to procurement, it was found during post procurement reviews conducted by the Bank, that the
implementing units did not always follow the Bank's procedures due to lack of well trained staff. It should
however be emphasized that the Project Coordinating Unit was initially designed to handle all the
procurement issues. Therefore, there were no staff especially assigned to the handling of procurement
matters in the implementing units. More specifically, for the Privatization Secretariat, there was no
procurement specialist to handle complex procurement issues during the early stage of project
implementation. He was only then hired. Finally, there were no major problems with the audits of the
project accounts and progress reports were timely completed.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:




                                                    - 16 -

The overall Borrower performance is marginally satisfactory. Meaningful sectoral liberalization reforms
were realized, major divestiture transactions reached an advanced stage of completion, effective
capacity was built in SMEs and associations, and a fair commitment was demonstrated to implement
project's components. However, political interference and delays in adopting appropriate measures
affected implementation of the privatization program.

8. Lessons Learned


 The following main lessons can be drawn from the implementation of PATESP:

(i) A Technical Assistance project should not be prepared and carried out without being integrated in a
well defined reform program. PATESP was being prepared in a context where there was no sustained
policy dialogue with the Government and no clear reform program which spelled out the priority sectors
to be supported. This resulted in a lack of focus of the project which was then revised to better
complement SAC II.

(ii) To ensure a rapid, positive and sustainable impact, a liberalization and divestiture program aimed at
adjusting the structures of the economy should be more focused on key underperforming sectors and
public enterprises. The appropriate regulatory and institutional frameworks should be timely strengthened
to enable fair competition aimed at enhancing overall economic welfare.

(iii) If political commitment to divest is strong, the Privatization Committee does not have to be
independent and should include line ministers who need to be given, to some extent, the control of the
divestiture process. However, the roles and responsibilities of the Privatization Committtee and the
Privatization Secretariat need to be clearly defined and agreed.

(iv) Project costs, including supervision costs, for complex and comprehensive technical assistance
project such as PATESP should be carefully estimated. The complexity of PATESP required intensive
supervision which was underestimated during project preparation. Since divestiture of major companies
can take more than eighteen months even if political commitment is strong, realistic deadlines for
completion of divestiture transactions should be more rigorously defined in agreement with the Bank, the
borrower and the relevant staff of the PEs to be divested. Time and resource necessary for land and
asset titles regularization should be carefully estimated especially when there is a wide geographic
dispersion of the different entities of PEs to be divested. To illustrate, for TELMA, collection and
regularization of titles were required for 258 land and building sites.




9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The contribution from the Government is included in annex 9.

(b) Cofinanciers:
n.a

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n.a

10. Additional Information



                                                    - 17 -

- 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate


- Higher private sector led growth                                         - Between the periods 1994-97 and 1998-01,
                                                                           the average real GDP grew from 1.8 percent
                                                                           to 4.8 percent.

                                                                           - The average share of private investments
                                                                           in GDP increased significantly from 4.7
                                                                           percent to 8.2 percent between the periods
                                                                           1994-97 and 1998-01.

                                                                           - Public/private investment ratio declined from
                                                                           1.14 to 0.83 between 1998 and 2001.

                                                                           - FDI inflows sharply increased from $14
                                                                           million to $112 million dollars between 1997
                                                                           and 2001.




Output Indicators:
                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate


TAX REFORM AND INVESTMENT
INCENTIVE COMPONENT

- More efficient tax and custom administration

- Revised tax code

- Integration of the investment code in the
general tax code

- Simplified and more transparent procedures

- Private sector information campaign                                                COMPONENT CLOSED

- Duration of "bail emphyteotique" on land                                 The tax reform component was not
extended to 99 years and bail made                                         implemented since the disbursement
mortgageable                                                               condition could not be fulfilled and agreement
                                                                           to close the component to sharpen the focus
- Free access to land ownership for                                        of the project was reached in 1998. However,
foreigners investing in specific sectors                                   the VAT legislation, a cornerstone of the
                                                                           fiscal reform, was streamlined with the
                                                                           support of the IMF.




MARKET LIBERALIZATION
                                                                           - Three majors sectors were successfully
- Key sectors liberalized                                                  liberalized (Telecom, Air transport and
                                                                           Petroleum)




                                                        - 19 -

                                                            - OMERT issued four licenses for mobile
                                                            telephone; a license to a private operator for
                                                            the provision of VSAT- based rural telephony
                                                            in 11 localities; and nine autorizations to
                                                            Internet Service Providers.

                                                            - Liberalization of non regular air transport
                                                            (charter)

                                                            - Seven companies are now operating in the
                                                            liberalized petroleum sector. Four companies
                                                            are involved in the distribution of petroleum
                                                            products.




PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM
COMPONENT




- Establish/Implement Privatization                         - 17 enterprises fully divested (10 liquidated).
component - Number of privatized                            Full divestiture of SOLIMA is near
enterprises-Average size of PE divested                     completion. Significant progress was made in
(sales in US$ million)                                      the divestiture of TELMA, COROI, CMN,
                                                            SOLIMA, SINPA, RNCFM Nord,
                                                            SOMACODIS. Divestiture of petroleum lot of
                                                            SOLIMA is complete. A 21-month
                                                            management contract was signed in August
                                                            2002 to restructured the ailing Air
                                                            Madagascar.



- Number of foreign strategic partners                      - 15 foreign strategic investors investing in
investing in privatized PEs (by year 2003/04)               privatized PEs.
/ Volume of related FDI.
- Improved level and efficiency of public                   TELECOM SECTOR
services due to private management / delivery               -Mobile teledensity rapidly increased from
                                                            0.03 percent in 1997 to 1.29 percent in 2002
                                                            - The public phones are now installed in the
                                                            11 selected localities.
                                                            - Number of privately managed public phone
                                                            centers ("espace telecom") increased from
                                                            20 in 1996 to about 200 in 2002.

                                                            AIR TRANSPORT SECTOR
                                                            - 20% average annual air traffic growth rate
                                                            between 1999 and 2001.
                                                            - Between 1997 and 2001, the number of
                                                            tourists grew by 69%, while foreign exchange
                                                            receipts from tourism increased by 70%
                                                            (Source: IMF, Selected Issues and Statistical
                                                            Appendices, 2003).

                                                            PETROLEUM SECTOR
                                                             Comprehensive assessment of performance
                                                            of the sector cannot be done in this early
                                                            stage of post-privatization. However, an
                                                            estimated $14 million have been invested by
                                                            the private operators to improve the
                                                            distribution networks.


- Establish/Implement privatization trust fund              - PTF is still not fully operational due to
& Privatization social fund                                 insufficient number of shares to be




                                                  - 20 -

                                                            transfered. Liquidation has been the most
                                                            common method of divestiture. The Fund
                                                            Manager is to be hired under PSD II.



- Number of transactions involving transfer to              10 transactions including 7 related to the
local shareholders and to the privatization                 divestiture of SOLIMA
trust fund


- Value of shares in PTF (US$ million).                     - The value of shares that should be
                                                            transfered to the PTF as soon as it become
                                                            operational and the divestiture of SOLIMA is
                                                            complete and privatization receipts are paid is
                                                            about $7 million (from SOLIMA and SODIP).


- Establish/Implement PE transfers tracking                 - The transfer tracking system was not set
& control system - Reduced/eliminated net                   up. The CFAA noted that some companies
transfers to PEs and losses as a % of                       earmarked for divestiture are still receiving
public expenditures and bank credit.                        subsidies from GOM. However, a few of the
                                                            direct transfers from treasury to the
                                                            companies were abolished (there were no
                                                            more transfer lines to companies like Air
                                                            Madagascar).
                                                             It should also be noted that privatization
                                                            receipts radically increased from 0 to $16
                                                            million between 1997 and 2001 to represent
                                                            3.4 % of total GOM revenue (IMF, 2003).



- Establish/Implement PE redundancy &                        Only 52% of the eligible 1573 retrenched
re-employment scheme                                        workers have received their reinsertion fund.
                                                            This is below the target of 75%.


- Establish/Implement public awareness &                    - An independent consultant effectively
communication campaign                                      implemented the communication campaign
                                                            and carried out two surveys. The results of
                                                            the survey of the general public in 2000 show
                                                            that 40% of the surveyees believe that
                                                            privatization is a good tool for economic
                                                            development; only 27% are against
                                                            privatization. The results of the survey of the
                                                            workers of PEs to be divested indicate that
                                                            93% of the surveyees have heard about
                                                            privatization; 88% of them know PASERP;
                                                            56% agreed that PASERP can effectively
                                                            trained the workers for professional
                                                            reinsertion; 49% disagreed that PASERP
                                                            help to find a new job.


- Number of transactions concluded through                  100%
competitive bidding acceptable to WBG.



BUSINESS SERVICES AND DIALOGUE
SUPPORT COMPONENT


- Enhance Private Sector performance -                      - FASP has contributed to the enhancement
Accelerated growth of exports, output,                      of Private Sector performance - 27% of the
productivity, investment of assisted Malagasy               surveyed exporting firms have increased their
firms                                                       exports on average by 137%.
                                                            - 18% of the surveyed firms increased their
                                                            investments on average by 209%.
                                                            - Output has increased by 54% on average
                                                            for 42% of the surveyed firms.




                                                  - 21 -

- Enhance private business infrastructure -               - 83% of the beneficiaries stressed the
Strengthen (a) Malagasy private firms'                    importance of FASP.
management & technical capabilities, and (b)              - 75% of the managers have acquired useful
business support services                                 management skills.
                                                          - 60% of the consultants used were
                                                          Malagasy.
                                                          - FASP provided training for 27 auditors to
                                                          ISO 9000 (quality), 45 consultants to ISO
                                                          14000 (environment) and 30 auditors to IASC
                                                          (accounting).




- Competitiveness Review Commitee (CRC)                   - CRC was instrumental in leading the
dialogue identifies priority policy reforms               agenda of business environment reform
                                                          identified in the FIAS report.

                                                          - The Comittee was not influential enough to
                                                          obtain Government approval for keys
                                                          measures discussed and adopted by its
                                                          members.




- Private sector seminars implemented                     - The private sector seminars components
                                                          was not implemented.


1End of project




                                                - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                  Appraisal    Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                  Estimate      Estimate           Appraisal
                        Component                                 US$ million   US$ million
ECONOMIC POLICY REFORM PROGRAM
 Privatization and PE divestiture Program                           14.30
 Tax System and Tax Administration Reform                            3.10
 Investment Incentives Reform                                        0.50
PRIVATE SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING
PROGRAM
 Comité de Réflexion sur la Compétitivité                            1.30
 Private Sector Seminars Program                                     0.80
 Fonds d'Appui au Secteur Privé                                      7.90
 FDI Match-Making Scheme                                             2.60
Project Monitoring and Audits                                        0.70
Refund of PPF Advance                                                2.00

Total Baseline Cost                                                 33.20             0.00
 Physical Contingencies                                              1.20
 Price Contingencies                                                 1.10
                          Total Project Costs                       35.50             0.00
                   Total Financing Required                         35.50             0.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                            1
                                                    Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB               NCB                   2       N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                       Other
1. Works                              0.00              0.00             0.00           0.00           0.00
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                              0.99              0.00             0.18           0.21           1.38
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
3. Services                           0.00              1.62            14.03           7.97          23.62
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
4. FDI Match-Making Fund              0.00              0.00             1.20           1.20           2.40
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Operating Expenses                 0.00              0.00             2.20           1.60           3.80
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
6. PPF Refund                         0.00              0.00             2.00           0.00           2.00
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
   Total                              0.99              1.62            19.61          10.98          33.20
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
Notes: Operating Expenses include miscellaneous expenses such as office supplies, utilities, etc.
        All costs are net of duties and direct and indirect taxes.
        NBF means non-Bank financed.



                                                    - 23 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00             13.53             0.00             13.53
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (7.82)            (0.00)           (7.82)
   4. FDI Match-Making Fund                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Operating Expenses                    0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. PPF Refund                            0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.00               0.00             13.53             0.00             13.53
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (7.82)            (0.00)           (7.82)

    1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
ECONOMIC POLICY                13.60                                 13.60                               100.0
REFORM PROGRAM
 Privatization and PE          11.50                                 13.10                               113.9
divestiture Program
Tax System and Tax              1.60                                  0.00                                0.0
Administration Reform
Investment Incentives           0.50                                  0.50                               100.0
Reform
PRIVATE SECTOR                  7.60                                  7.60                               100.0
CAPACITY BUILDING
PROGRAM
Comité de Réflexion sur la      0.80                                  0.80                               100.0
Compétitivité
Private Sector Seminars         0.30                                  0.00                                0.0
Program
Fonds d'Appui au Secteur        5.30                                  6.80                               128.3
Privé
FDI Match-Making                1.20                                  0.00                                0.0
Scheme




                                                           - 24 -

- 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              May 1994                   8    BUSINESS LAW SPECIALIST
                                              (2), PSD SPECIALIST (1), TAX
                                              POLICY SPECIALIST (2),
                                              TRADE AND EXPORT
                                              POLICY SPECIALIST (1),
                                              REGULATORY POLICY
                                              SPECIALIST (2)
              July 1995                10     TEAM LEADER (1),
                                              ECONOMIST (2), FINANCIAL
                                              ANALYST (1), INDUSTRIAL
                                              ECONOMIST (1), PSD
                                              SPECIALIST (3),
                                              REGULATORY POLICY
                                              SPECIALIST (1), OPERATION
                                              ANALYST (1)
              September 1995             5    TEAM LEADER (1), PSD
                                              SPECIALIST (1), FDI
                                              PROMOTION SPECIALIST (1),
                                              FISCAL ECONOMIST (1),
                                              OPERATION ANALYST (1)
              December 1995              6    TEAM LEADER (1), EXPORT
                                              PROMOTION SPECIALIST (1),
                                              ECONOMIST (1), PSD
                                              SPECIALIST (2), OPERATION
                                              ANALYST (1)
              February 1996              4    TEAM LEADER (1),
              (Pre-appraisal)                 ECONOMIST (2), OPERATION
                                              ANALYST (1)
              July 1996                  4    TEAM LEADER (1), EXPORT
              (Pre-appraisal)                 PROMOTION SPECIALIST (2),
                                              PSD SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              October 1996               5    TEAM LEADER (1), PSD
              (Appraisal)                     SPECIALIST (3), EXPORT
                                              PROMOTION SPECIALIST
                                              (1)
              April 1997                 8    COUNTRY DIRECTOR (1),
              (negociations)                  TEAM LEADER (1), LAWYER
                                              (1), ECONOMIST (2), PSD
                                              SPECIALIST (1), COUNTRY
                                              MANAGER (1), PORTFOLIO
                                              MANAGER (1)

 Supervision
              07/11/1998                 3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            U               U



                                               - 27 -

                                            PSD SPECIALIST (1);
                                            INFORMATION ANALYST
                                            (1)
               09/25/1998              4    TEAM LEADER (1);                     S     U
                                            PRIVATIZATION (2); CIVIL
                                            AVIATION (1)
               12/07/1998              3    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                            PRIVATIZATION (2)
               04/03/1999              3    TEAM LEADER (1); CIVIL               S     S
                                            AVIATION (1);
                                            PRIVATIZATION (1)
               07/31/1999              2    TEAM LEADER (1); PSD                 S     S
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
               12/02/1999              3    AIR TRANSPORT SPEC. (1);             S     S
                                            INFRASTRUCTURE SPEC. (1);
                                            TEAM LEADER (1)
               03/08/2000              1    TEAM LEADER                          S     S
               07/05/2000              2    TEAM LEADER (1);                     HS    HS
                                            TELECOMS SPECIALIST (1)
               03/05/2001              7    TEAM LEADER (1),                     S     HS
                                            PRIVATIZATION SPECIALIST
                                            (1), ENVIRONMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1), ENERGY
                                            SPECIALIST (1), LAWYER (1),
                                            OPERATION SPECIALIST (1),
                                            ECONOMIST (1),
               06/04/2001              4    TEAM LEADER (1),                     S     HS
                                            PRIVATIZATIONSPECIALIST
                                            (1), ECONOMIST (1),
                                            ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
               9/17/2001               1    TEAM LEADER (1)                      S     HS
                                            No Mission due to Political crisis   U     S
               07/15/2002              5    TEAM LEADER (1), SECTOR              S     S
                                            MANAGER (1), ECONOMIST
                                            (2), PROJECT FINANCE
                                            SPECIALIST (1)

 ICR
               April 2003             1     CONSULTANT (1)                       S     S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             112                            226.4
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    20                             66,0
  Supervision                              93                           220,6
  ICR                                     4.5                              5,3
  Total                                229.5                            518,3




                                            - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

- Bank performance at lending is marginally satisfactory.
- Government implementation performance is marginally satisfactory.
- Implementation agency performance is rated marginally satisfactory.




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


- Memorandum of the President of the International Development Association to the Executive Directors,
May 1997.
- Development Credit Agreement
- Missions Aide Memoire
- IMF, "Selected Issues and Statistical Appendix", January 2003
- World Telecommunication Development Report, International Telecommunication Union (ITU),
December 2002.




                                                  - 31 -

Additional Annex 8. Divestiture Program Status (November 2002)




                                         - 32 -

                                                Regulatroy  Request for
                                Audit  Strategy Framework   Proposals   Negotiation Complete     Method of Divestiture


  Agriculture / Agroprocessing
1 AAA
2 AFM                                                                                                Sale of assets
3 ANM                                                                                                Sale of assets
4 BCL                                                                                                 Liquidation
5 FAMAMA                                                                                              Liquidation
6 FEB                                     
7 FESA                                                                     
8 FEV                                                                      
9 FIFAFABE                      na        na       na          na          na         na
10 HASYMA                                 
11 KAFEMA                                 
12 LANSU                                                                                              Liquidation
13 PPHA                                                                    
14 SICE-DARRIEUX-SEVIMA                                                    
15 SIRAMA                                          
16 SOAMA
17 SOAVOANIO
18 SOMAPALM                                                                                           Liquidation
19 SORIMA
   Industry
20 FORESTRAX
21 SECREN                                 
22 SIB                                                         
23 SOCOMI                                                                                                Other
24 TOLY                                                                               
25 TORGINOL                                                                           
   Mining
26 MAGRAMA
27 SEVMACAM                               
28 SOMADEX                                                                                            Liquidation
   Pharmaceutical
29 SODIP-SOPRAEX                                                                              Liquidation / Sale of shares
   Petroleum
30 SOLIMA                                                                  
   Service
31 RINDRA                                                                                             Liquidation
32 SERDI                                                       
   Telecommunication
33 TELMA                                                                   
   Trade
34 COROI                                                                   
35 ROSO                         na        na       na          na          na         na
36 SINPA                                                                   
37 SOMACODIS                                                                                 Sale of shares / Sale of assets
   Transport
38 ADEMA                                           
39 AIR Madagascar                                              
40 ARS                                                                                                Liquidation
41 CMN                                                                                                Liquidation
42 FIMA                                                                                               Liquidation
43 RNCFM Nord                                                              
44 RNCFM Sud
45 SMTM
46 SOFITRANS                                                   



                                                         - 33 -

- 34 -

Additional Annex 9. Contribution du Gouvernment


I - Présentation du projet PATESP


1.1. Historique


Dans les années 1988 à 1993, Madagascar a entrepris son premier programme de privatisation et de
liquidation portant sur une quarantaine d'entreprises publiques de taille petite ou moyenne avec quelques
problèmes d'exécution. cependant, les EP's commerciales et industrielles restantes représentent encore
une part importante dans la production de l'économie moderne, dont une vingtaine dominent des
secteurs clés comme le transport aérien, le secteur pétrolier, les télécommunications, l'adduction d'eau,
l'électricité, les chemins de fer ou les mines, freinant ainsi l'entrée de nouveaux investisseurs privés dans
les activités dans ces secteurs, alors que leur contribution économique est faible en raison de problèmes
de gestion et d'insuffisance d'investissements.

Dans le cadre général du renforcement des structures de l'Economie Malagasy et conformément au
Document Cadre de la Politique Economique (DCPE) en date du 18 septembre 1196, le Gouvernement
a initié une série de mesures, parmi lesquelles la mise en oeuvre du projet d'Appui Technique au Secteur
Privé (PATESP).

La négociation a eu lieu à Antananarivo du 28 avril au 01 mai 1997 suivi de la présentation au BOARD
le 29 mai 1997 et l'accord de crédit pour un montant équivalent à dix sept millions deux cent mille en
Droits de Tirages Spéciaux (17.200.000 DTS) a été signé le 14 juillet 1997.

Le PATESP est donc un projet gouvernemental sous tutelle du Ministère du Développement du Secteur
Privé et de la Privatisation. Un projet financé par la Banque Mondiale, via le crédit IDA n° 2956 MAG qui
a été signé entre le Gouvernement Malagasy et la Banque Mondiale le 14 juillet 1997 et mis en vigueur
le 06 février 1998.

Ce Projet a été conçu et préparé en tenant compte de la situation économique du pays et des
enseignements tirés de l'expérience antérieure, à Madagascar ou ailleurs: a) on a énormément veillé à
ce que la préparation de chaque composante soit menée tôt et d'une manière rigoureuse; b) on a adopté
des méthodes transparentes, compétitives et fondées sur les règles du marché non seulement pour les
réformes à entreprendre au niveau des politiques, mais aussi pour les aspects essentiels de la
préparation et de l'exécution du projet comme le recrutement du personnel et des consultants clés; c)
l'accent a été mis sur l'initiative du client pour la préparation        de chaque composante, avec une
participation active des parties prenantes appartenant au secteur privé et des responsables
gouvernementaux ; et d) la participation du secteur privé a fait appel à des entreprises représentant un
large éventail, que ce soit du point de vue de leurs activités, de leurs dimensions ou de leur région.

La philosophie qui sous-tend le concept de ce projet repose sur les principes et structures du marché: a)
le programme de privatisation est destiné à être entrepris d'une manière transparente, compétitive et
fondée sur le marché ; condition nécessaire à son efficacité et à sa durabilité en termes d'appui de la
population; b) la libéralisation du marché, les incitations en faveur du secteur privé et les réformes de
l'administration fiscale ont pour but d'éliminer les distorsions et de créer des conditions de jeu égales
pour les investisseur privés, locaux et étrangers, tout en prenant en compte les préoccupations locales et
la nécessité d'assurer une forte participation à ce niveau; c) les composantes de renforcement des
capacités du secteur privé sont toutes fondées sur des programmes temporaires et jouant un rôle de
catalyseurs, qui ont pour but de renforcer les marchés en consolidant les capacités des entreprises
privées mais aussi les institutions du marché, en évitant de créer de nouvelles structures bureautiques
permanentes et en établissant des réseaux qui permettent des contacts entre les entreprises privées de
Madagascar et des partenaires extérieurs privé sur les marchés mondiaux.




                                                     - 35 -

Le Projet contribue à l'élaboration et à l'exécution de réformes majeures destinées à être soutenues par
le Crédit d'Ajustement Structurel (CAS) de l'IDA et la Facilité d'ajustement structurel renforcée (FASR)
du FMI approuvée en décembre 1996.


1.2. Objectifs du Projet


Le PATESP a pour objectif de promouvoir une croissance plus rapide grâce à des réformes de la
politique économique et du cadre de l'activité économique. Ceci permettra: (i) d'accroître la productivité
et les investissements et du Secteur Privé; (ii) d'améliorer l'information disponible sur les marchés
mondiaux; (iii) d'accroître la participation des entreprises privées et de renforcer leurs capacités; (iv) de
mobiliser les investissements directs étrangers.

Ainsi le Projet PATESP, à travers ses deux programmes, contribuera: (i) à la libéralisation des marchés
dans les secteurs majeurs encore dominés par le secteur public; (ii) au désengagement de l'Etat des
entreprises publiques; (iii) au renforcement des capacités techniques et de gestion des entreprises
privées malgaches afin qu'elles puissent tirer le maximum de bénéfices des réformes économiques; (iv)
à la modernisation des administrations fiscale et douanière afin de passer à un régime d'imposition
incitatif et apte à produire les ressources nécessaires au financement du développement de Madagascar.




II - Bilan de réalisations par composante


2.1. Programme de réforme de la politique économique


2.1.1. Programme de libéralisation économique

Ce programme a été pris en charge par le STP et concerne surtout la conception et la mise en oeuvre de
la réforme du cadre de l'activité économique et des incitations offertes au secteur privé. Il consiste à
appuyer la mise en place des organes sectoriels de régulation (télécommunications, transport, énergie)
et à appuyer la conduite de la réforme minière.

- Secteur Télécommunication: OMERT opérationnel
- Secteur Energie: Office Malgache des Hydrocarbures (OMH) opérationnel;
-- Secteur Transport: Aviation Civile de Madagascar (ACM) opérationnel
- Secteur Minier: Elle consiste en une mise en place d'un programme d'actions prioritaires relatives au
développement du secteur minier privé portant sur la mise en place d'un système de gestion informatisé
des titres miniers (cadastre minier), la modernisation du cadre légal, réglementaire et fiscal du secteur, et
l'audit institutionnel de la Direction des mines et de l'OMNIS. Les travaux réalisés sont les suivants: (i)
élaboration de la déclaration de politique sectorielle minière (Décret n°98/394 du 28 mai 1998); (ii)
évaluation du système de cadastre actuel et la mise en forme d'un projet de restructuration; (iii) rédaction
d'un projet de code minier moderne (voir date de validation et soumission à l'Assemblée Nationale); (iv)
assistance technique au Ministère pour les négociations en cours d'une convention d'établissement avec
les promoteurs du projet Nickel de Moramanga; (v) l'audit institutionnel de la Direction des Mines et de
l'OMNIS; (vi) la révision des textes sur l'environnement pour qu'ils soient consistants avec le code minier
en cours de révision; et (vii) l'élaboration d'un modèle de convention de stabilité spécifique aux grands
investissements dans le secteur.


2.1.2. Privatisation des Entreprises Publiques :

Les activités de privatisation ont été menées conjointement:



                                                     - 36 -

- par le STP avec le principal but d'encourager l'investissement direct des repreneurs stratégiques
locaux et internationaux, tout en: (i) éliminant les barrières à l'entrée dans les secteurs importants ou
opèrent les monopoles; (ii) assurant la transparence et l'appui populaire au programme de privatisation;
(iii) se dégageant des Entreprises Publiques commerciales restantes; (iv) réalisant le transfert d'actions
au FPP;

- par le PASERP dont le rôle est : (i) d'assurer la prise en compte du volet social dans la préparation des
dossiers de privatisation, par un appui technique auprès du Secrétariat Technique à la Privatisation; (ii)
de réduire les risques de tensions sociales pendant la période de mise en oeuvre de la politique de
privatisation; (iii) de mettre en place un dispositif léger, efficace et efficient, pour aider, dans leur
démarche de réinsertion professionnelle, le personnel licencié dans le cadre de la mise en exécution de
la politique de désengagement de l'Etat des entreprises publiques; (iv) d'assurer l'opérationnalité des
services et outils financiers de la composante sociale (qui intègre le plan social transversal) qui vient en
appui à la politique de privatisation; (v) d'appliquer le Plan social dit transversal aux employés licenciés
dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre de la politique de privatisation.


2.1.3. Les résultats du STP

- Nombre d'Entreprises publiques cédées: 15;
- Nombre de nouveaux investisseurs stratégiques tous secteurs confondus: 15;
- Nombre d'EP ayant fait l'objet de transfert au Fonds de Portage et de Privatisation (FPP): 1;
- Valeur des actions transférées au FPP 86 000 USD;
- Nombre de nouveaux actionnaires à travers le FPP: 75 avec USD1,146 comme placement moyen par
actionnaire;
- Moyens Financiers: IDA DTS 9.990.500,00 Taux de décaissement 99.84%;
- Ressources Humaines: effectif de 20 personnes; 1 Secrétaire Technique, 1 Expert Financier, 1
Directeur Administratif et Financier, 5 Chargés d'opérations, 1 Responsable Communication, 11
personnel administratif.

Le STP, dans la réalisation de son programme a rencontré différents problèmes, essentiellement les
suivants:
- Les délais adoptés par l'Autorité compétente dans le choix de la stratégie à adopter entraînant souvent
le non respect du calendrier de la privatisation;
- Le changement de l'orientation politique du Gouvernement sur telle ou telle société, par exemple le
processus de privatisation de la société AIRMAD a été suspendu au moment du dépouillement des offres
reçues;
- La politique sociale du Gouvernement qui s'abstient d'expulser les paysans ayant occupé illégalement,
parfois jusqu'à 80 % les terrains appartenant aux sociétés à privatiser;
- L'insuffisance du budget initial alloué à chaque dossier entraînant parfois des avenants relativement
importants.

Ces problèmes, bien que fondamentaux ne sont pas insurmontables car dépendent de la volonté ferme
du Gouvernement à mener jusqu'au bout la politique de privatisation. A cet effet l'arrêt définitif de la liste
des entreprises à privatiser permettrait au STP de se lancer à fond dans les processus et de bien
respecter son calendrier.


2.1.4. Les résultats du PASERP

- Effectif des bénéficiaires Fonds de Réinsertion: 821 pour un coût total de Fmg 1 935 657 500;
- Budget final de 657 000 DTS; taux de décaissement: 100%;
- Nombre de sociétés concernées par les opérations de traitement: 24;
- Nombre d'ateliers d'information et de formation organisés sur la démarche de réinsertion



                                                    - 37 -

professionnelle: 117 sur 47 sites pour 2873 agents;
- Nombres de contrats signés avec des organismes d'appui pour assister 908 agents licenciés dans leur
démarche de réinsertion: 99;

Le programme peut être remis en cause en cas :
- d'absence d'une volonté politique de mener à bien toutes les réformes indispensables pour réaliser une
croissance forte, une condition incontournable pour réduire la pauvreté;
- d'absence d'une politique sociale claire;
- d'absence d'un discours politique claire et cohérent;
- d'absence de transparence dans les procédures de privatisation;
- d'incapacité des responsables locaux à mesurer les enjeux sociaux de la nouvelle politique
économique;

L'exécution du PASERP dans le cadre du PATESP a démontré que le programme de réinsertion répond
à une demande des employés, c'est là la première condition de sa pérennité. Par ailleurs, le programme
pallie les carences liées à l'absence d'une politique de l'emploi et les carences d'un code de travail non
adapté au nouveau contexte économique.

Enfin le PASERP est encore, dans son principe actuel, un programme spécifique et ponctuel lié à la
politique de privatisation. Or les licenciements (comme les recrutements) sont, dans un environnement
économique instable, des outils stratégiques de gestion de l'entreprise, c'est donc une donnée sociale
permanente que l'Etat et les entreprises doivent gérer. Par ailleurs le Gouvernement est actuellement
entrain d'engager une réforme des services publics dont l'une des conséquences est le dégraissage de
l'effectif de l'Administration. Par conséquent il faudrait dès à présent réfléchir sur la mise en place d'une
structure pérenne, par rapport non seulement à une politique de l'emploi, mais aussi à une politique de
formation professionnelle, le tout encadré par un Code du Travail en cohérence avec les options de la
politique économique et le contrat social que l'Etat veut passer avec les travailleurs. L'expérience du
PASERP peut être le point de départ pour engager une réflexion sur la gestion de l'emploi dans le
contexte actuel, une réflexion qui devrait aboutir à la mise en place d'un dispositif de réinsertion pérenne,
outil stratégique d'une politique de l'emploi.



2.2. Programme de Renforcement des Capacités du Secteur Privé

2.2.1 Comité de Réflexion sur la Compétitivité

Critères de mesure et de jugement des actions du CRC :
- Nombre de thèmes abordés ;
- Nombre d propositions faites et acceptées par le gouvernement ;
- Délai de mise en eouvre par le Gouvernement ;

Difficulté à mesurer le nombre de propositions faites, il faut considérer plusieurs cas paramètres :

a) la définition des mesures:
Si on considère les études comme faisant un tout, aucune proposition n'a été acceptée. Si au contraire
on les considère comme étant support à la décision, on peut voir des principes ou éléments des
propositions acceptées par le Gouvernement. Les résultats sont alors appréciés de manière
diamétralement opposées par les parties prenantes.

b) le niveau d'acceptation
Les propositions du CRC passent par plusieurs niveaux d'acceptation :
- Acceptation par les membres du CRC (abstraction faite de leur position)
- Acceptation technique par les membres de l'administration
- Acceptation par les départements ministériels en charge
- Acceptation par le Gouvernement



                                                     - 38 -

- Acceptation par le pouvoir législatif
- Promulgation et mise en oeuvre

Si l'on prend l'acceptation à partir du niveau quatre, on pourrait avancer que dans le court (moins de 3
mois) terme, aucune mesure n'est acceptée par le gouvernement. Quand on regarde le moyen terme, les
idées (dispositions particulières dans la proposition globale) semblent faire leur bonhomme de chemin.
Mais quand on regarde sur le long terme, les résultats sont encore loin d'être probants.

c) Les résultats positifs :
En analysant dans le temps, certaines propositions du CRC voient leur concrétisation mais avec un
décalage important.


Les facteurs ayant négativement affectés la composante

Les longues années de centralisme démocratique avec un pouvoir accru de l'administration, ont fait que
les parties prenantes ne sont pas suffisamment prêtes à se concerter. Les administrations ont du mal à
se défaire de leurs prérogatives, alors que le secteur privé annoncent leurs propositions comme des
exigences, des revendications. La concertation n'est pas encore totalement rentrée dans les moeurs. Elle
est circonstancielle. Même si elle est rendue obligatoire, elle est quelques fois ignorée.

En fait la concertation n'est pas encore institutionnelle, elle est surtout personnalisée. Créé du temps du
Premier Ministre Norbert Ratsirahonana, le CRC a commencé à être opérationnel avec le gouvernement
de SEM Pascal Rakotomavo. Les premières années ont été marquées par l'absence de consensus sur
les thèmes qu'il fallait aborder (le projet d'étude sur la réforme fiscale n'a jamais pu se faire). Ceci a été
suivi par le désaccord important sur la gestion de la sécurisation des recettes douanières. Avec le
gouvernement de Tantely Andrianarivo, les rencontres ont repris, mais on ne peut pas dire qu'il y ait eu
une pleine confiance entre les parties. Avec le dernier changement de régime, les personnes et les
structures de concertation ont changé. Le gouvernement a annulé la reconnaissance d'utilité publique de
l'association.

2.2.2. Programme de Séminaires sur le Secteur Privé

n.a


2.2.3. Fonds d'Appui au Secteur Privé

n.a


2.2.4. Programme de Promotion des Investissements des Investissements Directs Etrangers

n.a




III - Performance de la Banque Mondiale


Le projet a été, durant toutes les phases de son existence, constamment supervisé par la Banque
Mondiale, à travers la revue des portefeuilles, les avis de non-objection et les commentaires sur les
rapports d'audit. Toutefois des problèmes sont apparus suite à des défaillances.




                                                     - 39 -

3.1. Phase Préparation

Le projet PATESP a été précédé de deux avances initiales de fonds pour la préparation et la mise en
place du projet PPF 880-0 MAG pour USD 1.400.000 et PPF 880-1 MAG pour USD 600.000. Malgré
cela, la mise en place proprement dite du crédit a été retardée par la réalisation des conditions de mise
en vigueur, circonstance qui a obligé le STP à préfinancer ses dépenses sur les fonds DGGP ; dont le
remboursement a occasionné des difficultés pratiques lors de la comptabilisation des opérations.


3.2. Phase Supervision

La cellule de coordination n'a été mise en place que tard après les décaissements effectifs, il a été
même prévu de recruter un responsable de suivi-évaluation, chose qui n'a jamais été réalisée ; un
responsable administratif et financier a été recruté vers fin Décembre 1999, mais il a été surtout
accaparé par les problèmes comptables. D'où absence d'un suivi budgétaire rigoureux.

Ainsi les engagements du STP ont dépassé l'allocation correspondante dans l'accord de crédit, ce qui a
entraîné une amputation du budget du PASERP de DTS 1.840.000 pour compenser le manque. Des
réallocations initiées par le FASP, doté d'une autonomie financière, parviennent directement à la Banque
Mondiale sans que la Coordination soit au courant, d'où divergence entre la situation au niveau IDA et
celle tenue au niveau de la Coordination. Les grands dossiers font souvent l'objet d'avenants suite à une
insuffisance des estimations du budget initial alloué.


IV - Performance du Gouvernment


Le Gouvernement Malagasy a inscrit le projet dans son Programme d'Investissement Public, et a alloué
par conséquent des lignes budgétaires annuelles pour le projet. Néanmoins, les procédures inhérentes à
la Loi des Finances ne permettaient pas le déblocage à temps des fonds alloués annuellement. Par
conséquent, la part Etat n'arrivait pas à suivre le rythme de décaissement sur Fonds IDA, ce qui a
entraîné un retard sur le paiement de la part Etat.


V - Enseignements ou leçons a tirer

Le PATESP a été clôturé au 31 décembre 2002, le PDSP II prend le relais et continue de financer les
opérations de libéralisation, de privatisation et de relance du secteur privé. Toutefois, leur aboutissement
final nécessite :


- Une volonté politique du Gouvernement orientée vers la libéralisation économique et la privatisation
des entreprises publiques; volonté devant se traduire par un discours ferme et clair pour éviter toute
surenchère sociale;

- Le respect et l'application par les parties prenantes de la loi sur la privatisation ;

- Une collaboration franche entre les entités chargées de mener les opérations financées avec le Task
Manager du projet ;


Du côté social :

- le fait que la réussite du programme dépend de la volonté politique du Gouvernement, de la capacité
de l'équipe gouvernementale, des autorités et des élus locaux à comprendre et à internaliser les enjeux
des réformes économiques (particulièrement la privatisation), cette volonté doit se traduire par un
discours ferme et clair pour éviter toute surenchère sociale;



                                                     - 40 -

- Le caractère multidimensionnel de cette gestion du volet social qui exige une approche horizontale de
l'action des pouvoirs publics,

- La nécessité d'une vision globale du développement qui doit être à la fois économique, culturel et
social, par conséquent, la réussite de cette privatisation doit être évaluée à l'aune du développement
social et non uniquement sur des critères économiques et financiers ;

- La nécessaire intégration des projets individuels aux projets sociaux collectifs ;

- Par ailleurs la mise en oeuvre des mesures sociales d'accompagnement de la privatisation doit être
une occasion pour réfléchir sur une politique sociale mieux adaptée aux nouvelles donnes économiques,
et pour faire avancer la réforme des services publics. Mais pour lever les nombreuses contraintes, il
faudrait aussi que l'économie redevienne un moyen et non une fin comme elle tend à l'être aujourd'hui,
que l'on redonne au politique ses fonctions de régulateur social dans la gestion de l'économie de marché.




                                                    - 41 -

- 42 -

