Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2956-MAG
Development Credit Agreement
(Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 14, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2956-MAG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 14, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS  (A) the Association has received a letter of private sector development 
policy, dated May 2, 1997, from the Borrower, describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to promote and strengthen its private sector 
development strategy (hereinafter referred to as "the Program"), and declaring its 
commitment to the execution of the Program;
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise 
agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures 
in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank 
or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment 
or import, to 
the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations.";
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“If (a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from 
the Credit Account 
shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit 
for a continuous period 
of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Association 
determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required to finance the Project's costs 
to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any time, the Association 
determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect 
of such contract which would otherwise have 
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds 
of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the Association determines that the procurement of any 
contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement and 
establishes the 
amount of the expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, 
terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with 
respect to 
such amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be 
cancelled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Arbitration Commission” means the arbitration commission established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Loi No. 96.012, dated August 13, 1996, relating to the 
settlement of legal disputes arising out of the Privatization Program;
(b)
“Beneficiary” means beneficiary of a Grant;  
(c)
“Competitiveness Review Committee” or  “CRC” means the Borrower’s 
Competitiveness Review Committee, a private non-profit-making association established 
and existing under the laws of the Borrower, with a mandate to (i) identify and 
analyse policy and other business environment constraints to private sector 
competitiveness, (ii) develop detailed proposals for policy change, and (iii) submit 
its proposals for consideration by the policymakers; 
(d)
"FASP" means the Fonds d’Appui au Secteur Privé, a private 
non-profit-making association established and existing under the laws of the Borrower;  
Page  3
(e)
“FASP Convention” means the FASP Convention referred to in Section 3.05 
(a) of this Agreement, as same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes any schedules to the FASP Convention;
(f)
“Grant” means a grant made, or  to be made, out of the proceeds of the 
Credit to finance a Sub-project, a seminar under the Seminars Fund, or a Matchmaking 
Transaction;  
(g)
"Implementation Plan" means the implementation plan referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes any schedules to the Implementation Plan; 
(h)
“Matchmaker” means a person who is in the business of facilitating 
Matchmaking Transactions;   
(i)
“Matchmaking Transaction” means a transaction pursuant to Part B.4 of the 
Project, designed to facilitate export-oriented enterprise collaboration between a 
Malagasy private firm and a foreign partner; 
(j)
"MB" means Ministère du Budget, the Borrower’s Ministry of Budget; 
(k)
“MDSPP” means Ministère du Développement du Secteur Privé et de la 
Privatisation, the Borrower’s Ministry of Private Sector Development and 
Privatisation; 
(l)
“MF" means Ministère des Finances, the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;
(m)
“MMF” means the Matchmaking Fund under Part B.4 of the Project; 
(n)
“MMF Convention” means the MMF Convention referred to in Section 3.05 (c) 
of this Agreement, as same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
any schedules to the MMF Convention;
(o)
“Privatization Committee” means the privatization committee established 
under the Privatization Law to be responsible for the implementation of the Borrower’s 
Privatization Program;  
(p)
“Privatization Law” means the Borrower’s Loi No. 96.011, dated August 13, 
1996, defining the Privatization Program and prescribing the rules governing such 
program; 
(q)
“Privatization Program” means the privatization program which is the 
subject matter of the Privatization Law; 
(r)
“Social and Regional Development Support Fund” means the Social and 
Regional Development Support Fund established under the Privatization Law for the 
purpose of ensuring that benefits of the privatization program accrue to the less 
privileged groups in the territory of the Borrower; 
(s)
“Privatization Trust Fund” means the privatization trust fund established 
under the Privatization Law for the purpose of establishing a share warehousing scheme 
to hold minority shares in the privatized public enterprises pending their sale to 
employees of privatized public enterprises, members of the public, national 
enterprises and institutional investors;
(t)
“Procedures Manual” means the Procedures Manual referred to in paragraph 
3 of Schedule 4 to  this Agreement, as same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes any schedules to the Procedures Manual;
(u)
"Project Account" means the project account referred to in Section 3.06 
of this Agreement; 
(v)
“Project Coordinator” means the Project Coordinator referred to in 
paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(w)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a first letter of agreement, 
Page  4
dated July 27, 1994, signed by the Association and countersigned on August 26, 1994 by 
the Borrower, and a second letter of agreement, dated August 28, 1995, signed by the 
Association and countersigned on September 13, 1995 by the Borrower;  
(x)
“Seminars Fund” means the Seminars Fund under Part B.3 of the Project; 
(y)
“Seminars Fund Convention” means the Seminars Fund Convention referred to 
in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement, as same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes any schedules to the Seminars Fund Convention;
(z)
"Special Account" means each or any of the accounts referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; 
(aa)
“Sub-project” means an activity under Part B.1 of the Project, in respect 
of which a grant has been, or may be, provided to a Beneficiary; and
(ab)
“Technical Secretariat” means the technical secretariat established under 
the Privatization Law to be responsible, under the authority of the Privatization 
Committee, to plan, arrange, coordinate and supervise the technical experts 
responsible of the day-to-day implementation of the Privatization Program.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventeen million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 17,200,000).
Section 2.02.  (a)  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and 
(ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) on account of 
withdrawals made for the benefit of a Beneficiary under a Grant to meet the reasonable 
cost of eligible expenditures related to such Grant, and in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may open and maintain: 
(i)
one special deposit account in dollars in the name of MF 
(hereinafter referred 
to as Special Account A) for the purposes of 
Part A of the Project; and
(ii)
one special deposit account in dollars in the name of FASP 
(hereinafter 
referred to as Special Account B) for the purposes of 
Part B. 
Special Accounts shall be maintained in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
Page  5
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three\1efourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06.  Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07.  (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
February 1 and August 1, commencing August 1, 2007, and ending February 1, 2037. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2017, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A)
requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest rate at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08.  The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Page  6
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Part A.1 and A.2 of the Project through MDSPP, and 
Part A.3 of 
the Project through MB, with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, technical and 
financial practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other 
resources required for such Part 
of the Project;
(ii)
shall cause FASP to carry out Part B of the Project with due 
diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, technical and 
financial practices, shall take or cause 
to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to 
enable FASP to carry out the Project, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the 
carrying out of the Project by FASP.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Part A, and cause FASP to carry out Part B of the Project, all in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04.  The Association and the Borrower hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04. 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of 
Part B of the Project shall be carried out by FASP.
Section 3.05. (a) For the purposes of Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall conclude a convention with FASP (hereinafter referred to as the FASP 
Convention), whereby it shall agree to transfer to FASP on a non-reimbursable basis: 
(i) 
in the case of Part B.1 of the Project, an amount of the Credit 
not exceeding 
such amount as may be allocated from time to time to 
Category (4) (a) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, to be used to provide 
Grants to Beneficiaries to finance 
Sub-projects on the terms and conditions 
specified in paragraph 7 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and on such other 
terms and conditions 
as shall be acceptable to the Association; and 
(ii) 
in the case of Part B.2 of the Project, an amount of the Credit 
not exceeding 
such amount as may be allocated from time to time for 
purposes of Part B.2 of 
the Project, to be used to finance CRC-related 
activities, on such terms and 
conditions as shall be acceptable to the 
Association.
Page  7
(b)
For the purposes of Part B.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall conclude 
a convention with FASP (hereinafter referred to as the Seminars Fund Convention), 
whereby it shall agree to transfer to FASP on a non-reimbursable basis an amount of 
the Credit not exceeding the amount allocated to Category (4) (b) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be used to create a Seminars Fund to 
provide Grants to finance seminars for the benefit of public and private sector 
participants, on the terms and conditions specified in paragraph 8 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, and on such other terms and conditions as shall be acceptable to the 
Borrower and the Association.
(c)
For the purposes of Part B.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall conclude 
a convention with FASP (hereinafter referred to as the MMF Convention), whereby it 
shall agree to transfer to FASP on a non-reimbursable basis an amount of the Credit 
not exceeding such amount as may be allocated from time to time to Category (4) (c) of 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be used to create a 
Matchmaking Fund to provide Grants to finance Matchmaking Transactions, on the terms 
and conditions specified in paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and on such 
other terms and conditions as shall be acceptable to the Association.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the FASP Convention, the 
Seminars Fund Convention and the MMF Convention, in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend, 
abrogate or waive any provision thereof, if such amendment, abrogation or waiver may, 
in the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation 
of the Project.
Section 3.06.  (a)  Without limitation upon its obligations under Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall open, in a commercial bank and on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, an advance account (hereinafter referred 
to as Project Account), in the currency of the Borrower, to be operated and maintained 
by the Project Coordinator, into which it shall deposit from time to time its local 
counterpart contribution to the cost of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
make an initial deposit of the equivalent of $50,000 into the 
Project Account; 
and 
(ii)
have the Project Account replenished on a monthly basis, or 
whenever the 
balance thereof equals not more than one third of the 
amount of the initial 
deposit, whichever occurs first. 
(c)
Funds deposited in the Project Account shall be applied solely for the 
purposes of defraying the cost of expenditures incurred for the execution of the 
Project, and not otherwise financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part A of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out such part of the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for Special Account A, for each fiscal year 
audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
Page  8
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a)  The Borrower shall cause FASP to maintain records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations and financial condition of FASP.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause FASP to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements), including those for 
Special Account B, for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
have its administrative, technical and managerial performance for 
each 
semester audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, having 
regard to the provisions of the FASP 
Convention, Seminars Fund Convention and 
MMF Convention, and the 
Procedures’ Manual, during the first two years 
following the 
Effective Date;
(iii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, or 
three months after the end 
of each semester, as the case may be, 
(A) certified copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and
(iv)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts, financial statements and the audit thereof 
as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Page  9
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause FASP:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial and technical practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; 
and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, machinery, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and 
financial practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
(b)
FASP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations arising under 
this Agreement, the FASP Convention, the Seminars Fund Convention or the MMF 
Convention;
(c)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that FASP will be able to perform its obligations arising under 
this Agreement, the FASP Convention, the Seminars Fund Convention or the MMF 
Convention;
(d)
the statutes of FASP shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of FASP to 
perform any of its obligations arising under this Agreement, the FASP Convention, the 
Seminars Fund Convention or the MMF Convention;
(e)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FASP, or for the suspension of 
the operations of FASP.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (d) and (e) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the FASP Convention, Seminars Fund Convention and MMF Convention have 
each been duly signed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and FASP;
Page  10
(b)
the CRC Protocol of Agreement referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement has been duly signed and delivered on behalf of FASP and CRC;
(c)
the Procedures Manual has been duly approved by the Borrower and the 
Association, and adopted by the FASP;    
(d)
the Implementation Plan has been duly approved by the Association, and 
adopted by the Borrower; and
(e)
the Project Account has been duly opened, and the initial amount of 
$50,000 equivalent deposited therein.
Section 7.02.  The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association: namely, that the FASP Convention, 
Seminars Fund Convention and MMF Convention have each been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and FASP, and are legally binding upon the Borrower and FASP in 
accordance with their respective terms.
Section 7.03.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this Agreement 
shall cease and determine on the date on which this Agreement shall terminate or on 
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the 
earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Antananarivo 101
Madagascar
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIN
22489
Antananarivo 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  11
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By /s/ Biclair Andrianantoandro
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
                    Amount of the
                       Credit
             % of
                      Allocated
         Expenditures
                    (Expressed in              to be
Category
             SDR Equivalent)
     Financed
(1)
Goods: 
 
                             100% of foreign 
                                    expenditures and
(a) under Part A.2 of
     70,000
        85% of local
           the Project
                      expenditures
(b) under Part A.3 of
    700,000
           the Project
(c) under Part B of
            80,000
           the Project
(2) 
Consultants'   
                             100% 
services: 
(a) under Part A.1 and
  4,060,000
           A.2 of the Project
(b) under Part A.3 of
    420,000
           the Project
(c) under Part B of the
  1,360,000
           Project
(3)
Operating costs: 
 
                     100% of foreign 
                                   expenditures and
(a) under Part A.2 of
    960,000
        85% of local
Page  12
           the Project
                      expenditures
(b) under Part A.3 of
     50,000
    the Project
(c) under Part B of
           510,000
    the Project
(4) Grants:
 
(a) under Part B.1 of
  2,460,000
        100% of amounts
    the Project
                      of Grants disbursed
(b) under Part B.3 of
    220,000
        100% of amounts
    the Project
                      of Grants disbursed
(c) under Part B.4 of
    860,000
        100% of amounts
           the Project   
                      of Grants disbursed
(5)
Project monitoring
           490,000
        100%
and audits
(6)
Retraining fund under 
   2,390,000
        100%
Part A.2 (d) of the 
Project
(7)
Refunding of
                1,450,000
        Amounts due
Project
                             pursuant to
Preparation
                             Section 2.02 (d)
Advance
                             of this Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
                1,120,000
 
TOTAL
                      17,200,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means the incremental operating costs incurred 
under the Project by MDSPP, MB and FASP, respectively, on account of (i) local 
contractual staff salaries, (ii) travel costs and allowances, (iii) maintenance of 
vehicles and equipment, (iv) banking charges, and (v) office rent, supplies and 
utilities.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: 
(a) 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement;
(b)
in respect of a Grant, unless the Grant has been provided in accordance 
with procedures, and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to, in this 
Agreement and the Procedures Manual;
(c) 
in respect of payments under Categories (1) (b), (2) (b) and (3) (b) of 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the Borrower has signed an agreement 
with an executing agency, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, for 
the execution of Part A.3 of the Project;
(d) 
in respect of payments under Category (6) of the table in paragraph 1 of 
Page  13
this Schedule, unless the Borrower has defined the legal framework, and established 
rules and procedures acceptable to the Association, for the utilisation of the 
retraining fund under Part A.2 (d) of the Project.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and consultants' 
services (firms) under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, consultants' 
services (individuals) under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, operating 
costs, training and Grants, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support accelerated export-led growth in 
Madagascar by increasing  private sector investment and productivity through reforms 
in the policy and business environment, upgrading the global market knowledge, 
involvement and capabilities of private sector firms, and attracting foreign direct 
investment.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A: 
Economic Policy Reform Program
1.
Design and implementation of reforms in the business environment  and in private 
sector incentives, including market liberalization and regulatory reforms to encourage 
competition, support privatization and open up the economy to foreign direct 
investment.
2.
(a)
Privatization program: provision of technical advisory services and 
logistical support for the preparation, implementation and performance monitoring of 
the privatization program, including preparation and execution of divestiture 
transactions for individual public enterprises, design and adoption of pro-competitive 
sector regulatory frameworks and demonopolization measures, and establishment and 
operation of key elements of the legal and institutional framework for the 
privatization program. 
(b)
Privatization Committee and Technical Secretariat: provision of technical 
advisory services and logistical support for the establishment and operation of the 
Privatization Committee and the Technical Secretariat. 
(c)
Privatization Trust Fund, Social and Regional Development Support Fund, 
and Arbitration Commission: provision of technical advisory services and logistical 
support for the establishment and operation of the Privatization Trust Fund, the 
Social and Regional Development Support Fund, and the Arbitration Commission.
(d)
Retraining Fund: Establishment of a retraining fund to finance the 
training and redeployment of persons affected by measures linked to the Borrower’s 
divestiture policy in relation to public enterprises.
3.
(a)
 Modernization of value added tax system: modernization of the Value 
Added Tax (VAT) system, including introduction of a threshold above which all 
enterprises are subjected to VAT, irrespective of sectors of intervention or types of 
activities,  and reduction of list of zero-rated or exempted goods.
(b)
Rehabilitation of fiscal administration: rehabilitation of fiscal 
administration, including creation of a large taxpayer unit and a simplified single 
tax system for small firms, computerization of tax administration, improvement of 
collection rate, introduction of  a single identification number system, and a staff 
recruitment and training program.
(c)
Strengthening of customs administration: strengthening of the customs 
administration, including updating of customs software, creation of a new office in 
Antananarivo to monitor free zone enterprise operations, and a staff recruitment and 
Page  14
training program.
Part B: 
Private Sector Capacity Building Program.
1.
(a)
Support services: establishment and operation of the Fonds d’Appui au 
Secteur Privé (FASP), to provide access to business support services to private firms 
and business associations, in order to develop a private knowledge bank and promote 
the development of information, advisory and support services by well-established 
private sector associations and groups of firms for the benefit of their members.
(b)
Information access: provision of an internet-based information service, 
on a walk-in fee for service basis, for the benefit of Malagasy private firms to 
provide access to international data and market sources and to interconnect firms in 
different parts of Madagascar.
2.
Provision of technical advisory services and logistical support to the 
Competitiveness Review Committee (CRC), to enable it to perform its functions under 
its statutes and its Protocol of Agreement with the Borrower, including review of 
constraints to private sector development, identification of solutions and 
recommendations based on policy diagnostic studies, organization of  visits by 
international experts to disseminate lessons learned and best practices, seminars and 
communications activities, and carrying out of a public awareness campaign.
3.
Establishment of a Seminars Fund to finance the preparation and organization of 
seminars by Government and the private sector on topics of broad national interest in 
terms of private sector competitiveness.
4.
Establishment and operation of a foreign direct investment (FDI) matchmaking 
scheme, through the creation of a Matchmaking Fund (MMF), to provide grants to finance 
success fees involved in Matchmaking Transactions, and to finance the training of 
prospective Matchmakers.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B: 
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Page  15
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $175,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Community Participation
Goods required under Parts B.1, B.2 and B.3 of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for policy reform and private sector 
capacity building under Parts A and B of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$75,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for advisory services, policy studies, enterprise consultancies and 
implementation monitoring under Parts A and B of the Project may be procured under 
Page  16
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits, enterprise consultancies and seminars, under Parts A and B 
of the Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for seminars, policy studies and enterprise consultancies under Parts A 
and B of the Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Single Source Selection
Services for enterprise consultancies, policy studies and seminars under Parts A 
and B of the Project which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
5.
Commercial Practices
Services to assist Beneficiaries in carrying out Sub-projects under Part B.1 (a) 
of the Project and estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent may be procured in 
accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the Bank. 6.
Individual 
Consultants
Services for policy studies, advisory services, enterprise consultancies and 
seminars under Parts A and B of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall 
be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan 
as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review (a) With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.  
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given."
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Page  17
Implementation Program
General Provisions
1.
(a) 
The Borrower shall designate a representative of MDSPP, whose 
qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the Association, to be the 
Project Coordinator and, as such, to be responsible for the overall coordination of 
the Project, including overall coordination of procurement and disbursement 
activities, coordination of annual and quarterly progress reports, work plans and 
training programs, and audits under Article IV of this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause FASP to appoint (i) a supervisory board 
consisting of suitably qualified and experienced private sector representatives to be 
responsible for overall supervision of Part B of the Project, and (ii) a General 
Manager, whose qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the Association, 
to be responsible for the supervision and coordination of the day-to-day management of 
Part B of the Project, including coordination of procurement and disbursement 
activities, coordination of annual and quarterly progress reports, work plans and 
training programs, and audits under Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
2.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare and submit to the Association an implementation plan for the 
Project, giving details of all procurement and disbursement arrangements, performance 
indicators and other administrative, financial and organizational arrangements agreed 
upon with the Association for purposes of implementation and monitoring of the 
Project; and 
(b)
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Plan and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend, abrogate or waive 
any provision thereof, if such amendment, abrogation or waiver may, in the opinion of 
the Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
3.
The Borrower shall take steps to ensure that FASP: 
(a)
shall prepare and transmit to the Association a Procedures’ Manual, 
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, giving details of operational 
guidelines governing the preparation and implementation of Part B of the Project, 
including, in the case of Parts B.1, B.3 and B.4, eligibility criteria for the 
provision of Grants, Sub-project identification and appraisal procedures, relevant 
environmental appraisal criteria, monitoring and evaluation processes, and applicable 
procurement, disbursement and other implementation guidelines; and
(b)
shall carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with operational 
guidelines set out in the Procedures’ Manual, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof, if such 
amendment, abrogation or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or 
adversely affect the implementation of Part B of the Project.
4.
The Borrower shall ensure that FASP and CRC: 
(a)
shall conclude a Protocol of Agreement, acceptable to the Association, 
for the execution of Part B.2 of the Project; and
(b)
shall carry out Part B.2 of the Project in accordance with the Protocol 
of Agreement referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision 
thereof, if such amendment, abrogation or waiver may, in the opinion of the 
Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of Part B.2 of the 
Project.
5.
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it 
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators 
referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of this Schedule, the carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof.
Page  18
(b)
The Borrower shall, not later than September 30 of each year, beginning 
September 30, 1998, undertake, in conjunction with the Association and FASP, a joint 
annual review of the Project, during which they shall exchange views generally on all 
matters relating to the progress of the Project and the performance by the Borrower 
and FASP of their respective obligations under this Agreement, or arising thereunder, 
and, in particular:
(i)
the progress achieved by the Borrower and FASP, having 
regard to indicators referred to in paragraphs 2 (a) and 
5 (a) 
of this Schedule; 
(ii) 
the progress of training activities under the Project;
(iii)
the status of MMF operations; and
(iv)
the performance of consultants under the Project.
(c)
Not later than one month prior to each annual review, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association, for its comments, a report, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the progress and status of the Project, and 
giving details, in particular, of the various matters to be discussed at such review.
(d)
Following each review, the Borrower undertakes to act promptly and 
diligently in order to take, or cause FASP to take, any corrective action deemed 
necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to 
implement, or cause FASP to implement, such other measures as may have been agreed 
upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
6.
(a)
The Borrower shall, prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, submit to 
the Association, for review and approval, 
a proposed annual work program and 
budget for such fiscal year, giving details of proposed budgetary allocations and 
disbursement estimates, proposed procurement activities, and such other particulars as 
the Association may require, including an annual training and study tour program for 
each component of the Project and, where applicable, an evaluation of the results of 
the training program for the current fiscal year.
(b)
The Borrower shall submit to the Association, for review, 
(i) 
annual and quarterly progress reports on the status of the 
Project, including 
quarterly procurement reports giving details of: 
(A)
revised cost estimates for individual contracts and for the 
Project, 
including best estimates of allowances for price 
contingencies; 
(B)
revised timing of procurement actions, including 
advertising, bidding, 
contract award and completion time for 
individual contracts; and 
(C)
status of compliance with aggregate limits prescribed for 
specific 
procurement procedures; and
(ii)
reports as needed on the award of individual contracts under the 
Project.
Additional Terms and Conditions Governing Grants and Guarantees
7.
Further to Section 3.05 of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
under Part B.1 of the Project for purposes of Grants to Beneficiaries to finance 
Sub-projects shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
(a)
the amount so transferred to FASP shall be used exclusively to provide 
Grants to finance information, advisory and support services for the benefit of 
privately-owned enterprises, groups of enterprises and business associations;
(b)
no Sub-project shall be considered for financing under the Project except 
in accordance with criteria, and terms and conditions, set forth in the Procedures’ 
Page  19
Manual;
(c)
every Sub-project proposal shall be classified according to environmental 
impact category, and subjected as necessary to environmental impact analysis, to 
ensure that: (i) it is fully consistent with environmental appraisal criteria set out 
in the Procedures’ Manual, and (ii) where appropriate, mitigation measures designed to 
minimize adverse effects of proposed Sub-projects are identified and incorporated in 
the Sub-project design;
(d)
goods and services required for the purposes of financing sub-projects 
shall be procured in accordance with procedures referred to in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, and set forth in the Procedures’ Manual; 
(e)
the amount of each grant shall be determined according to a cost-sharing 
formula, which shall be acceptable to the Association and specified in the Procedures’ 
Manual; provided, however, that: 
(i) 
the proceeds of a Grant shall not be used to finance taxes or 
duties levied on 
or in respect of any eligible expenditures relating 
to the Grant; and 
(ii) 
except as the Association may otherwise agree, the cumulative 
amount of any 
one or more Grants made in favor of a single 
Beneficiary shall not exceed 
$50,000; and
(f)
no Sub-project shall be executed under the Project, unless a contract has 
been concluded between the Beneficiary and FASP, setting forth the respective rights 
and obligations of the parties thereunder, details of disbursement schedules and 
procurement procedures, and the amount of the relevant counterpart contribution, 
including, where appropriate, the right of FASP to:
 (i)
obtain all such information as the Association or FASP shall 
reasonably 
request relating to the implementation of the 
Sub-project and the performance 
of the Beneficiary thereunder; and  
(ii)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of 
the proceeds 
of the Credit upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform 
its obligations 
under such contract.
8.
Further to Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated under Part B.3 of the Project for purposes of Grants to finance seminars 
shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
(a)
the proceeds so allocated shall be used exclusively to finance the 
preparation and organization of seminars on competitiveness issues for the benefit of 
public and private sector participants, including private sector stakeholders, labor 
unions and policymakers;
(b)
no seminar shall be considered for financing under the Project except in 
accordance with criteria, and terms and conditions, set forth in the Procedures'  
Manual;
(c)
Grants shall be provided to finance seminars on a demand-driven basis, 
and according to a cost sharing formula, acceptable to the Association;
(d) 
except as the Association may otherwise agree, the amount of the Grant  
payable in respect of a single seminar shall not exceed $80,000; and
(e)
goods and services required for the purposes of financing seminars shall 
be procured in accordance with procedures referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, 
and set forth in the Procedures’ Manual; 
9.
Further to Section 3.05 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated under Part B.4 of the Project for purposes of Grants to finance Matchmaking 
Transactions shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
(a)
the proceeds so allocated shall be used exclusively for the payment of 
Page  20
success fees involved in Matchmaking Transactions;
(b)
no Matchmaking Transaction shall be considered for financing under the 
Project except in accordance with criteria, and terms and conditions, set forth in the 
Procedures’ Manual;
(c)
Grants shall be provided for the sole benefit of eligible and duly 
registered private Malagasy or foreign Matchmakers, and according to a cost sharing 
formula, acceptable to the Association;
(d) 
except as the Association may otherwise agree, the amount of the Grant 
payable in respect of a single Matchmaking Transaction shall not exceed $50,000, or 50 
percent of the total matchmaking success fees involved in the transaction, whichever 
is less;
(e)
no Grant shall be made except in respect of a Matchmaking Transaction 
pre-approved by or on behalf of FASP, and upon satisfactory evidence that a 
partnership contract between an eligible Malagasy firm and its foreign partner has 
been completed, and the outstanding balance of the matchmaking success fees payable by 
the parties to the partnership contract has been duly paid.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means 
(i)
in the case of Special Account A, Categories (1) (a), (1) (b), (2) 
(a), (2) 
(b), (3) (a), (3) (b), (5) and (6) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(ii)
in the case of Special Account B, Categories (1) (c), (2) (c), 
(3) (c),  and 
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project, as well as amounts 
paid or to be paid under Grants, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means:
(i)
in the case of Special Account A, an amount equivalent to $300,000 
to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the 
Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount 
equivalent to $150,000, until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated to the corresponding Categories 
specified in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph in respect of Special Account 
A, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions for Part 
A of the Project, shall be equal to or exceed 
the equivalent of SDR 1,600,000;
(ii)
in the case of Special Account B, an amount equivalent to $600,000 
to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the 
Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount 
equivalent to $300,000, until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated to the corresponding Categories 
specified in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph in respect of Special Account 
B, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
Page  21
into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions for Part 
B of the Project, shall be equal to or exceed 
the equivalent of SDR 1,600,000.
2.
Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Credit 
Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for any of the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the corresponding parts of the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
Page  22
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for the Special Account shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
