Report No. 648a-FI
Appraisal of Water Pollution    FILE COPY
Control Project
Finland
April 15, 1975
Development Finance Companies Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS (AS OF DEC. 31, 1974)
Currency Unit          *       Markka (Fmk)
Fmk 1                  =       US$       0.279
Fink 1,000             =       US$     279.90
Fmk 1,000,000                  US$ 279,900.35
WEIGHTSAND MEASURES USED
Metric                                British/US equivalent
1 kilometer (km)             -         0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)                  =         3.28 feet (ft.)
1 metric ton (m ton)                   0.98 lg ton
1 metric ton (m ton)                   1.1 US short ton
1 kilogram (kg)              =         2.205 pounds (lb)
1 cubic meter per second               264.1720 US gallons per
(m /s)                               second (gal/s)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
OECD                                  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development
EEC                                   European Economic Community
EFTA                                  Etropean Free Trade Association
MBF                                   Mortgage Bank of Finland Oy
NBW                                   National Board of Utters
TERA                                  Working Group on Financing
Pollution Control Investments
by Industry
POB                                   Postipankki
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



APPRAISAL OF
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
FINLAND
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUIZIARY .        ............................................    i-iii
GLOSSARY  ..........          ..................................    iv-vi
I.   INTRODUCTION  ........................................                    1
II.    THE ENVIRONMENT ............ .........................                   1
Economic Situation  ..................................                   1
Industrial Sector ..............          ..............                 2
Wood-Processing Industries  .....           ..................           2
III.    WATER RESOURCES A4D POLLUTION .......................                    4
Finland's Water Resources  .....             ......................      4
Ownership          ,        ....... ... ......... .....................  5
Water Uses ..................................... 6............           5
Water Pollution .......................   6
IV.    POLLUTION CONTROL ...................................
Legislation   ..................................... .                    8
Water Courts  .......................................                    9
National hoard of Waters  .....            .......................      11
Approaches to Water Pollution Control in Industry ....                 12
Baltic Sea       ............................. .....                   14
Past Investmaent by Industry in Pollution Control ...                   15
V.    THE NATIONAL PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT  ..........           ....         16
The National Program for Water Pollution Control   ....    16
The Project .........................................                  20
Loan Administration .................................                  21
Research Component  ..................................                 24
Procurement and Disbursement  ........................                 26
Thlis report was prepared by Messrs. Storch and Griessihaber of the bank and
Kneese and Spofford (consultants);  it is primarily based on a mission to
Finland in October, 1974.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)                                        Page No.
VI.   JUSTIFICATION .      .....................................  27
Demand for Pollution Control .................... ...    27
Least Cost Approach ......... ................    27
Project Benefits        ...................................  28
Conclusions  .......................................      29
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOM4ENDATION ............  ..    29
LIST OF AiNEXES
ANNEX NO. Title
1.       Financial Community
2,       Production and Exports of the Finnish Forest Industry in 1973
3.       BOD and Nutrient Loads in 1972 and Goals for 1980 and 1985
4.       Water Courts
5.       National Board of Waters
6.       Principles of Monitoring Pollution
7.       The Borrower - Mortgage Bank of Finland Oy (MBF)
8.       MBF Summary of Operations 1971-74:  Long-Term Loans
9.       MBF Outstanding Portfolio of Term Loans as of December 31, 1974
10.      MBF Resources as of December 31, 1974
11.      MBF Audited Income Statements 1971-1974
12.      MBF Audited Balance Slheet as of December 31, 1971-1974
13.      Processing Loan Applications for Water Pollution Control Investments
14.       Criteria for Loans from Public Funds to Industries for Financing
Water Pollution Control Investments
15.       Marginal Cost Curve in a Pulp Mill (Kraft Process)
16.       Terms of Reference for Research
17.       Disbursement Schedule
MAPS
1.       Locations of Pulp and Paper Mills, Major Watercourses and
Population Centers



SUMMARY
i.        This report appraises a project which would finance a portion of
Finland's ten year national program (1974-1983) to control water pollution
caused by industries. The Government's reason for undertaking the national
program is based on the demand of the people, as expressed through the poli-
tical process, for a better quality of life. Per capita water consumption
in Finland is the highest in Europe. This is because of the large amounts
of water used by wood-processing industries which discharge a significantly
higher amount of pollutants per ton of production than the average for OECD
countries. Other industries in Finland also cause water pollution. It is
estimated that one-fourth of the population lives on or near severely polluted
water bodies and another one-fourth near mildly polluted water. Also, about
one-fourth of the population lives in areas where the municipal water supply
is taken from surface sources whose quality is marginal. Mlost of the rivers
are only in satisfactory condition at best, while their outlets on the coast
are among the worst polluted areas. There are about 100 km2 of sea coastal
areas which are severely polluted and another 240 km2 in a state of deter-
ioration. The trend of continued urbanization and industrialization will
accelerate pollution unless effective counter-measures are taken as soon as
possible.
ii.       The objectives of the national program are to reduce industrial
waste discharges by 1980 to roughly 50% of the 1972 level, with an incremental
reduction of one-third to take place by 1985. These goals are realistic and
economically justifiable, and they should satisfy to a large extent the
public's demand for environmental improvement. The principle to be applied
in financing the national program is that "the polluter pays". Water pollu-
tion control investments will be financed 23% by the industrial enterprises
and 77% in the form of long-term loans from the Mortgage Bank of Finland Oy
(MBF), the Postipankki (POB), and the Government. Public funds are involved
because pollution control investments are considered by private financial
institutions to be unprofitable so, being chronically short of funds, they
generally do not make term loans for such purposes. It is, in any case,
the Government's practice to provide financing to industry for projects
which have a social impact (for this reason there is also a small subsidy
amounting to no more than 1% of total costs which is made available to borrow-
ers on a case by case basis). Total costs for the 1974-1983 period were es-
timated at Fmk 1,800 million (US$504 million) on the basis of 1974 prices.
iii.      Although a Bank loan of US$20 million would only be about 4% of
total investment under the ten year national program, it would be equivalent
to about 65% of the estimated foreign exchange costs for investments under-
taken during the 1975-77 period. The loan would be made to MBF which is a
subsidiary of the central bank and fully creditworthy. MBF has borrowed
$102 million from the Bank in the past, and its performance was satisfactory.
MBF is a very competent organization, has dealt with the larger industrial
companies of Finland for many years, and is well-qualified to appraise and
supervise pollution control loans to industry. In its sub-project lending
operations bIBF would have the assistance of the National Board of Waters (NBW)
which is the Governmental agency responsible for controlling water use. The



- ii -
Bank loan proceeds would, as a rule, be passed on to the ultimate borrowers
as sub-loans at a rate of 9%, i.e. 1/2 of 1% above cost. About half of MBF's
pollution control loans will be made out of foreign exchange resources and
half out of resources raised locally. Foreign exchange risk would be borne
by MBF's borrowers.
iv.       A special feature of the project is the requirement that sub-projects,
to be eligible for MBF financing out of the loan, must have a zero or negative
financial rate of return (the national program requires that the return be 10%
or less to merit financing from public funds). It is expected that the major-
ity of investments will have a zero or negative rate. Determining the actual
investment costs, after deducting benefits to production which come from pol-
lution control measures, poses special analytical problems for which methods
have been developed. Another special feature of the project is the research
component which will be carried out by the NBW and consultants according to
guidelines provided by the Bank; Government will cover the cost. Research
will focus on the analysis of monitoring and data collection, the modeling of
aquatic eco-systems, the use of cost-benefit and systems analysis, the feas-
ibility of using effluent charges, and the integration of research into work
already being done on the Baltic Sea. Finland's national program, and the
project, will in fact help reduce the pollution of the Baltic which is al-
ready very serious.
V.        The estimated total cost of water pollution control by industry
during the 1974-1983 period will amount to about $100 per capita. The
public is willing to forego some economic growth in order to improve the
quality of the environment. There is some scope for refining the pragmatic
approach used in the national program, but there is no time to do so in
view of the public's demand for action; in any case, no serious distortion
in investment decisions will result. As for individual investments by each
industrial enterprise, there is assurance that the least cost approach will
be followed because of the appraisal criteria, the experience of MBF and NBW,
the sub-project review exercised by the Bank, and the self-interest of bor-
rowers in minimizing their costs. The Bank will be contributing to the design
and implementation of the national program, the institutional capabilities of
MBF and NBW, and the future refinements in pollution control strategy to be
undertaken on the basis of the research component. The loan is needed for
projects already in the 1975 pipeline, since no other foreign exchange bor-
rowings have been contracted as yet. Association with the Bank would help
MBF in obtaining loans from other sources to cover the remaining foreign
exchange gap of about $11 million during the 1975-77 period.
vi.       The Bank has indicated its interest in getting involved in programs
to improve the environment. This is the first effort to do so on a national
scale. The prospect of success for this project is high. By contributing
to Finland's program, the Bank will also acquire (i) detailed knowledge about
pollution control costs and benefits in industry, and (ii) experience in the
research needed for modeling aquatic eco-systems and applying systems analysis
to pollution control. This experience should be useful to the Bank in the
future for water pollution control projects elsewhere in the world.



- iii -
vii.      Although the Government has a number of obligations under the
project, the loan would be to MBF Oecause it is the chosen instrument for
foreign exchange financing of pollution control investments. Loan arrange-
ments would be similar to those involved in Bank loans to development finance
companies. MBF would submit an application to the bank for financing each
sub-project, accompanied by an appraisal which the Bank would review. There
would be a free limit of $500,000, aggregate free limit of $5 million, and
the maximum sub-loan would be 20% of MBF's equity, i.e. about $4 million.
A grace period would be allowed in sub-loans of up to three years, to cover
construction time, and all sub-loans would be fully secured. The amortiza-
tion period of the Bank loan (15 years) would conform substantially to the
aggregate repayment schedules applicable to sub-loans. It is expected that
20 to 30 sub-projects will be presented to the Bank by MBF over a two and
one-half year authorization period; almost all the sub-borrowers have al-
ready been identified. The average foreign exchange component of pollution
control investments is estimated to be 20%, which is what the Bank loan would
cover. International competitive bidding would not be suitable due to the
number of sub-projects, sub-borrowers and suppliers, and the variety of
items to be procured, often proprietary in nature.
viii.     Agreement having been reached on the principal issues, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of $20 million to Mortgage Bank of Finland Oy,
with the Guaranty of the Republic of Finland, to be re-lent to industrial
enterprises. In view of the unprofitability of the proposed pollution con-
trol investments, the appropriate term for the loan is fifteen years includ-
ing two years of grace.



- iv -
GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED
1.   Ambient Water Quality refers to the general condition of water in a
lake, river or coastal area considered in its entirety. This is to be
-distinguished from water quality at specific points which can be good
at one place and polluted at another in the same water body, but do not
give an indication about the overall condition.
2.  Akquatic Eco-System Mlodeling is a planning tool designed specifically to
deal with the trade-offs between levels of ambient water quality and
changes in inputs of different types of residuals (wastes) such as nu-
trients, toxics, heat and organic materials. There are basically three
types of functions involved: chemical reactions, biological interactions,
.nd hydro-dynamic characteristics (advection, dispersion, and mixing).
Aquatic eco-system models are to be distinguished from (i) regression
models which relate water quality to residuals discharges on the basis
of sta-istical techniques, and (ii) classical Streeter-Phelps models
which are similar to aquatic eco-system models in the ability to deal
with spatial and temporal variations but do not deal explicitly with
chemical reactions or the impact of residuals on living components
such as algae and fish.
3.   Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) is a common unit of measurement for a
.ride assortment of organic materials which, as they decompose, use up
dissolved oxygen contained in water. BOD measures the quantity of
oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter in a
specified time at a specified temperature (in Finland, seven days at
20° centigrade). BOD is not related to the oxygen requirements in
chemical combustion (see COD below).
4.   Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) is a measure of the oxygen-consuming capa-
city of the inorganic and organic matter present in water. It is ex-
pressed as the amount of oxygen consumed from a chemical oxidant in a
specific test.
5.   "Degradable" Water Pollutants, in their most common form, are oxygen
demanding organic materials such as human sewage and pulp mill wastes.
Organic wastes are decomposed into inorganic constituents by the biota,
m[ostly bacteria, which feed on them. In this process, the dissolved
oxygen naturally present in water is used up. The inorganic consti-
tuents which result are primarily nitrogen, phosphorous, and simple
carbon compounds - all basic plant nutrients.
6.   Dissolved Oxygen (DO) content is one of the major factors determining
the quality of water (e.g. high levels of DO are necessary to sustain
most fish life). Organic matter discharged into water uses up oxygen
as it decomposes. Nutrient laden effluent results in algae growth
which can become so dense that photosynthesis fails to reach lower
levels of the algae population; part of the algae dies, releasing
organic debris, and this in turn uses up more oxygen as it decays.
When the oxygen content is exhausted, the entire aerobic aquatic
cycle collapses and the water body is anaerobic, i.e. "dead".



7. Ecology refers to the relationship between organisms and their environ-
ment, including the man/environment relationship.
8. Environment is the totality of natural and man-made external conditions
which affect organisms directly or indirectly in both the short and
long-run; economically, the environment is a non-reproducible capital
asset which produces a stream of valuable goods and services for man
which are tangible (e.g. raw materials), intangible (e.g. aesthetic
scenery), or functional (e.g. dispersion and degradation of waste).
9. Environmental Quality is the level and composition of all the goods
and services derived from natural and man-made external conditions.
The ultimate measure of environmental quality is the value which people
place on environmental goods and services, regardless of whether or not
a price can be put on these services.
10. Eutrophication is the aging process of a lake which results from exces-
sive nutrient enrichment. This often results in a decline in DO and
can be characterized by large algae blooms and odors.
11. Exotic Wastes are best exemplified by synthetic organic chemicals pro-
duced by modern technology, such as pesticides (DDT) and radioactive
materials. Because of their sometimes complex molecular chains, these
wastes degrade at a very slow rate and therefore become widespread and
persistent, Often they are concentrated by organisms to dangerous
levels.
12. "Non-degradable" Wastes are those wastes which are not decomposed by
water biota. They may settle to the bottom of the water body or become
diluted. The primary non-degradable substances are inorganic chemicals
(like mercury), salts, colloidal matter. They may be concentrated
by organisms to dangerous levels.
13. Pollution, in economic terms, is the reduction in environmental quality
resulting from the disposal of residuals (wastes).
14. Pollution Costs are measured by the value of environmental goods and
services foregone because of the disposal of wastes. Pollution costs
can be identified and defined, even if they cannot be precisely quantified.
15.  Residuals are materials (and energy) which enter water-courses both
naturally and through man's activites. Wastes are those residuals which
are leftovers from man's production consumption and activities; if re-
covered and reused as inputs, they are no longer wastes but resources.
16. Solids include suspended solids (removable by filter paper) and dis-
solved solids (those which pass through filter paper).
17. Toxic Substances either directly poison organisms or alter their environ-
ment so that they are affected. Examples are cyanides, phenols, pesti-
cides, herbicides, and heavy metal salts - all these being wastes
produced by industrial processes.



- vi -
18. Water Pollutants are the residuals (wastes) discharged by water-users.
They fall into the following categories: bio-degradable substances,
inorganic compounds, toxics and suspended solids (both organic and
:inorganic), ;vathogenic substances, oils, radioactive materials, and
heat.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Finland has asked the Bank for assistance to help
finance expenditures by industry during the ten year national program to con-
trol water pollution (1974-1983). Total cost of the national program is es-
timated at Fmnk 1,800 million (1974 prices). The Bank project would involve
a 15 year loan of $20 million to finance about 65% of the foreign exchange
costs to be incurred by industry during the 1975-1977 period; the project
also involves research necessary for planning Finland's future pollution
control efforts. The balance of funds needed for investments during 1975-
1977 would be obtained through term borrowings from Finnish Banks and self-
financing by the industries concerned. A Bank loan would provide the foreign
exchange needed for full implementation of the national program. The borrower
would be Mortgage Bank of Finland Oy which, together with the National Board
of Waters, would appraise and supervise sub-loans to 20-30 industrial compa-
nies. Each of these sub-borrowers has specific targets set by authorities
for reducing the amount of effluent they discharge.
1.02      Bank assistance in pollution control was first discussed with the
Government in 1970. A reconnaissance mission in 1972 verified that a project
would be feasible and probably ready for appraisal within two years. In
November 1973 a pre-appraisal mission discussed the economic methodology to
be employed and, thereafter, some of the Bank's ideas were taken into consid-
eration by the Government in its planning. A Finnish delegation visited
Washington in June, 1974 for substantive discussions, and the Bank's appraisal
mission followed up four months later. This would be the first Bank loan ever
made for the purpose of financing industrial pollution control investments on
a nationwide basis.
II. THE ENVIRONMENT
Economic Situation
2.01      In 1974 GDP growth in real terms was about 5.3%.  Domestic demand
exceeded the existing production potential, as it has done for several years.
Domestic and foreign cost factors, particularly the price of imported oil,
increased the disequilibrium in Finland's balance of payments: the current
account deficit was Fmk 4.3 billion which, in relation to GDP, was third
highest of all OECD countries. The cost of living rose by 17% in 1974, while
unemployment was the lowest in a decade. In view of these pressures and im-
balances, the Government tightened the stringent monetary measures already in
effect. The economic outlook for 1975 is not encouraging, since Finland's
trade deficit is not expected to improve. Also, opportunities for increasing
production are limited due to shortages of investment capital, skilled labor,
and certain raw materials. The Finnish economy has been and will remain par-
ticularly susceptible to cyclical fluctuations because of the significant role
played by exports (31% of GDP) and the fact that half these exports come from
one sector, the wood-processing industry.



- 2 -
2.02       Gross official reserves currently cover about 4 weeks' imports.
Total net foreign debt is equivalent to 14.7% of GDP, while debt service
amounts to about 10% of annual foreign exchange receipts. These figures
reflect the underlying fact that Finland is chronically capital short, in
spite of a high propensity to save (gross savings average 27% of GDP). Since
a further increase in savings is unlikely and since taxation rates are already
very high, the main source of additional capital is foreign loans and credits.
however, during 1974 unfavorable conditions in international markets caused
Finland to restrain its long-term borrowing activities. In addition, the
country's special political position is an underlying factor which historically
has influenced the ability to borrow abroad. Given its dependence on imported
oil, the trade deficit and existing debt burden, Finland has to be more se-
lective than ever in its foreign borrowing. The consequences of being capital
short affect the organization of the financial community (see Annex 1 for
description) and result in the Government's policy of lending directly to
industry for those investment programs having a social impact.
Industrial Sector
2.03       In 1973 the share of industry in GDP was 34%, compared to 12% for
agriculture and forestry. About 27% of the working force is employed in in-
dustry. Public sector industries (mainly in the field of chemicals, wood
processing and metals) account for about 15% of the value of production,
while the remaining 85% comes from privately owned industries. For 1974 the
annual average rate of increase in manufacturing output is estimated at 6.6%,,
compared to 6.3% in 1973 and 12.1% in 1972. As skilled labor has become more
and more scarce, the capital intensity of industrial production' has increased.
2.04       The structure of industries has been changing with the dominant
share of the wood-processing industries declining from 26% of total manufac-
turing output in 1969 to 22% in 1973. Metal, metal products, and metal en-
gineering industries, taken together, have surpassed wood-processing indus-
tries and contributed 26% of total manufacturing in 1973. Of the remaining
branches, the food industry stands out with a share of almost 10%. Production
of electrical machinery expanded the most rapidly of all industrial branches
with an annual growth rate exceeding 30%, from 1969 to 1973, while average
growth in industrial manufacturing production was about 16% during the same
period. Fimnish design products have continued to enjoy a good export market
in the field of engineering products, clothing, furniture, glassware and
ceramics. Only 13% of all manufacturing establishments employ more than 100
persons, yet they produce more than 70% of the value added. The larger sized
establishments are primarily in pulp, paper, and metals.
Wood-Processing Industries
2.05       Forestry and the manufacture of pulp, paper and wood products con-
stitute the largest single economic activity. Over the past twenty-five years
wood-processing industries have undertaken major investment programs aimed at
moderniization and expansion and, as a result, for many years have grown at a
faster rate than tlle rest of the economy. This reflects the fact that Finlandl
has a comparative advantage in manufacturing wood products. (The Bank Group



participated in financing the investments of 21 pulp and paper companies in
the 1949-61 period, extending 6 loans totalling some $93 million; all proj-
ects were successfully completed.) The wood-processing industries currently
account for almost 20% of the value added in the manufacturing sector and
provide 17% of the industrial employment. Exports of the wood-processing
industries amounted to 53% of total Finnish exports in 1973 and 55% in 1974.
About two-thirds of the wood-processing industries' output is pulp and paper,
with the remainder being sawn wood, plywood, particle board, and other prod-
ucts. Finland's pulp and paper industry is the second largest in Europe,
ranking after Sweden, and accounts for about 5-6% of world pulp exports and
15-16% of paper and paper-board. Details about production and exports of
the wood-processing industries are given in Annex 2.
2.06      At present Finland has 25 pulp and paper companies and two small
manufacturers of paperboard. The Government's interest is limited to owner-
ship of two companies and majority participation in two others; the remaining
companies are privately owned, of which ten are quoted on the Helsinki stock
exchange along with one of the companies in which the Government has an in-
terest. A few of the very large pulp and paper companies are also engaged
in other industrial activities, such as mechanical engineering, shipbuilding
and chemicals. Altogether the companies operate 66 wood pulp mills, grouped
in 37 different locations, mostly in the southern part of the country and
away from the sea (see Map 1). Pulp mill capacities in 1972 were as follows:
No. of Pulp Mills Million Tons/Year
Sulfite                                17                   1.5
Kraft                                  16                   3.2
Semichemical                            7                   0.4
Mechanical                             26                   2.2
Total                       66                    7.3
Besides these 66 pulp mills, there are 36 integrated and 10 non-integrated
paper and paper board mills. The total number of pulp and paper mill loca-
tions in the country is 40. Because capacity is greater than what Finland's
forests can produce, the pulp and paper industry has been importing 5-10%
of its raw material from the Soviet Union.
2.07      Many mills producing paper-grade pulp are up to date technologically
and plants are large compared to those in other Nordic countries: Average
annual capacities in Finland are about 200,000 tons for a Kraft mill and
90,000 tons for sulfite pulp. About half of the chemical pulp production is
represented by bleached qualities which, because of the chlorine used, adds
considerably to the problem of water pollution. The sulfite pulp mills create
the most serious pollution problems and are gradually being replaced by the
more modern and cleaner kraft mills, whose liquid residuals are negligible;
however, kraft mills cause air pollution in the form of an obnoxious odor.
It has already been decided to close down five of the older sulfite mills
and one semi-chemical mill within the next few years.



- 4 -
2.08      In spite of favorable projections for pulp and paper products in the
international market in the medium term, the expansion of Finland's capacity
is expected to average only about 3% a year during the next four years. Of
the new investment required, approximately Fmk 400-450 million has already
been scheduled and approved by authorities (only one investment is for a new
plant; the rest are for expansion and modernization of existing facilities).
The major constraint on the growth of Finland's pulp and paper industries is
the limited supply of raw material. The total cut from Finnish forests
amounted to about 55 million m3 in 1973, 51 million of which was for indus-
trial use.   The Government is continuing its program for improved reforesta-
tion. (The Bank loaned $20 million in 1972 to a project which is part of this
program and will produce an additional 31 million m3 of roundwood over a
20-year period.) The program is expected to increase available raw material
by 4.4 million m3 in 1978 and 10.5 million m3 in 1985. In spite of these
effort:s, it will be necessary to continue roundwood imports in order to
permit the planned expansion of the industry. Even with the existing allow-
able cut, the cost of raw materials puts Finland's industry at somewhat of a
disadvantage compared to some of its international competitors. This is be-
cause Finnish companies only own 7% of the country's forest reserves and must
buy most of their timber from the farmers who own 65% of the forest land.
These farmers are well organized and follow international prices when selling
to the wood-processing industries.
2.09      Before the increase in oil prices, the share of energy in produc-
tion costs of the pulp and paper industry ranged between 7 and 15%, depending
on the type of mill, whereas at present it is estimated at between 15 and 20A;.
In spite of increased raw material and energy costs the competitive standing
of the Finnish forest industry can be considered to be satisfactory. Com-
parative advantages are good infrastructure, the generally high level of
technology, expertise in marketing, short transport distances to main markets,
and Government support in trade agreements with customer countries. Over half
of Finnish exports of wood products and pulp and paper are absorbed by the
EEC, and this share is expected to reach two-thirds within the next few years.
The EEC tariff is nil on imports of pulp, newsprint and sawmill goods; paper,
other than newsprint and paperboard, belong to the list of "sensitive goods"
for which complete exemption from customs duty will not occur until 1985.
Overall, in view of an estimated supply deficit of about 10 million tons of
paper and paperboard in the EEC as of 1980, the outlook of wood-processing
industries is optimistic. The main thrust of future development will be to
increase forest growth and further integrate production facilities.
III. WATER RESOURCES AND POLLUTION
Finland's Water Resources
3.01      Finland has approximately 60,000 lakes which take up about 10X of
the cotutry's total area. The formation of the land was shaped during the
glacial period and, consequently, Finland's lakes have rather unique charac-
teristics which are important to an understanding of the country's pollution
problems.  The average depth of the lakes is only seven meters, with only



- 5 -
two lakes reaching depths of 100 meters. The main shorelines are generally
unbroken, reflecting the direction in which the glaciers had moved; the lakes
are often connected by sounds and have numerous islands. As a result of
these phenomena, for every inhabitant of the country there are about 100 meters
of shoreline. The volume of water from Finnish territory moves principally
through the main watersheds into the Gulf of Bothnia (55%), Gulf of Finland
and the Saaristomeri area (18%), and Lake Ladoga (18%); (for geography see Map
No. 1). Precipitation is an average 540 mm/year for the country, of which
20-40% is in the form of snow, depending on the latitude. Since the lakes are
shallow and therefore of low capacity, total precipitation in one year would
more than fill them, were it not for run-off and evaporation which varies
from 150 mm to 350 mm/year. All the lakes freeze even during the mildest
winters and are ice covered for 160 to 200 days. The surface water is mostly
clear, though brown in color due to the abundance of humus; the water has a
slightly acid taste. Ground water resources are thin, close to the surface,
originate solely from rain, and are generally of good quality and suitable
for drinking.
Ownership
3.02      The ownership of water resources is based on traditional law,
according to which water areas are actually held as property and considered
to be real estate. The guiding principle is that water belongs to the owner
of the land which has shoreline. The state, municipalities and communities
own more than the private sector, but there are also many individuals and
firms which have holdings. Owners have the right to use their property for
water supply, water power, construction, and fishing of all kinds. However,
"iusus publicus" is also recognized and permits individuals to cross property
lines and use water bodies for drinking, swimming, other water sports and
fishing (only angling); also timber floating is permitted under a complex set
of regulations. The use of water bodies for disposal of waste is also legiti-
mate, but laws passed since 1902 have progressively restricted this right.
Water Uses
3.03      The economic life of Finland is greatly dependent upon and influ-
enced by the water system. About 85% of all goods in foreign trade move on
the Baltic, and 20% of domestic goods traffic is on lakes, rivers and canals.
The waterways have been strategic in the development of the woodworking in-
dustries: historically water has been the primary means for moving timber
and as a source of hydro-power for muills. Agriculture uses the water sys-
tem for irrigation and for expansion of cultivation (5% of aerable land is
reclaimed lake bottom). The capacity of Finland's inland and coastal waters
to produce fish is modest. Professional commercial fishermen number about
8,500 of which about one fourth treat fishing as their principal occupation;
it is estimated that one million Finns catch fish for their own consumption
and recreation. The use of water in Finland exceeds that of any other country
in Europe, on a per capita basis, and is a result of the high rate of con-
sumption by woodworking industries which take 65 m3/s, compared to 15 m3/s by
other industry and 9m /s by the general population.  The total quantity of



- 6 -
water used in the woodworking industries is declining due to changes in tech-
nology and pollution control measures; however, other industries are constantly
increasing their water consumption. Communities draw about 70% of their water
from surface resources and 30% from ground water. Total water consumed in the
country is still only 3.5% of the average flow of the watercourses. Although
used extensively for local transport, there is only one waterway (the Vuoksi
Watercourse) connected with the sea which can be used for commercial purposes.
Inland water routes have been thoroughly improved and are greatly used for
loose timber floating and transport of timber on rafts. The potential for
creating water power is not great, since the country is so flat. Neverthe-
less, the bigger rivers have been dammed up, waterfalls harnessed and there
are at present 43 power stations of the 10 MW class, with over 100 smaller
ones.  Hydro-power satisfies 32% of electric and 12% of total energy require-
ments in the country (1972 figures), and its relative importance is diminishing
as demand for power grows.
3.04      Water resources have long been important for recreational purposes
in Finland, and their significance is increasing as a result of the rise in
the stiandard of living. Nationally, an estimated 80% of all leisure time is
spent at places on or near the water, within three hours drive from home. Use
of waterways for recreation is becoming a problem, however, because 50% of
the population lives in the south and south-west coastal region (15% of the
country's area) where there is relatively little shoreline compared to the
other regions of Finland. The situation around lielsinki, in particular, has
worsened due to water pollution and the population increase (in 1949, 60% of
the summer cottages of inhabitants in the Helsinki area were within 20 km,
while, by 1965, only 20% were within that distance).  In 1960 there were
88,000 vacation cottages, and by 1974 the number had grown to about 200,000;
the number is expected to reach 600,000 by the year 2000 (equivalent to one
cottage for every eight inhabitants if Finland's population stays at current
levels, as is expected). The price of shoreline real estate in Southern
Finland has already reached a level which inhibits development somewhat; the
Government is also setting aside areas for recreational use by the general
public. Foreign tourism is an increasingly important industry, the great
bulk of it being in the summer to the Southern seacoast and lakes.
Water Pollution
3.05      Finland's water resources are especially susceptible to pollution.
The lakes are shallow and, when oxygen content drops, eutrophication can
occur. Because the water courses have an intrinsically rich organic load,
eutrophication even occurs without the impetus of man-made pollution. Un-
like rivers which constantly flush themselves out, the water in Finland's
lakes moves slowly and thus has a much lower capacity to process waste ma-
terials. The ice which covers the lakes during the long winter prevents
aeration. Thus, just before the spring thaw, pollution is at its worst be-
cause dissolved oxygen is low and water flow is diminished. A second peak
period for pollution is at the end of the summer when there is thermal strat-
ification in the lakes and thus little movement of water. The sea coast areas
are also polluted, because they are shallow, the water is naturally brackish,
the island network hampers exchange of water with the open sea, and the Baltic
Sea is already polluted from other sources besides Finland (see para 4.13).



- 7 -
3.06      It is estimated that one-fourth of the population lives on or near
severely polluted water bodies and another one-fourth near mildly polluted
water. This reflects the fact that water pollution is predominantly in the
southern part of the country where population density is highest (see Map 1).
Also, about one-fourth of the population lives in areas where the municipal
water supply is taken from surface sources which are marginal. Most of the
rivers are only in satisfactory condition at best, while their outlets on the
coast are among the worst polluted areas. There are about 100 km2 of sea
coastal areas which are severely polluted and another 240 km2 in a state of
deterioration. The trend of continued urbanization and industrialization
indicates that pollution will accelerate unless effective counter-measures
are taken as soon as possible.
3.07      The 1972 base line data for the measurement of pollution, in quan-
tity and quality, is shown in Annex 3. Municipal sewage accounted for 8% of
the BOD load, 60% of the phosphorus, and 55% of the nitrogen, with the balance
of these pollutants coming from industry. The waste water load from munici-
palities has, in fact, been more or less constant since 1970. At the end of
1973, about 60% of the country's population lived in buildings connected to
sewerage systems. In total effect, it is industry, particularly wood-
processing, which is the major polluter of Finland's watercourses when all
pollutants are considered, i.e., not just bio-degradable substances but also
inorganic compounds, suspended solids, toxics, and heat. The water used and
effluents discharged by Finland's wood-processing industries are significantly
higher, in almost all regards, than the averages for all 16 OECD countries,
as follows (1970 data):
Branch of Pulp        Use of Water         Suspended Solids          BOD
and Paper              cu.m./ton                kg/ton            kg 02/ton
Industry            Finland       OECD      Finland   OECD      Finland  OECD
Sulfite
--unbleached          417          258         63       38         109    156
--bleached            572          365         63       39         146    222
Kraft
non-integrated
--unbleached          490          269         47       27          40      30
--bleached            316          248         23      28           46      40
integrated
--unbleached          273          215         30       16          46      21
--bleached            357          296         35       20          75      35
Semi-chemical          45           87         20       18          36      71
Other paper and
paperboard
Fibreboard             52           42         16      22           43      44
Newsprint              61          119/1       27       29/1        15      40/1
/1   The high OECD values are due to the fact that, in Canada, the loads from
sulfite mills which are integrated with the newsprint mills are included
in the newsprint figures.



- 8 -
3.08      After pulp and paper, the chemical sector is,the next most signifi-
cant industrial polluter. Environmental protection measures at Finland's two
oil refineries and three petrochemical centers are in step with the state
of the art, and the chemical by-products discharged are less of a problem
than thermal pollution, oil leakage and occurrence of accidental spills. The
fertilizer industry is situated at five locations, all but one on the sea
coast, and its most detrimental discharges are inorganic compounds and heavy
metals; only one plant is using the most advanced pollution control measures.
Other chemical industries are also a problem. The food processing industry
ranks as a significant polluter, and the hazards it poses to water courses
are primarily increased oxygen demand and eutrophication. W4ater pollution
caused by the dispersed run-off from non-point sources - farming, livestock,
forestry, and human activity - is insignificant compared to pollutants from
industry and actually less than the phosphorous and nitrogen load caused by
nature. Systematic fertilization of forests was only started in 1972, and
authorities are aware of the dangers to water pollution, through run-off,
and are monitoring the results.
IV. POLLUTION CONTROL
Legislation
4.01      The first relevant law was the Water Act of 1902, subsequently ex-
panded and amended and in effect for almost sixty years. After World War II,
rapid industrialization and increased deterioration of water courses revealed
deficiencies in existing legislation so the Water Act of 1962 was passed, and
it is now the principal law affecting water use in the country. It is very
comprehensive and sets forth regulations dealing with all conceivable uses of
water and waterways. Unless permission has been properly obtained, the law
prohibits blocking, changing, or spoiling watercourses. With regard to waste
water, permission cannot be granted if the proposed project would endanger
public health, cause extensive changes in the environment, or seriously impair
local housing and trade. When permission is granted for discharging waste
water the following criteria must be met: (i) the enterprises should have
possession of the greater part of the water area being used; (ii) any damage
caused should be relatively small in comparison with the gross benefits ob-
tained; (iii) removal of waste waters or prevention of pollution should be
at a reasonable cost; and (iv) in any case, there should be "sufficient"
purification of the waste water before it is discharged.
4.02      Legislation specifically devised for controlling air pollution does
not yet exist but is in the process of being drafted for presentation to
Parliament sometime in 1975. Meanwhile, the Public Health Act of 1965 and
the Neighbor Relationship Act of 1920 are used to bring action against serious
polluters. The air quality in Finland's biggest cities and certain industrial
towns is, at times, worse than generally recognized standards recommend. The



new legislation will provide for air quality criteria, licensing and enforce-
ment. The possibility of conflict 1/ or institutional duplication between
efforts to control air and water pollution is recognized, and the Government
has undertaken to send draft legislation on air pollution by industry to the
Bank for comment.
Water Courts
4.03      The Water Act of 1962 founded the system of Water Courts.  There
are three district Water Courts covering the three regions of the country,
and their primary responsibility is to issue and review licenses. For
criminal suits and damages there is a Water Court of Appeals and, for chang-
ing the terms of permits, a Supreme Administrative Court. (The volume of
cases handled by all the Courts from 1971 to 1973, the terms of licenses,
and those cases specifically relating to the discharge of waste water are
set forth in Annex 4). The procedure.for obtaining a license for water usage
can be simple or complicated, relatively quick or time-consuming, depending
upon the size and nature of the applicant's project and the water course to
be affected.  The municipality, public utility, or enterprise presents its
request to the National Board of Waters (NBW) (paras 4.07 to 4.10), which
recommends whether or not a license is needed. If a license is needed, then
a lengthy application must be filed covering a minimum of 12 different points
required by law. The application is submitted to the appropriate district
Water Court which follows one of two procedures: public notification, or
general survey. Public notification involves posting or publishing the ap-
plication in the local community for access to all interested parties three
months in advance of project works. The general survey is a more complicated
process involving public hearings. After studying the license application,
the report of i'BW experts, and considering the reactions of the general public,
the Water Court reaches its decision about the license. About 60% of license
applications are granted within 12 months, though it is theoretically possible
for a delay in licensing to be as long as two years. The validity of licenses
runs from two to five years, averaging about four years. Temporary licenses
are usually valid for up to two years. The Water Courts are given the power
to suspend or revoke licenses and require a new application of any licensee;
thus, the Courts have authority for constant review. If failure to perform
under the terms of a license occurs, a law suit or a criminal case results
and is handled by the Water Court of Appeals (compensation can be from 100
to 150 percent of the damages and recently has been averaging Fmk 20,000). 2/
If there is an appeal concerning the terms of the license, then the case goes
to the Supreme Administrative Court.
1/   Waste black liquor of a pulp mill pollutes watercourses unless it is
burned and evaporated, but this process results in air pollution by
malodorous gases, flying ash, and sulfur dioxide. Thus, reducing water
pollution can increase air pollution if other measures are also not taken.
2/   The biggest pending case before the Water Court of Appeals has been
brought by about 280 residents on Lake Saimaa which has become polluted,
mainly due to two pulp mills. Damages of Fmk 5 million have been offered
but rejected by the residents who are asking for more.



- 10 -
4.04      Each water license is specifically tailored to the requirements of
the applicant and the recipient water body.  ilo uniform effluent standard is
applied; instead of equal treatment, each applicant and licensee is dealt
with on the basis of the particular water body's characteristics, nature of
effluent discharged, and the control technology and economics involved. This
procecdure may lead to abuses, yet, it seems to work and complaints about in-
equity in this regard are rarely heard; the reason for this is that the com-
petence of the judges and the conduct of the Water Courts have been above
reproach. Unlike most countries, it must be emphasized that in Finland water
areas are owned as real property, so the owner has the inherent right to freely
dispose of his property except insomuch as this is prohibited by law. The
Water Courts interpret this law, and that is why the licensing system exists.
4.05      Various criticisms have nevertheless been voiced about certain
other aspects of the Water Courts' operations: (i) the licensing and appeal
procedures are too complex and time consuming; (ii) the licenses issued are
too lenient on the polluters; and (iii) there is no particular incentive to
guard against accidental discharges. Although there were considerable delays
in the past, due primarily to the overload of work, the Water Courts obtained
additional staff in 1974, and the processing of cases has consequently im-
proved. When delays occur, it is almost always due to technical difficulties
encountered when trying to ascertain the facts, rather than due to stalling
tactics employed by the water users. The allegation that the Courts are too
lenient cannot be supported or denied in general terms, but only on a case
by case basis. Even when true, it should be recognized that Finnish law
fully provides for injured parties to seek redress through damage suits,
amendment or suspension of licenses, and even shutting down the operations
of the polluter. Often the plaintiff in court is not a private citizen or
group but, in fact, the NBW which reports violations of licenses. The most
serious criticism of the licensing system concerns accidental discharges
which, unless the accident is of such a magnitude as to be noticed by author-
ities or other users of the water body, can escape detection and penalty.
The lonig-run solution to this problem lies in improved monitoring techniques
(see para 4.10). In the meantime, the Water Courts could institute additional
penalties for accidental discharges, such as stiffer fines, in order to in-
crease the incentive for industries to establish appropriate control and
alarm systems where needed.
4.06      A number of proposals have been made on how to improve the licensing
procedures such as abolishing the Water Courts and having licenses issued by
an administrative body (e.g. the NBW), giving licensing authority to the ap-
propriate ministry, or establishing specialized Water Courts to deal exclu-
sively with the pulp and paper industry. The Government is giving consider-
ation to various changes, but it is doubtful if there will be any action in
the near future. The Bank's recommendations have been communicated to Finnish
authorities about the need for (i) new measures to streamline licensing and
appeal procedures in the Water Courts, and (ii) increased penalties against
accidental discharges by industries.



- 1 1 -
National Board of Waters (NBW)
4.07      Water administration is the responsibility of the NBW which was
established in 1970 under the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. The
functions of the NBW are to promote and supervise the use, care, and research
of water resources (it does not concern itself with water traffic or fisheries).
The organization chart, personnel, description of tasks, and budget are set
forth in Annex 5. As of June 30, 1974 the NBW had 1,356 employes, 463 in the
central administration and 893 in the 13 district offices. The calibre of
employes is good and management is both capable and innovative. The biggest
fundamental problem the NBW has in discharging its responsibilities is ob-
taining adequate funding from the Government's budget.
4.08      The most important functions of the NBW with relation to the imple-
mentation of the national program for water pollution control are (i) examin-
ing the license applications of water users; (ii) representing the I4BW and the
public interest in the proceedings of the Water Courts; (iii) supervising the
implementation of water regulations and over 10,000 court decisions which per-
tain to them; and (iv) inspecting and monitoring the condition of water bodies.
The heart of NBW's operation which bears on the control of water pollution and
the functions listed above is its capability for measuring the discharge of
residuals (wastes) and the ambient water quality. The NBW has about 600
sampling stations and 7,500 check points for taking water quality readings.
In 1973, it took about 27,000 water samples from which approximately 350,000
water analyses were made in the NBW's laboratories. To handle this flood of
data, the NBW concluded an agreement in 1971 with the Government's Data
Processing Center to establish a water quality register, programmed to con-
tain over two million water analyses which date back to 1961; the data bank
is being compiled but is still a long way from being complete. During nego-
tiations the Government agreed to provide the NBW with the resources needed
to complete and maintain the data bank.
4.09      MIonitoring Pollution.  Personnel in the District Offices are backed
up by the Supervision and Inspection Division, Technical Division, and the
Research Institute in monitoring pollution (a description of the principles
involved in monitoring is given in Annex 6). Tlhe primary responsibility for
reporting pollution discharged and quality of the water being used lies with
the polluter who must send reports to the NWB of a nature and with a frequency
which has been stipulated in the water license. The monitoring procedures of
the polluter have to be approved by the NBW. In many cases, water users have
to report as often as monthly on more than a dozen parameters which are to be
measured daily. All industries, with but two exceptions; employ outside con-
sultants to take the 35,000 - 40,000 water quality readings required under
existing licenses. There are about 15 of these consultant firms, and they
have to be approved by the NBW for their employment by the licensees; if
untrustworthy, they are disqualified. The District Offices of the NBW spot
check about 5% of periodic reports submitted. As a back-up for monitoring,
the NBW, of course, has at its disposal the ambient water quality measurements
taken at its more than 600 sampling stations and 7,500 check points (see para
4.08). If the reports by consultants employed by the polluters are not ac-
curate and pollution is greater than indicated, it will show up as a depre-
ciation of ambient water quality on the entire lake or river affected, though



- 12 -
there is of course a time lag and other variables also come into play (the
source of the increase in pollution may in some cases be difficult to trace
if a good aquatic model of the water body affected is not available). Given
the methods of monitoring available, the NBW found reason to take legal action
against 39 cases of license violation in 1973, compared to 27 in 1972 and 31
in 1971. Well over 100 cases of alleged violations are brought to the NBW's
attention each year.
4.10      Although the water quality monitoring system employed in Finland is
fairly reliable, it has some basic deficiencies which the NBW readily recog-
nizes. The need is for additional and more qualified personnel, to be em-
ployed in the laboratories and field work of the District Offices so that
spot checks of polluters' reports can be done at a higher rate of frequency.
To do its job better NBW also needs more sophisticated laboratory and research
equipment, specifically, six mobile monitoring units for analysis of water at
specific points, 10 stationary automatic monitoring stations (with a common
computer center) 1/ for use on river basins, and eight additional staff to
operate these new monitoring stations.  The capital cost of the aforementioned
equipment is estimated at Fmk 6.5 million, and almost all of it can be procured
from Finnish manufacturers (imported components nevertheless amount to approx-
imatelv 45% of locally procured equipment). The operating costs of equipment
plus the expense of additional personnel would be about Fmk 1.2 million per
annum. The Government has undertaken to do its best to provide NBW with the
resources needed (i) to procure monitoring equipment to be in operation not
later than December 31, 1977, namely, mobile monitoring units, stationery
automatic monitoring stations with a common computer center, and related
laboratory equipment; and (ii) to employ the staff required for the operation
of this equipment.
Approaches to Water Pollution Control in Industry
4.11      There are a number of approaches being followed in Finland to re-
duce water pollution caused by industries, particularly pulp and paper pro-
ducers who are by far the biggest polluters. First, the rate of production
can itself be cut back, though this is obviously a drastic measure which can
have costs greater than the benefits derived. In Finland, this method has
been followed in the case of two old sulfite pulp mills which have been closed
1/   Transport and manual analysis of water samples is slow, expensive, and
inefficient. The desirable alternative is to cover pollution sources
with one control system, which is automated, so that samples are analyzed
at the site in substations and the results transmitted to a control
center for logging. An alarm system is incorporated to spot accidental
spills immediately. Telemetry systems to do monitoring, of Finnish
manufacture, have been in operation since 1971 in public utilities,
railways and pipelines. One of these stationary telemetry systems is
about to go into operation for the NBW in Western Finland. A mobile
automatic monitoring unit has also been developed wihich uses telephone
lines to communicate with a central unit. Automated control systems
can report on parameters such as flow velocity, temperature, DO, and
suspended solids (but not BOD or COD).



- 13 -
down and others which will be phased out of production in the next few years
(their capital equipment will be needing replacement and the high cost is not
justified since, in any case, the sulfite process is outdated for the kinds
of pulp and paper Finland produces). The result of this approach is that
the composition of industry's contribution to GDP is altered so that more
goods which generate a lower level of pollutants are produced and fewer goods
with a higher-pollution level. Market forces are having this effect in
Finland already, since the metal working industries have been and will con-
tinue to grow at a rate faster than the woodworking industries which are
constrained by available raw material. The second way to reduce pollution is
to increase technical and engineering efficiency in order to raise the ratio
of usable output to material input; this is being done throughout the Finnish
industrial sector through the normal modernization process and is encouraged
by the Government's incentives for pollution control investment (see para
4.17). A third way is to recover residuals and to recycle them as material
inputs; the constraint to this approach occurs when the cost of recovery is
greater than the value of the recovered materials. Nevertheless, recovery
and recycling is being done in Finland where it has been the practice of the
pulp and paper industry for many years. Fourth, there is the obvious method
of treating residuals biologically, chemically, or mechanically in order to
reduce the harmfulness of the effluent discharged; this can be done through
both internal process treatment and external treatment. A fifth approach is
to locate new industries in an environment which has a greater capacity to
assimilate residuals, and this the Finns have also been doing. The last
basic approach is to augment the waste-assimilation capacity of the environ-
ment. For example, reservoirs built close to heavily polluted rivers can be
used to release water at periods at low river flow in order to increase dilu-
tion of residuals; or, conversely, residuals can be stored and then released
at periods of high river flow.
4.12      These approaches, excepting the first, involve either a change in
the technology of production or external treatment of residuals (the so-
called "end-of-pipe" solution). For a given level of effluent reduction,
the optimal solution is often to employ both a change in production tech-
nology, particularly internal treatment of residuals, and external treat-
ment. In the past the emphasis has been on the "end-of-the-pipe" solution;
in Finland's pulp and paper industry this is done with settling basins,
mechanical purification plants, and secondary treatment of various kinds
such as aeration lagoons. Recently, with the tightening of pollution regula-
tions and the high costs involved in meeting these standards through "advanced"
external treatment, internal process change has received further consideration
and a trend towards investment for this purpose has occurred. 1/ Finnish pulp
producers are aware of the trade-offs and studies have shown that, overall,
internal process change can be as much as 50%0 cheaper than external treatment
in order to reach the same target of effluent reduction.
1/   Examples of pollution reducing tecinology and internal treatment methods
in pulp mills (Kraft process) are dry debarking of logs, improved washing
efficiency, condensate treatment and oxygen bleaching.



- 14 -
Baltic Sea
4.13      The Baltic is a completely independent and unique marine environ-
ment. It is the largest area of brackish water in the world (average salin-
ity is about one-fifth that of normal sea water). It has only one connection
with the ocean, through the narrow Straits of Denmark. Since the Baltic's
average depth is only 55 meters, it resembles a shallow basin with only one
small outlet. The water is very cold, so biological processes are slowed
down considerably. These exceptional environmental conditions give rise
to unusual flora and fauna. They also make the Baltic particularly sus-
ceptible to pollution, and this is compounded by the fact that there are 150
million people living in its watersheds, in areas which are industrialized
and have fertilizer intensive farming. It is calculated that 80% of the
Baltic's pollutants originate from land areas, with the rest coming from
the heavy traffic of shipping and boating. The Baltic is one of the most
polluted sea areas in the world.
4.14      In 1965 Finland passed a law for the protection of the sea and
began full-fledged efforts to reduce Baltic pollution. In recent years, the
Government has been spending Fmk 10 million on research. In 1973, the Finnish
Government proposed to the countries bordering the Baltic that a diplomatic
conference be held to conclude an agreement on the protection of the sea. As
a result of this effort, the Convention on the Protection of the Marine En-
vironment of the Baltic Sea Area was signed on March 22, 1974 by Governments
of the seven Baltic countries (the Soviet Union, Poland, German Democratic
Republic, Federal Republic of Germany, Denmark, Sweden and Finland). This
Convention is the first comprehensive agreement in the world for the conserva-
tion of a marine environment. It aims at regulating and reducing all activ-
ities contributing to pollution. It lists in detail the pollutants to be
entirely prevented from entering the Baltic and those which must be regu-
lated by authorities; dumping is prohibited. An interim commission has al-
ready identified the scientific problems to be approached jointly, the pres-
ent state of research, and the actions to be taken for new research.
4.15      The implications of the Helsinki Convention for Finland's own pollu-
tion control efforts are significant. Besides the general obligations to
take appropriate legislative, administrative or other relevant measures to
prevent and abate pollution, Finland is required (i) not to introduce into
the Baltic specified substances and materials in significant quantities unless
special permits have been issued by the appropriate national authority; (ii)
to inform the other parties to the Convention about the quantity, quality and
way of discharging the aforementioned substances and materials; (iii) to en-
deavor to establish and adopt common criteria with the other parties for
issuing discharge permits, (iv) to aim at attaining the goals and applying
the criteria enumerated in the Convention; and (v) to use the best practicable
means for minimizing airborne pollution of the Baltic. Finland's current
and future efforts with regard to curbing pollution are designed to meet the
Convention's standards. Specifically, water pollution by existing industries
which affects the Baltic will be reduced under the national program (paras
5.01 to 5.08) while newly established industries will have to meet pollution
criteria at their own cost. It is estimated that about one-third of the



- 15 -
projects which the Bank loan would finance (see paras. 5.09 to 5.18) would
be in industries located on the Baltic or located on watercourses flowing
directly into the Baltic.
Past Investment by Industry in Pollution Control -/
4.16      The first investments by industry to control pollution were made in
the 1950's for sulfite waste liquor evaporation plants. No records were kept
until recently on the amount of investment specifically directed towards the
reduction of industrial effluents. A general estimate is that the capital
costs of such investments was Fmk 225 million for the 1966-1970 period and
over Fmk 400 million from 1971 to 1973. The woodworking industries accounted
for two-thirds of the totals, with the pulp and paper mills located on lakes
contributing the largest share of investment. The basic problem in making
these estimates is how to distinguish the proper cost of pollution control
from the cost of investment which results in increased productivity and pro-
fitability.
4.17      To provide financial incentives to industry for investment in pollu-
tion control, the Government established several specific programs of assist-
ance. Loans from the export levy fund can be made for pollution control pur-
poses upon decision of the Council of Ministers; in practice the maximum term
has been ten years, including two years' grace, at a rate of 5-6%. From 1969
(when loans for such purposes began) through 1973, the total credit extended
was Fmk 41 million and amounted to only 4% of approximately Fmk 1,026 million
in loans requested; more funds were not available in the financial community
(see para. 2.02), and the Government had not yet started the national program.
In 1968 the tax laws were modified to permit full (100%) straight-line depre-
ciation on pollution control equipment of 25% per year, compared to the 30%
per year permitted on a declining balance basis for ordinary capital equip-
ment (resulting in total depreciation of 76% over four years). According
to the Government, few industrial companies have profits sufficient to take
100% depreciation on pollution control equipment in four years. A third
program of financial incentives was established in 1973 whereby the Government
would guarantee commercial term loans (in local or foreign currency) to in-
dustries for the purpose of pollution control investment, among other purposes,
when such firms cannot furnish adequate security to lenders. The constraint
on the use of this facility is that the total amount of such Government gua-
rantees cannot exceed Fmk 150 million, although it is probable that the
limit would be raised if necessary. Both the guaranty facility and loans
out of the export levey fund can only be made if the project lias been ap-
proved by the NBW, which also supervises the borrower's-execution of the
project.
1/   Pollution by municipalities, which is not the subject of th,is report,
has already received great attention in Finland. From 1970 to 1974
about Fnlk 350 million were expended on constructing treatment plants.
At the end of 1973 about 60'% of the population was served by over 400
municipal sewage plants.  Waste water loads from population centers
have been kept more or less constant since 1970.



- 16 -
4.18      Because of the huge demand for funds for pollution control invest-
ment (over Fmk 1,000 million from 1969 to 1973), the inherent limitations of
the above programs, and the chronic capital shortage of the financial commu-
nity which is not disposed to make loans for non-productive investments, the
Government realized that a major funding effort would be required if the long-
term goals for reducing water pollution by industry are to be attained. There-
fore, to meet-this need the Government is undertaking the national program
(1974-1983) which will channel investment capital to industry from the public
sector.
V. THE NATIONAL PROGRMI AND THE PROJECT
The National Program for Water Pollution Control
5.01      The NBW has been the principal agency responsible for drawing up
the national program for controlling water pollution over the next ten years
(1974-1983). 1/ This comprehensive program has been under preparation for
several years due to the complexity of Finland's water system, the wide range
of options available for reducing pollution to a given level, and the large
volume of investment required. To the Finnish people, and their Government,
the need for the national program is obvious in view of the continued deter-
ioration of the environment in the heavily populated areas. The quantitative
object:Lves of the national program for 1980 are rather precise (see Annex 3)
and are based on detailed studies. On a nationwide basis, the targets are a
reduction in the discharge of BOD by 52% and phosphorous by 40%, from 1972
levels, while the discharge of toxic and accumulative substances is to be
stopped entirely; discharge of suspended solids from wood processing will be
reduced 80% and other industrial waste waters will be treated to the same
level as domestic sewage. The targets for 1985, two years after the ten year
program ends, are more general and call for a further reduction of about one-
third from the 1980 levels. It is expected that the cumulative effect of these
measures will be greatly improved ambient water quality in the heavily popu-
lated areas, and this will satisfy to a significant extent the public's demand
for environmental conservation and improvement, leading to a better quality of
life.
5.02      To appreciate the complexity of planning the national program, it
should be recognized that the effort comprises an area of 60,000 lakes, a
very lengthy seacoast, and over 1,000 municipalities and industries of
significant size. The quantitative objectives for 1980 are realistic and
attainable in view of the low marginal cost of reducing major pollutants at
this stage. The costs to municipalities and industries of investments
specifically for pollution control were calculated by NBW on the basis of
1/   This Chapter deals exclusively with the role the industrial sector plays
in the national program and the Bank project; pollution by municipali-
ties and public utilities are not considered except where otherwise
indicated.



- 17 -
recent experience, known technology, questionnaires, and the employment of
consultants. The external benefits of the national program i.e., benefits
beyond those accruing to the polluter, were not calculated for two reasons:
(i) the present state of the art is such that the measurement of external
benefits, much less their quantification, is uniquely difficult; and (ii)
the public demands action now rather than some time later after benefit
studies have been completed. 1/ Given that the Finnish authorities are
motivated by a strong sense of realism, the macro-environmental objectives
must still be translated into effluent reduction targets for individual
water bodies. The connecting links for doing this are the regional plans
which set specific targets for the ambient quality of inter-related water-
ways and for reduction in wastes discharged by the water-users concerned.
This procedure is sound and should insure that the 1980 objectives are
achieved. The national objectives for 1985 are admittedly more approximative
because of the time span and the rapidly developing technology of pollution
control.
5.03      Principles.  The principles for water pollution control to be used
in the national program were published by the Government in July, 1974 in
order to inform industry and the general public about the underlying concepts
of the ten year effort. Industrial pollution is to be methodically reduced
by recycling waste waters, changing the technology of production, treating
residuals both inside and outside the plants, and protecting against acci-
dents through appropriate safety measures and monitoring (see paras 4.09 and
4.10). When it is impossible to prevent waste generation, collection and
joint treatment of wastes on a regional basis is preferred. Proper location
of plants and discharge areas are emphasized, as is the proper use of water
supplies through piping and reservoirs. Watercourses are to be protected and
restored by increasing flow and by instream aeration, precipitation, sludge
removal, and control of plant life. All pollution control measures will be
speeded up, with priority given to the most serious hazards. Regional planning
must be followed, with decisions based on the best available data using the
latest technology. New industrial establishments must automatically include
controls while old plant installations should be modified in stages, as fi-
nancial considerations permit. Water use licenses, which are already being
made more stringent, will be the means whereby the Government enforces the
program.
5.04      The "polluter pays principle" is the basis for financing pollution
control measures and is so stated in the statutes and regulations. Parties
other than the polluter who benefit from improved water quality do not have
to pay for the cost of pollution control, because access to a pollution free
environment is considered a natural right. The final effect of the polluter
pays principle is of course that the consumer may be the one who pays, through
higher product prices (the taxpayers, who are not directly responsible for in-
dustrial pollution, also pay inasmuch as Government expenditures are involved
in planning, implementing, and monitoring the national program). Exceptions
to the "polluter pays principle" occur when urgency, social importance, and
1/   See Bank's "Report on Environmental Aspects of Bank Operations" of
October 17, 1974 (paras. 3.09 and 3.16 and Appendix paras. 1 and 2).



- 18 -
practical difficulties in implementing the required measures dictate that the
public sector bear the cost; examples of this include the need to ensure an
industry's competitiveness, to maintain the financial solvency of a particular
firm, to keep up employment or to develop a certain region. In the future,
the NBW plans to study variations of the polluter pays principle, such as
levying a fee on the amount of waste discharged, i.e., the effluent charges
system.  Another alternative the NBW will study is payment for some of in-
dustry's pollution control costs by parties who receive the benefits, for
example, the lakeshore residents even though they are not the polluters.
5.05      Costs.  For the 1974-1983 period the pollution control costs of
industry have been approximated rather than estimated. 1/ The obvious reasons
for this are that there are several hundred industrial enterprises involved,
and technological developments in this relatively new field continue; there-
fore, there are too many unknown variables to estimate costs with a great
degree of accuracy, although fairly detailed knowledge exists about the pol-
lution control costs and plans of Finland's pulp and paper mills. The NBW
forecasts costs over the 1974-1983 period as follows (in millions):
Foreign Exchange    Wood-Processing
Total Cost          Compoinent            Industry
Share of Total
Fmk    US$            (US$)          Fmk           US$
at estimated prices:       1,800  503            101            1,177         329
Projections indicate an average foreign exchange cormponent of 20,/i, based on
a detailed questionnaire answered by 61 of the 1974 loan applicants under the
nationa:L program; this constituted a fair representative sample (47 were in
wood-processing and 14 in other industries).
5.06      Financing.  General guidelines for the financing of these invest-
ments were approved by Parliament as part of the 1974 budget, and Finnish
authorities have confirmed to the Bank that the cost sharing ratios will be
maintained as total program costs rise over the ten-year program period.
The funds are to come from the following sources:
38.5       Mortgage Bank of Finland (MBF)
38.5       Postipankki (POB) and Government.
23.0       Polluting Industries, self-financing
100.0
1/   Pollution control investments by municipalities are not covered in this
discussion of the national program for industry.  By 1980, about 90% of
waste water in public sewerage systems will be treated biologically;
costs will average Fmk 320 million per year. Government subsidized
loans from the POB will be granted to supplement the funds generated
by mtmicipalities.



- 19 -
MBF is an independent institution whose principal shareholders are the central
bank (66.5%) and POB (33.3%). POB is Government owned. These two banks are
involved in the national program because investments specifically for pollution
control are considered to be unprofitable and non-productive by the private
sector financial community which, being chronically short of funds, is not
interested in financing such projects. In Finland it is the practice for the
Government to provide funds to industry for investments which have a social
impact (see para. 2.02 and Annex 1), and pollution control and the new field
of energy-saving projects in industry fall into this category. MBF is to be
used because it is the subsidiary of the central bank responsible for mobil-
izing and allocating foreign exchange loans to industry, though it also makes
some loans in local currency (see Annex 7 for details on MBF). MBF will ob-
tain its resources for the national program through foreign borrowing and
loans from the central bank. POB is financing pollution control because it
too is an instrument of Government policy, specializes in local currency loans,
and is acquainted with virtually all businesses in the country (see Annex 1,
para. 3). The Government will also make direct loans to industries in order
to supplement, as needed, loans made by iBF and POB. Self-financing by indus-
try covers only 23% of investment costs, because profits and reserves are not
considered adequate to carry more than this after payment of dividends and
financing normal renewal and expansion of plant (N.B.: corporate taxes in
Finland amount to 60-65%).
5.07      Subsidies.  The terms and criteria for loans from MBF, POB and Gov-
ernment are described in paras. 5.13 to 5.16. Although MBF will lend at
market rates, loans from POB and Government will be eligible, "on a case-by-
case basis", for an interest rate subsidy which currently would amount to
2-1/4 - 3-1/4% 1/ -- thus, on an overall investment, the maximum interest
subsidy would be 1-1/4%, since the maximum POB and Government loans are 38.5%
of any project. The interest rate subsidy is deemed desirable by the Govern-
ment in order to get the fullest cooperation from industry in the national
program and to assist in financing investments with a social impact. Similarly,
with regard to the possibility of accelerated depreciation on pollution control
equipment (see para. 4.17), the Government has pointed out that few industrial
companies have had sufficient profits to avail themselves of this tax provi-
sion. As for industry, it claims subsidies are needed and justified because
the tightening of pollution standards are going to entail much bigger invest-
ments now than previously, and international competitiveness could therefore
be affected.
5.08      The subsidy element is comparatively small and is not available
on an across-the-board basis. Also, in general, no industrial plant which
started operations after September 1, 1973 is eligible for loans under the
national program; plants constructed since that date must find their own
financing for pollution control investments. Nevertheless, the Bank has
pointed out and Finnish authorities have taken note of the arguments against
subsidies: (i) marginal firms would not be helped, since accelerated depre-
ciation would be unavailable due to low earnings; (ii) special Governmental
1/   The POB and Government loans when subsidized are at 6-1/2 or 7-1/2%
(see para. 5.13) while the current long-term loan rate in Finland is
about 9-3/4% for prime industrial borrowers (see Annex 1, page 3).



- 20 -
procedures already exist on an ad hoc basis to assist firms in trouble gen-
erally; (iii) subsidies can bias the investment decision in favor of expen-
sive capital equipment; and (iv) subsidies create an incentive for firms to
claim that investments are for pollution control when in fact they are not.
The Project
5.09      The Government has asked the Bank (i) to finance a portion of the
foreign exchange costs for pollution control investments undertaken by indus-
try during the years from 1975 to 1977 as part of the national program, and
(ii) to help design the research activities to be carried out during the next
three years in order to improve the monitoring of pollution control, to in-
crease understanding about the costs and benefits involved, and to explore
alternative approaches to the current system of licenses and subsidies. The
Bank loan would be made to MBF, because it is the Government's chosen instru-
ment for obtaining the foreign exchange needed to finance the national pro-
gram. MBF has borrowed $102 million from the Bank in the past, and its per-
formance was fully satisfactory (see Annex 7). M5BF is a small efficiently
managed organization, has dealt with the larger industrial companies of
Finland for many years, and is well-qualified to appraise and supervise pol-
lution control loans in cooperation with NBW. The loan proceeds would be
passed on to the ultimate borrowers as sub-loans at a rate of 9%, i.e. 1/2
of 1% above cost. Foreign exchange risk would be borne by MBF's borrowers.
The mechanics of the operation would be similar to those involved in Bank
loans to development finance companies. MBF would submit a request to the
Bank for financing each sub-project along with an appraisal of the investment
for the Bank to review before authorizing a sub-loan. There would be a free
limit of $500,000, an aggregate free limit of $5.0 million, and the maximum
sub-loan would be 20% of MBF's equity, i.e. about $3.8 million. 1/ Since the
Bank loan to MBF would be for 15 years, the sub-loans would be for less with
the terms of each sub-loan geared to the circumstances of the sub-project.
A grace period to cover construction time would be allowed. All sub-loans
would be fully secured by mortgages, chattel mortgages, or bank and State
guarantees. The research component of the project would be carried out by
the NBW, in conjunction with consultants, and would be financed by the Gov-
ernment and local sources.
5.10      Project Pipeline.  During 1974, 71 loan applications from 41 com-
panies were submitted to HIBF, POB, and the Government. Though submitted as
soon as the door was opened (October 1974) for loans under the national pro-
gram, these applications actually cover investments planned through 1977.
The aggregate capital cost of these investments is Fmk 939 million, of which
Fmk 538 million is for equipment; loans requested from MBF and POB total
Fmk 690 million. The 30 applications specifically addressed to M5BF came
from 20 companies having total assets in 1973 of Fmk 17,420 million, sales
1/   Besides financial prudence, the reason for imposing this 20% limit is
to prevent MBF from using up the loan proceeds on just a handful of very
large projects, because such an event would considerably reduce the
scope of Bank assistance in implementation of the national program and
in institution building.



- 21 -
of Fmk 11,226 million (64% for export), and 107,096 employees. These loan
applications are being processed and, after rejecting ineligible projects,
the gross investment cost of Fmk 939 million has shrunk to a net of about
Fmk 690 million.  It is estimated that about Fmk 130 million in expenditures
will have already been undertaken by July 1, 1975, so the pipeline of eligible
projects for MBF financing out of the Bank loan would be approximately
Fmk 560 million through December 31, 1977, or about 50 projects by 30 com-
panies.
5.11      Almost all the industrial firms to undertake pollution control in-
vestments to be financed by MBF during the July 1, 1975-December 31, 1977 period
have been identified; two-thirds of them are pulp and paper manufacturers. The
great majority of these firms will have more than one project to do. Most of
the investments will be for in-plant changes in technology and treatment of
residuals, with the rest being for end-of-the pipe measures. It is estimated
that over two-thirds of the investments are required under existing water
licenses which were (i) granted on an "interim" basis needing renewal every
one or two years; (ii) granted on an emergency basis and "valid until further
notice"; (iii) granted with specific conditions attached; or (iv) about to
expire with the industry advised that certain water pollution control invest-
ments must be made for a new license to be issued. Thus, these industries are
requesting loans, because they must undertake the investments in accordance
with licensing decisions if they are to continue their operations. There is
also investment in pollution control that is not immediately required by li-
cense considerations but which is being done because it fits in with changes
in production technology already planned. Given total estimated costs of
about Fmk 560 million over the project period, the foreign exchange portion
(20%) would be roughly Fmk 112 million ($31 million). A Bank loan of $20
million would thus meet about 65% of foreign exchange requirements. The rest
of the foreign exchange required over the project period would be raised by
MBF through other foreign borrowings.
Loan Administration
5.12      The processing of loan applications by Government authorities in-
volves many organizations. Overall responsibility for financing the national
program lies with the Commission for Water Pollution Control Loans, appointed
October 3, 1974 and composed of high level representatives from the Ministries
concerned (Finance, Commerce and Industry, Agriculture and Forestry), Bank
of Finland, MBF, POB and the NBW; the Chairman of the Commission is the
Director General of the NBW. The diagram on loan processing (Annex 13)
appears rather involved, because each regulation governing the use of funds
derived from the various public sources stipulates that certain procedures
be followed. The essential elements are that the loan application is first
reviewed by the appropriate  EBWT District Office, then appraised by the NBW
project unit (TERA) 1/ and reviewed by NBIJ management. Next, the loans and
1/   TERA is a Finnish acronym which, translated, means Working Group for
Financing Pollution Control Investments by Industry. TERA is the basic
project unit and is composed of a qualified director, economist, tech-
nician, and secretary; it should be increased by an additional engineer,
economist, limnologist and secretary.



- 22 -
their conditions are proposed by the NBW to the Commission whose decision is
more or less final. In loan appraisal work the technical and economic as-
pects are analyzed by TERA in accordance with criteria established by the
Commission (see para. 5.13); TERA also draws on NBW's general experience
with indlustry over past years. Financial aspects of the loan and credit-
worthiness of the borrower are examined jointly by the MBF and POB, more or
less simnultaneously with the work being done by TERA. The two banks can
separately veto a loan application, on their own respective lending author-
ities, even though the Commission may recommend the loan. The Government
has given assurances that the TERA working group of NBW will be adequately
staffed.
5.13      Loan Criteria and Appraisal.  General criteria (see Annex 14) have
been established by the Commission and are already in effect for determining
whether a borrower is eligible for water pollution control loans. One pur-
pose of these criteria, besides meeting various Government requirements, is
to ensure that an investment proposed is sufficiently unprofitable to merit
financing out of public funds; otherwise, if profitable (and productive) the
investment could attract a loan from the banking system on the usual commer-
cial terms. To determine the degree of unprofitability, TERA first divides
the overall investment into whatever sub-projects can technically be carried
out separately. The present value of each sub-project is then ascertained
by calcualating the financial rate of return on a cash flow basis. To date,
the majority of the projects analyzed belong to the entirely unprofitable
category and, under present arrangements, attract an interest subsidy loan
from POB and Government bearing a rate of 6-1/2%. 1/ For projects with a
rate of return between zero and 10%, the subsidized loan is at 7-1/2%.
Projects with a rate of return above 10% are not eligible. MBF financing of
water pollution control investments will not have any subsidized interest and
will be at a rate 1/2 of 1% over cost, for foreign exchange, and 1 to 2-1/2%
over cost for local currency. As a rule, 14BF's loans are to be made 50/50 in
foreign exchange and local currency. MBF's combined rate under current market
conditions would be 9-1/2%, which is 1/4 of 1% below the rate for term loans
entirely in local currency (this slight differential represents the foreign
exchange risk the MBF borrower must bear on half of the loan). The amortiza-
tion of each loan, and its grace period, is established in accordance with the
degree of profitability of the project and the overall financial condition of
the borrower. Maximum loan terms are 15 years, maximum five years' grace in-
cluded, though it is envisaged that most loans will be for 10 years with a
shorter grace period to cover time needed for construction. Since MBF, POB
and Government together will cover no more than 77% of project cost and since
their repayment must come out of the industrial enterprises' own cash genera-
tion, there is a clear incentive for industrial borrowers to follow the least
cost approach compatible with the technology of production employed.
1/   The rate of subsidy may be changed from time to time in the light of
experience, since the national program is subject to the annual bud-
getary process.



- 23 -
5.14      The biggest problem in applying the lending criteria will be in
ascertaining the accuracy of the information about capital cost, operating
expenses, savings, and lifetime of the proposed investment. NBW (and TERA)
are qualified to do this, because their experienced staff is familiar with
the major polluting industries and the technology of pollution control meas-
ures. The real costs of projects for external treatment of residuals are
fairly easy to identify. The specific difficulty arises in distinguishing
the net costs of some in-plant measures to reduce pollution, because the com-
plex inter-relationships of productive processes may result in benefits whose
full value only the firm knows about. 1/ Such benefits would of course have
to be deducted from costs in order to determine whether or not the project
fits the definition of unprofitability required for a loan under the national
program. The Government has undertaken to study further refinements in the
method for calculating unprofitability and to apply them, if profitable,
during the course of the Bank project.
5.15      Although technical and economic appraisal is primarily the respon-
sibility of the NBW, and TERA in particular, NBF and POB will review the re-
sults when appraising the financial aspects of loans. It is expected that
POB will follow the final lending proposals made by the Commission, but MBF
is not obliged to. MBF is also not formally obliged by the Government to ap-
ply the lending criteria set forth in Annex 14, although it intends to do
so in practice. Finally, MBF's loans, which will be at market rates, are
not restricted to 38.5% of total project cost as is the case with POB. The
reason MBF is not strictly bound to the Commission's criteria and restric-
tions is that MBF will not be using Government funds to provide subsidies.
It has been and will continue to be MBF's practice to cooperate fully with
the Commission when making loans for pollution control investments by in-
dustry.
5.16      When appraising investments under the Bank project, MBF has con-
firmed that it will follow the lending criteria established by the Commis-
sion, without exceptions. In addition, MBF has agreed to follow more
stringent unprofitability criteria under the Bank project: only those sub-
projects with a zero or negative financial rate of return will be submitted
for authorization under the Bank loan. The principal reason for this pro-
hibition against financing sub-projects with a rate of return up to 10% is
that Bank lending for productive industrial investments in Finland ended in
1970. The major polluters to apply for MBF financing during the 1975-77
1/   Some examples of internal benefits derived through modernization and pol-
lution control in pulp mills -- burning sulphite spent liquor for energy
results in net fuel savings (in Finland it has been estimated that this
yields the annual equivalent of 500,000 tons of coal which would other-
wise have to be imported); wood wastes can be processed to yield tur-
pentine, alcohol, protein, pine oil, and rosins; closing the water-
using processes results in the recapture of chemical inputs which
can in many cases be re-used.



- 24 -
period will almost all be past customers of MBF which knows them well.
It is expected that between 20 and 30 sub-loans will be presented to the
Bank for financing, two thirds or more of them being pulp and paper indus-
tries (some sub-loans would probably cover two or more separate investments).
MBF's staff has the experience and the qualifications to handle appraisal
work adequately in conjunction with TERA. The Bank and MBF have reached
an understanding about the preparation, form and content of MBF sub-project
appraisals. The Government has given assurances that NBW will provide MBF
with the technical and economic assistance needed for appraisal work.
5.17      Project Supervision.  MBF will follow its usual procedures in
supervising sub-loans to its customers under the project. In addition,
the Government has given assurances that NBW will assist IBF in follow-up
work and will give MBF full access to the supervision, inspection, and
monitoring information on industrial water-users gathered by NBW. These
arrangements are satisfactory to the Bank.
Research Component
5.18      During preparation and appraisal, the Bank reached an understanding
with Finnish authorities about the research needed to make the national pro-
gram more effective and to prepare for alternative approaches to pollution
control in the medium- and long-term. The heart of the research revolves
around the need to advance Finland's capabilities in the field of cost-
benefit and systems analysis in water pollution control. The end result
of this endeavor would be to refine or replace the licensing system, whose
deficiencies have already been noted. The research tasks will admittedly be
difficult in view of the complex aquatic environment. There has heretofor
been no urgency to use systems analysis to any significant extent, because
the goals of the national program for 1980 only require a 50% reduction of
pollutants discharged, and the marginal costs to achieve this are low (see
Annex 15 for example of costs in a Kraft mill). However, once the initial
investments have been made, marginal costs will rise sharply, and cost ben-
efit and systems analysis will be needed in order to meet ambient water
quality standards at least cost. Research having both practical and conceptual
dimensions is proposed, and the draft terms of reference are shown in Annex 16.
5.19      Monitoring and Data Collection.  An analysis should be made of the
kinds of water quality data to collect and where and how to collect them (per
Annex 6). A study would then be needed on the specifications and hardware for
a monitoring and collection network to gather the data as indicated by the
above analysis; the most efficient means of sampling, transmitting, analyz-
ing and storing data should be determined. The results of this research
would be used in the design, installation, and operation of the monitoring
equipment to be procured (para. 4.10); the results will also affect use of
the data bank (para. 4.08).



- 25 -
5.20      Aquatic Modeling. 1/  The appropriate research tool for Finland
to develop at this point is an aquatic eco-system model designed specifically
to deal with the trade-offs between levels of water quality and changes in
inputs of different types of residuals. The purely chemical reactions and
biological interactions behave similarly in Finland's relatively homogeneous
lakes and rivers, but the hydrodynamic characteristics -- advection, dispersion,
and mixing phenomena -- are particular and distinct in each water body. What
is least understood about Finland's water system are the hydrodynamic (material
transport) characteristics of the lakes and waterways. The first step in de-
veloping water quality models requires further knowledge about hydrodynamics
and the mixing characteristics of residuals.
5.21      Cost-Benefit and System Analysis.  The national program has cost
estimates for achieving certain overall water quality goals by 1980 and 1985,
but these estimates are not based on cbst functions and water quality models;
that is, the relationship between costs and levels of discharge in order to
ascertain the least cost technology to attain a given level of ambient water
quality was not calculated. As for the external benefits of pollution control
(those which accrue to the non-polluters), they were also not calculated in
designing the national program. In qualitative terms, the external benefits
of satisfying the public's demands for the program -- measuring aesthetics as
a benefit and the social value of people's feelings about the quality of life
-- need to be studied. The main category of benefits that can be identified
in monetary terms in the Finnish situation is recreation: increased use of
lakes for water sports and fishing, and the concomittant rise in real estate
values in the areas being cleaned up. Private ownership of shoreline and
water bodies in Finland presents a unique opportunity for making monetary
evaluations, based on property prices, and for analyzing the distribution of
benefits regionally as well as to income classes. The systems analysis com-
ponent of the research is the link which would integrate residuals discharged
with levels of ambient water quality, using the cost-benefit functions of pol-
lution control.  On the basis of these analyses, different strategies would
be assessed: uniform discharge requirements for all polluters, standards
tailored to each polluter's circumstances, a mixture of both, and the effluent
charges approach.
5.22      Effluent Charges.  As part of the studies on alternate pollution
control strategies, a careful analysis should be made of effluent charges
schemes in such countries as France, Federal Republic of Germany, liungary and
Czechoslovakia. Although there are strong economic arguments in favor of the
effluent charge approach in general, it cannot automatically be assumed to be
applicable in Finland, for practical reasons, because of the large number of
water bodies which would each require systems analysis in order to determine
the fee to be levied per unit of effluent discharged. Also, replacing the
licensing system with effluent charges would require legislation and could
encounter legal difficulties because of traditional property rights involved
1/  See Glossary for definition of modeling.



- 26 -
in water use. In spite of these practical difficulties, the merits of ef-
fluent charges over the licensing/subsidy system are such that substantial
research into its applicability to the Finnish situation is warranted; in
this context, the administrative costs of the two approaches deserve study
and comparison.
5.23      The Baltic Sea.  An international research effort on the Baltic
is underway as a result of the Helsinki Convention (para 4.14). Given the
plans to develop an ecological model of the Baltic, it would be appropriate
for the NBW to get involved since this type of modeling would prove useful
in connection with the aquatic modeling system for Finland's inland waters,
mentioned above. The sources and levels of pollutants discharged into the
Baltic from Finnish territory, the impact of reducing such discharges, and
the costs of doing so to Finland should be estimated.
5.24      The Bank has confirmed that Finnish authorities will undertake the
research described. The components and terms of reference set forth in Annex
16 will not be significantly modified except in consultation witlh the Bank.
The Government and other Finnish institutions will bear the costs and make
available the facilities and manpower needed to carry out the studies indi-
cated above. It is recognized that the total cost of the research, estimated
to be equivalent to about $1.1 million, is not excessive when compared to
total pollution control investments of over $500 million expected during the
ten year national program. The timetable for the monitoring research requires
its completion by March 31, 1976 while the integrated studies (paras. 5.20
to 5.23) should be finished by June 30, 1978. Besides being kept informed
periodically about the studies, the Bank will be given adequate opportunity
by the Government to comment on the results and recommendations of the re-
search. The purpose of this collaboration is to produce appropriate re-
finements in Finland's national program, particularly with regard to invest-
ment decisions made in 1979 and thereafter. An agreement between the Govern-
ment and the Bank has been reached on all of the above points.
Procurement and Disbursement
5.25      Funds from the Bank loan would be allocated to cover 20% of the
total cost of pollution control sub-projects which MBF finances, since the
average foreign exchange component is estimated at 20% (see para. 5.05).
Withdrawals would be for up to 50%O of goods and services financed by MBF,
so long as they do not exceed 20% of total sub-project cdsts. International
competitive bidding would not be suitable, because the Bank loan would be
disbursed to a number of sub-borrowers for a large variety of items, often
of a proprietary nature, purchased from many suppliers at different times
over a four and one-half year period. Cormmitment, disbursement, and amor-
tization of the Bank loan proceeds would follow the system used for loans
to development finance companies. Industrial sub-borrowers would purchase
equipment in accordance with their normal procedures; MBF would check to see
that satisfactory procurement practices are followed. Disbursement schedule
is shown in Annex 17. Amortization of the Bank loan would conform substan-
tially to the aggregate repayments of sub-loans and would not exceed fifteen
years, two years' grace included.



- 27 -
Vi. JUSTIFICATION
Demand for Pollution Control
6.01      The Government's reason for undertaking the national program (1974-
1983) to control industrial pollution is based on the demand of the people,
as expressed through the political process. Per capita water consumption in
Finland is the highest in Europe, due to the extensive use of this natural
asset by the wood-processing industry. As a result, the residuals discharged
by that industry cause. extensive water pollution, particularly in the heavily
populated areas of the country. In response to the public's demand, all pol-
itical parties have supported environmental improvement in general, and the
national water pollution control program in particular. The cost of conserv-
ing and restoring water resources means Finland will sacrifice some economic
growth in order to improve the quality of the environment. The estimated
total cost of water pollution control by industry during the 1974-1983 pe-
riod will amount to approximately $100 per capita.
Least Cost Approach
6.02      Since the demand is evident, it remains to determine if the
stated objectives will be achieved at the least cost. There are two ob-
stacles to appraising whether the least cost means of controlling water
pollution are being employed on a national scale: the licensing system and
subsidies. Every water-use license in Finland is specifically tailored on
the basis of the recipient water body's characteristics, the nature of ef-
fluent discharged, and the technology and economics of control. The licensing
system exists because property rights are involved (water bodies are actually
owned by water users who are free to use what belongs to them within limits
established by the laws). The existence of the Water Courts and the role
played by the NBW in the licensing procedures are a result of these legal
considerations. The licensing system has its defects, but to try and amend
or abolish it would take years because of the legislative process. As for
subsidies, the financing of pollution control investments by industry out of
public funds includes the possibility of an interest rate subsidy equivalent
to about 1% on total project costs, plus the possibility of some acceleration
in depreciation. At this point, these subsidies are not big enough to distort
investment decisions to any significant degree. In any case, the Government
considers some subsidy to be necessary in order to obtain.the fullest coop-
eration from industry.
6.03      One of the techniques which leads to optimization of pollution re-
duction is to employ systems analysis. This has not been done in Finland,
because the institutional capability is lacking (it will take time to create
it and benefit from it), and because the present state of the art makes quan-
tification in environmental investments uniquely difficult. In view of the
current degree of environmental degradation, the improvement in ambient water
quality resulting from a given increase in pollution control expenditure is
so great that the trade-off of waiting several years for the results of systems



- 28 -
analysis is neither acceptable to the Finns nor advisable: it is cheaper to
start now rather than later, when costs will be higher because of inflation
and because pollution will be worse. Thus, with regard to the design of the
national program, while there is clearly some scope for refinement of the
approach, there is no choice in the matter in view of the public's demand for
action. On a nationwide basis, shortcomings in the current approach will not
result in any serious distortion in investment decisions up to 1980. As for
individual investments by each industrial enterprise borrowing under the Bank
project, there is satisfactory assurance that the least cost approach will
be followed because of the appraisal criteria, capabilities of NBW and MBF,
and sub-.project review exercised by the Bank.
Project Benefits
6.04      The essential environmental benefit of the project is that it will
contribute to a 50% reduction in industrial wastes discharged as of 1980.
Besides providing capital, the Bank would contribute to (i) the current de-
sign of the national program, (ii) institutional capabilities for implement-
ing the program, and (iii) conceptualization of future refinements in the
program. In fact, Bank assistance during the appraisal process has already
produced some results, for example, in tightening up lending criteria and
in recognizing the pitfalls of subsidies (originally, the national program
was to make loans to all projects involving some measure of pollution control,
and subsidies were to be across-the-board instead of on a case-by-case basis).
Institutionally, the Bank would assist the NBW in obtaining the resources
needed -- for TERA to do its job properly in appraising loans for pollution
control, for the Regional Offices to monitor polluters more extensively by
using the latest technology, and for the NBW planners to participate in the
research necessary for revising the existing system of licenses and subsidies.
The effects of the Bank's contribution would extend beyond 1979, because the
purpose of the research component is to refine the conceptual approach to
pollution control in the long-run. Finnish authorities recognize the need
to start preparing now for the more refined analysis and incentive structure
needed after 1979.
6.05      Association with the Bank through this project will help Finland
deal with its chronic capital shortage. To date, none of the foreign ex-
change resources needed to finance the national program from 1975 to 1977
have been raised. Finnish authorities are looking to the Bank for the funds
needed to fully implement the program and will raise the remaining foreign
exchange as needed; hopefully, the terms for borrowing on the international
market will have eased. If past experience is still relevant, potential
foreign lenders can be expected to loan more at reasonable terms than would
otherwise be expected due to Finland's continued association with the Bank.
This approach to borrowing is part of the Government's strategy in coping
with the difficult balance of payments and foreign debt problems which
confront the country.



- 29 -
Conclusions
6.06      The Bank has indicated its interest in getting involved in programs
to improve the environment. This is the first effort to do so on a national
scale. The prospect of success for this project is high. By contributing
to Finland's program, the Bank will also acquire (i) detailed knowledge about
pollution control costs and benefits in industry, and (ii) experience in the
research needed for modeling aquatic eco-systems and applying systems analy-
sis to pollution control. This experience should be useful to the Bank in
the future for water pollution control projects elsewhere in the world.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following prin-
cipal issues:
(a) draft Finnish legislation relating to air pollution by in-
dustry (para. 4.02);
(b)  resources needed by NBW for compiling, analyzing and main-
taining data pertaining to the condition of water courses
(para. 4.08);
(c)  resources needed to procure monitoring and laboratory equip-
ment, and to employ related staff, for use in NBW monitoring
activities (para. 4.10);
(d)  qualified personnel to be employed by the TERA unit of NBW
(para. 5.12);
(e)  lending criteria to be employed in appraising sub-projects
and the content of appraisal reports (para. 5.16);
(f)  NBW assistance to MBF in appraisal and supervision work
(paras. 5.16 and 5.17);
(g)  terms of reference for research and the financing, timetable,
and use of research results and recommendations (para. 5.24).
7.02      During negotiations, the Bank and the Finnish delegation discussed
the Water Courts and accidental discharges (para. 4.06), and subsidies (para.
5.08). The delegation took note of the Bank's recommendations and agreed to
communicate them to the appropriate authorities in Government.
7.03      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$20 million to the
Mortgage Bank of Finland Oy, with the Guaranty of the Republic of Finland,
to be relent to industrial enterprises. In view of the unprofitability of
the proposed pollution control investments, the appropriate term for the
loan is 15 years including two years of grace.






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
FINLAND: WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Financial Community
1.        The financial structure of the Finnish economy is relatively uncom-
plicated. Interest rates are controlled by the Bank of Finland and are modi-
fied infrequently (see page 2 of this Annex). At prevailing rates, the
demand for funds exceeds the supply; the allocation of credit is consequently
controlled through the influence and directives of the Bank of Finland. The
average propensity to save is high, with the result that surplus funds accrued
by individuals and the public sector help finance the net borrowing position
of the business sector. The commercial banks dominate the financial com-
munity and, in size of deposits, are followed by the savings banks and co-
operative banks. There is no competition for funds by means of deposit rates.
The interest earned on time deposits is tax free, and up to Fmk 3,000 per
month of the deposit can be withdrawn without advance notice (the significance
of this is that Bank deposits are the preferred asset whereas holding secu-
rities is considered to be risky). There are only 49 companies quoted on the
helsinki stock exchange where activity is very low. Dividends on stocks are
heavily taxed and must offer a high yield to attract any investors. Bonds,
both Government and private sector, are tax exempt and are usually held per-
manently by the original buyer. Thus, the capital market in Finland is very
limited.
2.        Commercial Banks.  There are seven commercial banks in Finland but
two predominate--Kansallis Osake Pankki and Pohjoismaiden Yhdyspankki-- ac-
counting, between them, for more than three-fourths of total business. Only
three forms of commercial credit are used: bills of exchange, loans against
promissory notes, and overdrafts. Although loans are seldom granted for longer
than five years, the practice of renewing all types of credit is common with
the result that about half of bank lending is actually on a term basis. The
banks focus on serving industry and commerce (about 30% and 25% of credit
extended, respectively) since there are specialized institutions which handle
most other sectors and forms of financing. There is practically no competition
for business on the basis of interest rates because of controls and a gentle-
men's agreement between the banks. Granting loans to creditworthy customers
for unproductive purposes is considered a luxury, and this explains why pollu-
tion control investments, which are unproductive, must be financed out of
Government funds specially allocated for such purposes (-see para 5.06).
3.        The Postipankki (FOB) 1/.  The POB is a fully Government-owned
institution and is entrusted with the responsibility of handling the bulk of
the Treasury's dealings with the public. New regulations in recent years have
1/   The POB merits special description since it will be a co-financier with
the borrower from the Bank, i.e., the Mortgage Bank of Finland, in making
loans for pollution control investments by industry under the proposed
project.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
given the POB the opportunity to expand its services, and they are now similar
to and competitive with the commercial banks; the POB charges normal market
rates for its services. Although the POB's administration is separated from
that of the Postal Services, the major part of its operations are effected
through the post office network. The POB operates a nationwide giro-account
system which is the most widely used way of transferring funds. Consequently,
almost all businesses in the country have an account with POB. The biggest
recipient of POB loans is the construction and real estate sector, since the
shortage of adequate housing has long been a problem in Finland. A relatively
large amount of POB's assets are also invested in Government securities and
lending to the Treasury.  The Government's budget proposal for 1975 provides
for the establishment of a state investment fund which would be under the
control of the Ministry of Finance but would be admtinistered by POB. Thus,
POB operates not only as a normal commercial bank but is used as a tool of
government policy to perform those banking functions which privately owned
financial institutions cannot or will not do. For this reason, POB has a role
in the financing of public-sector projects and unproductive private sector
investmtents, such as pollution control.
4.        The MIortgage Banks.  There are six mortgage banks in Finland special-
izing in granting long-term credits against mortgage guarantees. Four of these
banks are owned by groups of various financial institutions; two of them
specialize in making term loans to industry while the others are primarily
concerned with real estate. The mortgage banks are obliged to raise the major
part of their resources through bond issues in Finland or abroad, because they
are not allowed to accept deposits from the public. About 90% of the mortgage
banks' assets consist of long-term loans, industry receiving about half the
total and real estate, local government and public utilities receiving the
rest. The Industrial Mortgage Bank of Finland, Ltd., the largest of the six
institutions, is owned by the commercial banks. Second in size is the Mortgage
Bank of Finland which is to be the instrument through which the proposed Bank
loan would be channeled and administered (see Annexes 7 to 12).
5.        Development Credit Institutions.  There are four development banks in
the country, each specializing in a particular field, i.e., industrialization,
export credits, tourism and regional development. The development banks'
resources are raised in large part through the sale of debentures to their own
stockholders (commercial banks, other financial institutions and public agen-
cies). Another important source for these institutions are foreign loans, es-
pecially bond loans issued on the international capital market. One of the
development banks, The Industrialization Fund of Finland, received IBRD loans
totalling $63 million between 1963 and 1970, for the purpose of diversifying
industry and lessening dependence on pulp and paper production.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
FINLAND: WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Interest Rates on Deposits and LendingRates in Finland
Aprlil, 1975
DEPOSIT S
Savings accounts                                            5.75%
6 months - fixed term                                       6.25%
12 months - fixed term                                      6.75%
24 months - fixed term                                      7.75%
LENDING RATES 1/
Central Bank discount rate                                  9.25%
Short-term credits                           Approx. max. 12.5%
Average      11.5%
weighted average lending rate of             Approx.        9.5%
commercial banks
Average term loan rate to prime              Approx.        9.75%
industrial borrowers
Savings banks                                Approx.       10.2%
Cooperative Banks                            Approx.       10.3%
POB                                          Approx.        9.3%
Mortgage banks                               Approx.        9.5%
Source: Bank of Finland.
1/ The highest rates (12.5%) are charged on credits to finance the import
of consumer goods and the lowest rates (6%) for export-oriented projects,
import substituting production, and industrial enterprises located in
the less developed regions. Loans for water pollution control and
municipal sewerage and water supply are eligible for subsidized interest
rates
EMENA/IC&DFC
April, 1975



AN$Eg2
Page 1 of 2
FINLAND: WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Production and Exports of the Finnish
Forest Industry in 1973
Production      Exports    Value of Exports
(in milions of cu. meters)    in millions of $
Wood Industry;                                10.2             X            LQ5.5
of which:  Sawn wood                         8.1            5.3           (383.5)
Plywood, particle board,
and other products              2.1            1.4           (222.0)
(in million5 of metric tons)
Pulp Industry                                  6.8            1.7            298.0
of which:  Mechanical pulp                   2.2            0.1             (3.6)
Sulphite pulp                    1.3            0.7           (132.3)
Kraft                            2.9            0.9           (162.1)
Semi-chemical pulp               0.4            -              -
Paper Industry                                 5.4             .3         1.071.5
of which:  Newsprint                         1.4            1.3           (214.7)
Printing paper                   1.5            1.2           (276.1)
Paper board                      1.6            1.3           (261.3)
Other                            0.9            0.5           (319.4)
Total Forest Industry Exports                                             1,975.0
Percent of Total Finnish Exports                                             53%
EMENA/IC & DFC(
April, 1975 .



FINLAND: WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Value of Forest Industries Exports By Product Groups: 1973
Plywood,
particle board,
wallboard,                       Paper, paperboard,
Sawn goods       wood Products           Pu           converted  roducts        Totals
($ 000)  %        ($ CIOO)~    %      ($ 000)   %         (s ooo) ~%          ( ooT-
EFTA                           11,921   3.1      42,395   17.3       10,921    3.6       75,632    7.2      140,869    7.1
Norway                        1,131             8,158               1,763              12,369              23,421
Sweden                        6,262            25,500                 132              32,842              64,736
Iceland                      1,262              2,026                  26               2,684               5,998
Austria                           3             1,711               2,658               7,368              11,74o
Portugal                        474                26               2                   7,368              1,74
Switzerland                   2,789             4,974               6,342              16,395              30,500
EEC                           346,395  90.3     160,184   65.2      194,710   65.3      558,868   53.3   1,260,157   63.8
W-Germany                    43,079            25,158              36,816             140,290             245,343
Belgium-Luxembourg           22,184             1,3 42              6,842              21,553              51,921
France                       36,579             6,737              20,8142             62,737             126,895
Italy                           500               763              38,026               8,684              47,973
Netherlands                  54,869             8,395              24,026              35,447             122,737
United Kingdon             150,263            109,631              63,632             233,026              556,552
Denmark                      25,763             5,921               3,737              46,026              81,447
Ireland                     13,158              2,237                 789              11,105              27,289
Other European
OECD-countries                 12,948   3.4         316    0.1       10,053    3.4       22,842    2.2        46,159    2.3
East Europe and USSR              605   0.2        8,868    3.6      54,000   18.1      143,737   13.7       207,210  10.5
EUROPE                        371,869  97.0     211,763   86.2      269,684   90.4      801,079   76.4   1,654,395   83.7
USA & Canada                        2   0.0       25,922   10.6        4,210    1.4      64,736    6.2        94,870    4.8
Latin America                      25   0.0       1,000    0.4        5,079    1.7       48,395    4.6        54,499    2.8  ' g
Asia                            7,104   1.9        4,868    2.0       9,632    3.2       74,316    7.1        95,920    4.9 c I
Africa                          4,000   1.0       1,263    0.5        3,632    1.2       36,053    3.5        44,948    2.3    I 
Oceania                           500   0.1          737    0.3       6,105    2.1       23,368    2.2        4430,70    1.5  r 23
Total                         383,500 100.0     245,553  100.0      298,342  100.0   1,047,947  100.0   1,975,342  100.0
MAHMA/IC & DFC
April, 1975



FINLAND: WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
BOD and NUTRIENT LOADS in 1972 and GOALS FOR 1980 and 1985
Source of Pollution       BOD tons/day                       Phosphorus kg P/day                  Nitrogen  kg N/day
7
1972     1980     1985            1972      1980     1985             1972      1$80 /    1985
Residential centres 1/       126       60-       45            5700     3000      2500            30.5       38.0         38
3/
Wood Processing             1300      650       400            2000     2300-   1500              15.0      15.0          15
Fertilizer                     1                                560      200       100             3.5        2.0          1
Explosives                    -                                  -                                 o.6        0.2
Other chemical                20       10         10             60      100       100             1.0        1.0          3
Leather                        4                                 15                                0.8        0.5
Textile                        4                                200                                0.6        0.3
Food Processing               60       10                       900      100                       3.7        1.0
Total                       1515       730       455           9435      5700      4200           55.7       56.0          57
1/  The goals for residential centres include also the industrial effluents discharged to municipal sewers.  Concerning the
corresponding industrial fields, only the effluent load caused by separate discharges to recipient are presented.
2/  Sixty tons BOD7/day corresponds to approximately 20,000 tons BOD5/years.
i/ Trends
EMEIA/IC&DFC
April, 1975



FINLAND: XA=  poT.T.TTON rogRol. PROJECT
Harmfulness of Pollutants Discharged
An estimate of the harmfulnessof other factors than the wasteload and hazards caused by BOD and nutrients, in
1972 and targets for 1980 under the national program (5-6 very harmful, 3-4 harmful, 1-2 slightly harmful, 0 -
not very harmful).
Degree of harmfulness caused:
Source of Pollution                 Harmful Property                     by continuous wasteload - by damages and disturbances
1972               1980    1972
Residential centres            Risk to health                                 4                   3       4-                  3
Wood Processing                Lignins, toxic substances,                     4-5                 3-5     3-5                 3-4
suspended solids
Chemical industry
oil refining                  oils, phenols, other organic chemicals         4                   3       6                   6
other petrochemical           oils, organic chemicals                        3                   3       5                   5
fertilizer                    heavy metals, fluorides, acids                  3                  2       4                   4
man-made fiber                heavy metals, organic and sulphur
compounds                                      4                  3        3                   3
pigment                       heavy metals, ferrous compounds,
acids                                          6                  5        3-4                 3-14
Chlor-alkali                  mercury                                         3                  2       5                    4
other ehmical                 organic and inorganic compounds                 2-4                2-4     2-5                  2-5
Metal industry
Iron and steel                cyanides, oils, ferrous compounds               4                  3       5                    4
Other metal                   heavy metals, acids, etc.                       4-6                3-5     5                    5
Metal products                cyanides, heavy metals, oils,
acids, etc.                                    G-5                0-4      2-6                 2-5
machines                      oils, heavy metals, acids, etc.                 0-4                0-3      3-4                 2-3
Food processing                risk to health, fluctuations in
quality                                        0-2                0-2      0-4                 0-3  
Leather                        sulphur compounds, heavy metals,
fluctuations in quality                        4                  2        3                   3
Textiles                       bleaching and staining chemicals,                                                                3   u
auxiliary chemicals                            O-4                0-3      0-3                 0-3
Mining                         heavy metals, auxiliary chemicals,                                 2
axidity, suspended solids                      2-4                2-4      2-4                 2-4
Power Plants                   thermal pollution, residues and                 1-4                1-5      2                   2-4
leakages



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
FINLAND: WATER POLUJTION CONTROL PROJECT
WATER COURTS: SUMMARY OF CASES HANDLED IN 1974
Issues                  Transferred  Initiated   To be dealt       Concluded   Pending
from 1973       1974      with in 1974      in 1974    Dec. 31, 1974
Number of Cases
Water supply                225         122          347              114          233
Waste water discharge       262         110          372              135          237
Other (power, con-          451        387           838              423         415
struction, power sta-
tions, lowering of
water courses, regu-
lations, etc.)
Damages                      66          26           92               15           77
Lawsuits                     17          4            21                6           15
Criminal cases                5           3            8                _            8
Cases of Appeal              77          55          132               71           61
Official Rectifi-            34         30           664               22           42
cation
TOTAL          1137         737          1874              786        1088
EMENA/IC&DFC
April, 1975



ANNEX '4
Page 2 of 3
FINLAND: WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
WATER COURTS' LICENSING ACTIVITIES FOR WASTE WATER DISCHARGE (1971-1974)
Year       Transferred from       New Appli-    Total of          Concluded    Transferred
the previous year      cations       applications
Western Finnish Water Court
1971           107                 53               160              51             109
1972           109                 60               169              50             119
1973           119                 84               203              80              123
1974           123                 66               189              60              129
Eastern Finnish Water  Court
1971            124                 36               160              36             124
1972            124                 22               146              22              124
1973            124                 21               145              27              118
1974            118                 23               141              52               89
Northern Finnish Water Court
1971             36                 12                48              14               34
1972             34                 14                48              28               20
1973             20                 18                I±8             17              21
1974             21                 21                42              23               19
TOTALS
1971            267                101               368            101              267
1972            267                 96               363             100             263
1973            263                123               396            124              262
19714           262                110               372             135              2.37



~ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
FINLAND: WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Terms of Water Use Licenses
1.        The license terms include regulations binding on the licensee,
which enter into force when the project is undertaken. The regulations are
not, however, ordinary license terms in the sense that failure to comply
with some of the regulations would lead to postponement or cancellation of
the license. The license terms are regulations binding on the licensee. They
define the licensee's relations with the parties whose interests the project
may interfere with in one form or other, and they stipulate the principles
to be observed for the protection of public interests. If the license terms
are not obeyed in the implementation of the project, they may be enforced
by coercive measures as prescribed by the Water Act.
2.        The general principle is that obligations other than those based
on the law cannot be imposed on the licensee. In certain cases the law lays
down in great detail the prerequisites for including some obligation in the
license terms, or provides for the factual contents of a regulation to be
imposed. In some other cases the law gives far-reaching discretionary powers
to the authorities granting licenses. Depending on the nature of the case,
the license terms contain varying regulations. The Water Act provides for
a list of details to be included in the license terms. On the basis of this
list the regulations to be imposed under license terms can be grouped as
follows:
(a) Regulations on structures and equipment.
(b) Obligations involving apparatus and measures.
(c) Regulations on the operation of the project.
(d) Imposition of obligations for control of water conditions.
(e) Regulations imposing a liability to pay compensations or
corresponding charges.
(f) Imposition of a maintenance obligation.
(g) Regulations on construction-period conditions.
(h) Imposition of a deadline for the realization of the project
and a compulsory final inspection.
(i) Clarification of the level of comparison and imposition of
other regulations based on the law.
April, 1975



FINLAND: WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
National Boatd of Watrs
DIRECTOR GENERAL
GENERAL PLANNING             TECHNICAL DIVISION            SUPERVISION AND                 LEGAL DIVISION              ECONOMICS DIVISION             WATER RSEARCH
DIVISION                                             INSPECTION DIVISION               LNSTITUTE
GENERAL PLANNING           CONSTRUCTION OFFICE            SUPERVISION OFFIC                       OFFICEGH
I[ MAINSTENANCE OFFICE                        |INSUPERViSION OFFICE    |     |ADMINISTRATIONOFFICE|LEGAL       CCOUNOINCS PLANNIN        lYROLOGICAL OFFICE
|   OFFICE   I         .    OFFFICE
OFFICE "Ofl IIA EOPERATION AND                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WATER-RESEARCH
TON CONRLADNC                  EOFFICEFEACGNTN OFC
REATIONAL USE OF WATERS 
r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EHIA RESEARCHN"
WATER-SUPPLY                TIMBER-FLOATING                                                                          OGANIZATION OFFICE            T     OFFICARESAC
OFFICE                       OFFICE                                                                            L,I                                    OFC
REGULATION OFFICE]
O RAINAGE OFFICE
RIVER-PLANNING
OFFICE OF POHIJANMAA
PROJECT UNIT
TERA
WATER DISTRICT OFFICES AND DISTRICT ENGINEERS
MKKELI mI m1 =KAINUU
F i                                                   'OULUI   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXTRAORDI. LAP
HESIKI TRK           TMERE             KYMI        IEXTRAORDI        K                 HDS            AS                             OKOLA                           NARYLU
NARY)NAY
WodId B.nk-9507        D



ANNV S
VTUL&NDi M*~1~ POLWTIOU CCN!ROL ~nJ~?Page 7of 5
Staft of National Board of Waters - June 30, 1974
The Divisions of the National Board Of ibters
5en ral        Technical           Supervision           Legal             lconcde            Water              TOTAI.
Pl aiming      Division            and Inspection        Division,         Division            Research
Dividon                            Division                                                    Institute
Credentials of Roployes
Degree of 3hgineering              32                9                    15                                    3                  16               75
Li.nologists                        4                                      5                                                         7              16
Biologists                          1                                      1                                                                         2
Chemiste                            1                                      2                                                         4I              7
Foresters                           2                1                                                                                               3
Degree of Political
Sciences                           2                                                                           1                                    3
Technical Institute                 6                3                     1                                    1                    1             12
Agricultural Institute            I 1                                                                                                                1
Technical School                   14                5                     4                  1                 2                    5              31
Architect                           1                                                                                                               1
Mathematicians                                       1                                                          2                    3               6-
Philologists                                         1                                                          1                    2               4
Degree of Law                                                              1                 14                 3                                  18
Economists                                                                 2                                    6                                    8
Pharmaciets                                                                                                                          3               3
Hydrologists                                                                                                                         9
Geologists                                                                                                                           2               2
Agronomist                                           1                                                                               1               2
Degree of Social Sien5es                                                                                        2                                   2
Other Personnel                    64               19                    18                  40               27                   84            252
fOTAL                             128               40                    49                  55               48                 137             457
Wlater Disrit Offices
Credentials of  1b1oyes a     lelird  Tarku  Tpere  Kyi  Mlikkeli Xkuopio  PohjiT              s  K      -   o                     Lppi   I
Karjala           Suomi   la
Degree of bhgineoring            6        7       6       5       5       7        4         12      5        8      9      4        6      64
Limnologists                     2       2        2       2       1       2       1                  2        1      2      1       1       19
Technical Intitute               4       3        4       3       2       4       3          9      4        10     4       4       4       58
Technical School                16      22       21      15      14      21      16         45     20        31    32      17      28      298
Agricultural Institute                            I                                                                                          1
Degree of Law                                             1               1                                         1                        3
Pharmacists                                               1       1       1                  1       1        1      1      1        1       9
Forester                                                          1                                                                          1
Economist                                                                                    1                                               1
Other Personnel                 34      39       29      26      24      31       26        36     33        43    35      27       36     419
TOTAL                           62      73       63      53      48      67      50        104     65        94    84      54      76      893



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 5
FINLAND: WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
National Board of Waters
The Tasks of the Divisions and Their Offices
1.   General Planning Division
1.1 General Planning Office:
-    the developing of the planning activities of the water authority
and coordination of the integrated planning;
-    integrated planning taking into account the various uses of the
waters;
-    drafting the policies of the water administration.
1.2 Office for Water Pollution Control and Recreational Use of the Waters:
-    pollution control activities and their development;
-    planning of pollution control;
-    recreational uses of the waters;
-    conservation of the water landscape;
-    financing of said activities.
1.3 Water Supply Office:
-    water supply and its development;
-    planning of water supply;
-    financing of water supply.
1.4 Regulation Office:
-    water course regulation and planning of the regulations;
-    utilization of water power;
-    financing of the regulations.
1.5 Drainage Office:
-    drainage, irrigation and regulation of waters for those purposes;
-    financing of drainage.
2.   Technical Division
2.1 Construction Office:
-    construction programs;
-    construction contracts;
-    planning and execution of construction activities;
-    machinery and technical equipment;
-    financing of the construction works.



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 5
2.2 Operation and Maintenance Office:
-    discharges in the regulated waters;
-    recommendations for discharges in the privately-operated
regulations;
-    state-representation in regulation companies;
-    common waters;
-    maintenance and planning thereof;
-    financing of said operations.
2.3 Timber-floating Office:
-    planning and financing of the part of the floating which is the
duty of the water administration;
-    supervision of the floating according to water act;
-    distribution of the floating rules.
3.   Supervision and Inspection Division
3.1 Supervision Office:
-    supervision of the waters according to the Water Act.
3.2 Inspection Office:
-    acts of inspection in preparation for the issuing of permits
by the water courts;
-    public hearings in drainage undertakings;
-    final inspections;
-    ordering of inspection engineer or assisting officials for the
inspections.
4.  Research Institute
4.1 Hydrological Office
-    hydrological research and observations and their development;
-    hydrological forecasts;
-    publishing of the research and observation results.
4.2 Water Research Office:
-    research and observation of the quality of the waters;
-    controls the work of the consulting companies in the field of
water quality investigation;
-    publishing of the observation and research results.
4.3 Technical Research Office:
-    research and developing of the equipment and methods for water
pollution control and water supply;
-    research on the effects of the work in the waters and research
and development of structures;
-    soil mechanical investigations and research;
-    publishing of the results.



FINLAND: WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
National Board of Waters
(Fmk thousands)
Past Budgets                           Projected Budgets
1971     1972     1973     1974         1975     1976      1977     1978     1979
Appropriations for Operations    35,307   39,873   45,333   54,241        63,584   65,860   67,305   68,379   66,507
Appropriations for water           8,350   25,950   31,770   40,059       89,402  103,266  105,685  103,472  103,200
construction projects,
subsidies and loans
Total ---                        43,657   65,823   77,103   94,300       152,986  169,126  172,990  171,851  169,707
April, 1975



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
FINLAND: WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Principles of Monitoring Pollution
1.        Two types of monitoring efforts are undertaken by the NBIJ in con-
junction with the pollution abatement program: measurement of (1) residuals
discharges and (2) ambient water quality. In many respects, the two efforts
are similar, though there are some important differences too. These similari-
ties and differences primarily involve questions of what kinds of data to
collect, where to collect them, how often to collect the various data, and
how best to collect them.
What Kinds of Data to Collect
2.        One of the major differences between the two monitoring efforts
is the kinds of data that need be collected. Consideration of appropriate
data to collect on ambient environmental quality is guided by a description
of the water body that relates as directly as possible to peoples' uses of
the many-faceted resource. Historically, the dissolved oxygen (DO) level
has been the most widely used indicator of water quality, and it continues
to be an important indicator for water quality management purposes. Although
the DO criteria has its deficiencies, it is a reasonably good indicator of
the overall "health" of the water body, e.g., fish cannot live without it.
When DO disappears, even locally, noxious odors and undesirable gases often
develop.
3.        However, the DO content may tell us little about other water quality
aspects.  For example, high DO concentrations may be associated with dense
algal blooms that are undesirable on aesthetic grounds. In addition, DO and
the presence of toxic materials may be totally unrelated. Situations have
been reported where all the flora and fauna in a stretch of river had been
killed by toxic materials, but where the DO concentration remained relatively
high. This is all by way of explaining that no single measure of water qual-
ity is sufficient for all purposes. The number and kinds of descriptors, or
parameters, of the water body will depend upon the particular situation, the
use of the water body, and the cost of collecting the data. More will be
said about costs below.
4.        Consideration of appropriate data to collect on 'residuals discharges
is guided by the impact on the physical, chemical, and biological state of the
water body of the various discharges. Organic materials, measured by their
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), is obviously an important waste load indi-
cator. Within the water body, the organic material oxidizes (decays) and
consumes the freely available DO; this process is known as aerobic decom-
position. Carbon dioxide and water are the main by-products of this process.
The organic material will also oxidize in the water body when free DO is not
available, and this process is known as anaerobic decomposition (bacteria
causing decomposition use organically or inorganically bound oxygen rather



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
than free oxygen). Anaerobic decomposition causes severe water quality
problems since odors and noxious gases are frequently produced. Common
by-products of this process are hydrogen sulfide and methane.
5.        Other discharges that have an impact on the quality of the receiv-
ing waters are the nutrients of phosphorus and nitrogen, toxic materials of
all kinds, heat and oil. Discharges of nutrients can cause algal blooms that
are unsightly in their own right, that produce taste and odors in drinking
water supplies, that are toxic to certain fish, and that eventually die and
consume the available DO. Toxic materials can kill flora and fauna both
directly and indirectly. In addition, toxic materials, such as the heavy
metals, can travel through the food chain, thus posing a serious hazard to
people who eventually eat the food.
Where to Collect the Data
6.        For monitoring industrial and municipal discharges, the data col-
lection sites are determined by plant locations and discharge points. Un-
fortunately, the selection of monitoring sites for ambient water quality
is not as simple. There are no predetermined locations where the monitor-
ing sites are best situated. If, for example, the lakes are thermally
stratified, the upper layer (epilimnion) may behave very differently from
the underlying layer (hypolimnion). In this case, data from both layers
may be required. In addition, there are still questions as to the "best"
place(s) (in the horizontal plane) to collect the data and at how many
locations in order to adequately monitor overall water quality. The
answer to these questions is not straightforward. It depends on the cost
of data collection and on their uses, in short, on the worth of the data
in an economic sense.
Ilow Often to Collect the Data
7.        How frequently to collect data is, perhaps, one of the most perva-
sive problems facing data collection agencies throughout the world. With the
development of chemical specific probes, and the advent of electronic automatic
monitoring equipment, it is now feasible to continuously monitor residuals
discharges and ambient water quality. But data collection, transmission, and
storage is costly, and continuous monitoring often is not warranted. Deci-
sions as to the frequency of data collection are based on budget limitations
and not, as is preferable, on a benefit-cost analysis of the purposes for
which the data are to be used.
How Best to Collect the Data
8.        There are basically two mechanisms for collecting data on residuals
discharges and ambient water quality: (1) electronic probes, and (2) mechanical
sampling and laboratory analyses. Probes require a certain amount of mainte-
nance and calibration, but compared with mechanical sampling and subsequent
laboratory analysis, they generally require substantially less total manpower
and, in the long-run, are sometimes cheaper for a comparable level of monitor-
ing. Unfortunately, probes are not available for all of the water quality



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
indicaLtors of interest. For example, there is no probe yet devised for or-
ganic content, i.e. BOD. Organic material must be collected (either manuallv
of mechanically) and subsequently analyzed in the laboratory. Examples of
probes that do exist include those that measure suspended solids, DO con-
centration, chloride ion concentration, pH, oxidation-reduction potential,
conductivity, flow velocity, temperature, and turbidity. Data collected
using probes can be stored on-site on magnetic and/or paper tapes, or
transmitted, for example, over telephone lines, to a centralized location
for data analysis and storage. Mechanically collected samples must be
transported to a laboratory for analysis, unless there is an on-site mobile
laboratory, and during transport and/or storage the properties of the samples
are liable to change.
9.        There are technical limitations associated with both methods of
data collection. Some probes and electronic data collection equipment are
sensitive to temperature and humidity and require frequent maintenance and
calibration; constant temperature shelters may be required. In these cases
a power source would be necessary. This generally presents more of a prob-
lem for monitoring ambient water quality at remote sites than it does for
residuals discharges.
Conclusions
10.       The above discussion raises two issues associated with the monitor-
ing effort in Finland that should be resolved: (1) the specification of a
monitoring network which addresses the kinds of data to collect, where to
collect them, and how often to collect them; and (2) with a given network,
the most efficient means of sampling, transmitting, analyzing, and storing
data. The first issue requires a rather detailed benefit-cost analysis of
the data to be collected so that questions of what kinds, how much, and
where can be answered. The second issue involves the detail of the hard-
ware portion of the monitoring network system. A thorough knowledge of
probes, data collection equipment, and means of transmitting and storing
data is required.
EMENA/IC&DFC
April, 1975



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 6
FINLAND: WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
The Borrower - Mortgage Bank of Finland (MBF)
1.        MBF is to be the recipient of the proposed Bank loan for the pollu-
tion control project. As one of the participants in financing the national
program, MBF will have to raise funds from other sources as well as the Bank,
i.e., through foreign financial markets and through bonds sold to the Bank of
Finland. MBF's borrowings will be passed on as term loans to industries in-
vesting in pollution control equipment, in accordance with the procedures
outlined in paras 5.09 to 5.18.
Purpose and Organization
2.        MBF is a public institution in the form of a joint stock company
set up in 1956 under the Mortgage Bank Act. Its primary purpose is to relend
the proceeds of long-term loans, initially obtained from the Bank, to Finnish
industry. 1/ MBF's overall priority is to lend to projects representing new
branches of Finnish industry, introducing new production techniques or under-
taking modernization schemes. In 1973 MBF began to focus specifically on
projects facilitating adjustment to changes in competitive conditions brought
about by the enlargement of Finland's free-trade area (para 2.02). In 1974
MBF played a leading role in extending loans to industry to finance energy-
saving investments. Starting in 1975 MBF, together with Postipankki (POB),
will be financing pollution control investments. The main shareholders of
MBF are the Bank of Finland (66.5%) and POB (33.3%). MBF's Board has five
members of which three are representatives of the Bank of Finland. MBF's
new Chairman and Managing Director, Dr. Heikki Valvanne, has previously been
a member of the board of management of the Bank of Finland and is generally
recognized to be one of the most experienced and capable members of the fi-
nancial community. MBF's total personnel is comprised of four officers and
three administrative staff, the officers carrying out the functions of
Deputy General Manager, Treasurer, Loan Officer, Financial Analyst and Cashier.
The bank does not have any branch offices.
Policies and Procedures
3.        Under its Articles, MBF is authorized to make loans secured by
mortgages in amounts not exceeding 60% of the appraised value of the mortgage
property. It may also accept security in the form of State and bank guaran-
tees, up to 25% of MBF's portfolio (loans to public authorities excepted).
Though MBF's Articles do not limit the amount of credit extended to a single
1/   From 1956 to 1962 the Bank made four loans to NBF totalling $102 million,
of which $62 million were for wood-processing industries and $40 million
for the power sector.



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 6
enterprise, in practice MfBF restricts its exposure to 10% of loans outstanding.
MBF cannot hold equity investments in industrial firms, but has an equity
participation in a development fund. MBF is authorized to issue guarantees
but has not done so yet.  Also, it does not engage in short-tetm lending.
4.        With its small efficient staff, MBF has compiled an excellent record
of project selection and supervision. During its 19 years of existence, it
has never had a bad debt. To date, MBF has only dealt with a limited number
of blue-chip clients, i.e., the biggest 50 companies in Finland, plus a few
municipalities; it has thorough knowledge of the creditworthiness, financial
standing and prospects of its clients. In appraising projects, MBF prepares
cost and revenue projections, the planning horizon of such cash flow analyses
extending one to two years beyond the year of the project's tightest liquidity
position.  Since MBF's staff does not include an engineer, it occasionally
secures the services of an engineering consulting company, and resort to this
procedure will be more frequent in the future when assessing the technical
aspects of energy saving investmefts.
5.        Project supervision, mostly by follow-up reports, is done every
four months for projects under construction and once a year in case of all
borrowets.  Procurement and disbutsement procedures are satisfactory.  Under
MBF's current reporting requirements towards the Bank, it notifies the Bank
of each borrowing operation undertaken and submits once a year its financial
statements as well as infofmation about the performance of the Finnish wood-
processing industries.
Terms and Conditions of Opetations
6.        In its lending operations MhF does not make any distinction between
public institutions or private companies.  In general MBF does not make loans
below Fmk 1 million though -there have been a few exceptions. PBF's lending
rates are strictly tied to the cost of its borrowed resources. In the case
of foreign exchange loans it generally applies a spread of 1/4 to 1/2 of 1Z.
The cost of MBF's foreig'n exchange borrowings in 1971 and 1972 fluctuated
between 82 and 8-3/4%, but tin 197  MBF settled for revolving credits at the
London interbank rate plus 1/4% to 1/2%. Since 1961 MBF has paid 7% on its
subordinated debentures subscribed to by the Bank of Finland; when making
loans from these resources, MBF's lending rate is 9-1/2%. Generally, MBF's
spread on domestic resources runs fto  1'% to 2-1/2%, depending on the client
and the project being financed.  9kst loans to industry have terms varying
from 10-15 years, while aot6e loans to other Secitors, such as pover generation,
are of longer term (up to 25 years).
Volume and Charact6ristics of Operations
7.        Annex 8 summarizes- MB1's lending operations from 1971 to 1974.  In
1974 total disbursements amounted to some Fmk 193 million, of which 75% was
in foreign exchange. Compared to total investment in Finnish manufacturing
in 1974 of about Fmk 5.3 billion, MBF's share appears rather small (4%);



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 6
however, from the point of view of foreign exchange loaned on a term basis
to industry, MBF's share is much more significant and, on a four-year average,
is estimated at about 14% per annum. During 1974 MBF approved loans total-
ling Fmk 162.5 million for 22 industrial projects, most of them being energy
saving investments. This represents a sharp decline of foreign currency
approvals due to the difficulties of raising resources at acceptable terms
on the international capital market. MBF's share in the financing of the
fixed assets of these projects averaged 50%. As in previous years, almost
all clients were repeat customers. According to projections, the average
weighted return on capital of the borrowers' projects is estimated at 24%.
In 1974 the average cost per job created rose from $100,000 to $125,000 and
reflected inflation and the increasing capital intensive nature of industrial
investment in Finland. Lending concentrates heavily in the manufacturing
sector (75% of outstanding loans) and to a lesser extent in the power sector
(16%), the balance representing loans to mining enterprises and municipalities
(see Annex 9). Somewhat more than half of the outstanding loans to industry
are loans to woodprocessing industries. Foreign exchange loans account for
about three-fourths of the total portfolio outstanding as of December 31, 1974.
The average size of loans made by MBF is approximately Fmk 6.5 million ($1.7
million equivalent).
Resource Position
8.        Domestic Resources.  Since 1956 MBF has issued seven subordinated
debentures, all of which have been subscribed to by the Bank of Finland. As
of December 31, 1974, the total amount outstanding was Fmk 53.3 million.
The legal status of these debentures is that they are subordinated to MBF's
outstanding foreign exchange borrowings and other liabilities but senior to
the bank's share capital and reserve fund. Paid-up share capital and reserves
amounted to Fmk 46.6 million as of December 31, 1974. In addition, there are
hidden reserves conservatively estimated at Fmk 12 million at end 1974, due
to an overvaluation of provisions for losses and an undervaluation of secur-
ities held in MBF's investment portfolio.
9.        Foreign Resources.  Since its establishment MBF has contracted 17
foreign loans. As of December 31, 1974, the total amount outstanding from
these loans was equivalent to Fm630 631 as follows:
Source                         Amount                % of Total
(Fmk million)
IBRD                             109.0                  17.3
AID                               49.1                   7.8
KfW                                3.7                   0.6
Bond Loans                       149.5                  23.7
Other Foreign Exchange
Loans                      319.3                   50.6
Total                 630.6                  100.0



ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 6
Details about these resources are given in Annex 10. Until 1967 MBF's foreign
exchange loans were made with funds obtained from the Bank, US-AID, and KFW.
The last Bank loan to MBF was made in 1962 for an amount of $25 million to co-
finance expansion of Finnish power generating capacity. In the late sixties
MBF began to borrow on the inter-nattonal market. As for foreign exchange
resources raised recently, MBF restricted its borrowing activities in 1973
and 1974 to arranging (i) three revolving standby facilities in Eurodollars,
totalling $30 million, at a floating interest rate and (ii) a term loan of $10
million at a fixed interest rate of 8-7/8%. The amount drawn down was $37.5
million at end 1974. in MBF secures itself against losses arising from fluc-
tuations in foreign exchange by passing on the foreign exchange risks to its
borrowers. 1/
10.       Quality of Portfolio.  MRF's portfolio is sound.  The bank does
not have any loans in arrears and has never suffered loss on a loan. As
of December 31, 1974, MBF had set aside Fmk 24.6 million in provisions,
representing 3.4% of the loan portfolio. Provisions of this magnitude are
considerably more than what is needed, in view of the high quality of MBF's
portfolio.
Financial Performance and Position
11.       As indicated in Annex 11, MBF's profitability is modest, with net
profit in 1974 amounting to only 7.3% of average net worth. The financial
performance reflects the fact that MBF's real function is to act as a Central
Bank conduit to the international financial markets for industrial borrowers.
In 1974 MBF's average spread amounted to 0.9%. Another unique characteristic
of MBF's financial performance are the very low administrative expenses,
0.17% of average total assets in 1974, as should be the case given its ex-
tremely small staff.
12.       Annex 12 presents MBF's audited balance sheets from 1970-74.  At
the end of 1974, stated reserves represented 2.6% of portfolio. Including
provisions and other items, equity in excess of capital is equivalent to
7.4% of outstanding loans as of December 31, 1974 and constitutes very
comfortable coverage for risks. Paid-up share capital, real reserves and
subordinated debentures outstanding, which according to the Mortgage Bank
Act may be considered as quasi-equity 21, totalled Fmk 99.9 million at the
end of 1974, resulting in a debt/equity ratio of 6.6:1 (far below the 25:1
ratio permitted by law).  This equity base leaves ample scope for further
foreign and domestic borrowings given the quality of MBF's portfolio and
management.
1/   In practice this mieans that MBF 4raws down its foreign borrowings and
disburses the proceeds to its Finnish client on the same day. MBF is,
in fact, not permitted by the Bank of Finland to assume the foreign
exchange risk.
2/   However, to be treated as quasi-equity, the aggregate amount of such
debentures should not exceed twice the equity proper.



ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 6
Audit
13.       The Articles of Association provide that at least three legally
competent persons will be elected annually to examine the performance of
management and the accounts of the bank. At least one of the examiners has
to be a chartered accountant approved by the Central Chamber of Commerce,
while two are Bank supervisors of the Bank of Finland.
Prospects
14.       MBF expects its business to expand at a faster pace than Finland's
industrial investment, which is projected to grow at about 6% per annum
during the period 1975-80. MBF's new activities--financing of water pollu-
tion control and energy saving investments by industry--will account for this
incremental increase. To carry out these functions, MBF needs to accelerate
the rate of its term borrowing on capital markets. As of December 31, 1974,
the available resources, including undisbursed loans and lines of credit,
totaled Fmk 45.1 million ($12.6 million), composed of Fmk 31.5 million equiv-
alent in foreign exchange and Fmk 13.6 million in domestic currency. The
estimated resource requirements during the next three years are summarized
below:
(a)  To finance its customary operations, MBF will need to raise
Fik 300-400 million equivalent in foreign exchange ($84-112
million) and Fmk 60-75 million in local currency over the
1975-77 period.
(b)  For pollution control investments MBF will need about Fmk 225
million, roughly half in foreign exchange and half in local
currency. For the 36 month commitment period covered by the
proposed Bank project (July 1, 1975 to December 31, 1977),
the foreign exchange required is $31 million equivalent, of
which a Bank loan of $20 million would cover 65% (see para.
5.11).
(c)  Though the limited information on the demand for future MBF
lending to finance energy saving investments does not permit
a reliable estimate, it is expected that the requirements over
the 1975-77 period could amount to Fmk 610-640 million.
15.       MBF's resource requirements for the 1975-77 period total Fmk 1.1 -
1.3 billion, after deducting funds available as of December 31, 1974. Besides
the requested Bank loan of $20 million for financing pollution control, MBF
expects to borrow more funds from the oil exporting countries, as it has re-
cently done; also, plans are under way to approach the international capital
market, particularly since terms have eased. To be prepared, MBF is in the
process of obtaining the Government's agreement to guarantee possible foreign
borrowings of up to Fmk 600 million. Also, MBF has received new authorization



ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 6
from the Bank of Finland to raise up to Fmk 400 million locally. The way
should therefore be clear for MBF to moibilize Fmk 1.0 billion in long-term
borrowings during the next three years. To reach the Fmk 1.1-1.3 billion
conceivably needed, MBF has self-generated funds and the possibility of raising
its share capital from Fik 27 to 81 million in accordance with its Articles
of Association. Even if the demand for funds exceeds these rough estimates,
it is probable that the Bank of Finland will provide the support needed by
its subsidiary to carry out operations.
16.       Presentation of the usual operational and financial projections is
not considered to be necessary in the case of MBF. The primary reason for
this is that MBF functions as an arm of its parent, the central bank, in bor-
rowing abroad (with the Government's guaranty) and therefore responds, some-
times on rather short notice, to requests for foreign exchange from its estab-
lished clients. Because MBF does not bear the foreign exchange risk on its
loans, is at least 166% secured against its borrowers, and has more than
ample reserves and provisions, it can be assumed that the Bank loan to MBF
will be secure and handled with the same prudence which is characteristic of
MBF's operations.
Conclusions
17.       MBF's performance under its past loans from the Bank has been
entirely satisfactory. Even though it has a unique relationship with the
central bank, MBF has nevertheless maintained independence in its operations.
The institution is sound and well managed. Its current and projected
operations and its organization and procedures meet Bank criteria. MBF can
therefore be considered to be creditworthy for a Bank loan of $20 million to
be used for financing pollution control investments by industry.



FINLAND: WATER POLLUTION CONTROL FROJECT
MOFiTGAGE BANK OF FINLAND OY
Summary of 24rations 1971-714: Loig-Term Loans
lAmounts in Fik Million)
Approvals              Commitments            Disbursements
1971                                 No. 7  ii Amount         _No.        Amount         Amount
Local currency                     4         15.5             2        2.5              7.0
Foreign currency                   4         78.0             2       58.5             61.5
Total              8        93.5             4        61.0             68.5
1972 2/
Local currency                      8        44.8             6       30.8             27.0
Foreign currency                   18       142.3            18     1148.2            155.8
Total             26       187.1            24       179.0            182.8
1973
Local currency                      3         6.5             5       28.0             31.0
Foreign currency                   15       139                       54.6              70.1
Total             18       141.0            14        82.6            101.1
1974
Local currency                    18        137.0            12       80.5             46.5
Foreign currency                    4        25.5            11                       146.2
Total             22       162.5            23       195.8            192.7
1/ As a number of applicants receive both local and foreign currency loans, the number of operations
in terms of projects assisted will be lower.
2/ In 1972, MBF contracted three foreign exchange loans totalling Fmk 41 million equivalent, for the
conversion of short-term credits into long-term loans. This helps explain the unusually high level
of operations in that year. Also, the decline in 1973 was due primarily to the prohibitive cost of
term borrowing on the international market that year.
EMENA/IC & DFC
April, 1975



ANNEX 9
FINLAND: WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
MORTGAGE BANK OF FINLAND OY
Outstanding Portfolio of Term Loans
as of December 31, 1974
Number      Percent of   Amount          Per cent
of Loans      Number      Outstanding    of Amount
(Fmk  illion)
Classification by Sectors:
Industry                              96           82.0        566.7.         75.0
Mining                                 7            6.0         30.2           4.0
Power                                  9            7.7        121.6          16.1
Municipalities                         5            4.3         36.6           4.9
Total                 117          100.0         755.1        100.0
In foreign exchange                                         575.9
In domestic currency                                        179.2
Total                                            755.1
Classification by Size of Loans
0  - L   million 1/                   15                         7.2
1  -5                                 53                       159.0
5  -10                                28                       192.7
10 - 20     n                         15                       215.4
Above 20    "                          6                       180.8
Total                  117                       755.1
Classification by Maturity 2/
1  - 3  years                         33                       123.2
3  - 5   "                            14                        77.2
5  - 10                               4 45                     323.8
10 - 15                               17                       149.0
Over 15  n                             8                        81.8
Total                  117                       755.1
1/ These loans were contracted in the earlier years of MBF's operations. Recent
practice has been to consider loans of only Fmk 1 million or more.
2/ Related to remaining maturities of outstanding amounts.
EMENA/IC&DFC
April, 1975



ANNEX 10
FINLAND: WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
MORTGAGE BANK OF FINLAND OY
Resources Employed as of December 31, 1974
Local Currency Resources
Share capital                                          27.0
Reser-ves                                              19.6
Equity                                                 4.6
Subordinated debentures 5-7% (1956-1973)               53.3
Loan Debentures                                         13.0
Subtotal              112.9
Foreign Currency Resources (Bonds and Loans)
in US$
IBRD loans 4-3/A% 5-3/4% (1956-1962)                  109.0
AID loans 3% (1958)                                    49.1
Bond loans 7-1/4%  8-1/2% (1967-1971)                  75.2
Floating rate loans 1972                               47.5
Fixed rate loans 8%  8-5/8%  8-3/4% 1972              128.7
Floating rate loans 1973-1974                         104 .6
Fixed rate loan 8-7/8% 1974                            38.5
In DM
Kfw 6-1/4% (1959)                                       3.7
Bond loan 6-3/4% (1969)                                74.3
Subtotal              630.6
Total Resources Employed             743.5
EKENA/IC&DFC
April, 1975



ANNEX 11
FINLAND: WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
MORTGAGE BANK OF FINLAND OY
Audited Income Statements
1971-1974
(Fmkc million)
INCOME                                        1971        1972         1973        1974
Interest and commissions                     38.0        47.7         51.0        56.5
Other income                                  0.2         0.1           -          1.0
Total                           382          47.8         51.0        57.5
EXPENSES
Salaries                                      0.2         0.3          0.4         0.5
Other administrative expenses                 0.2         0.3          0.4         0.7
Sub-total                         0.4         07                       1.2
Interest charges and commission              30.5        36.6         4o.3        46.2
Contingency reserve                           3.1         3.8          3.9         3.8
Total                           34M0        41.0         45.0        51.2
Gross earnings                                4.2         6.8          6.0         6.3
Taxation                                      2.2         4.0          3.0         2.9
Net profit                                    2.0         2.8            0         3.4
RATIOS
Total income as % of average                  7.3         7.7          7.5         8.0
total assets
Administrative expenses as %                  0.08        0.10         0.12        0.27
of average total assets
Financial expenses as % of                    6.4         6.5          6.5         7.0
average total assets
Earnings before tax as % of                  12.5        15.4        13.2         13.7
average net worth
Net profit as % of average                   5.9          6.3         6.7          7.3
net worth
Dividend as % of net income                    45          75           70          64
EME NA/IC &DFC
April, 1975



ANNEX 12
FINLAND: WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
MORTGAGE BANK OF FINLAND Or
Audited Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1971-1971
(Fik million)
1971      1972      1973       1974
ASSETS
Cash and deposits                          16.3      29.6        4.1       0.7
Long-term loans                           515.7     637.0      649.o     755.1   /
Provisions for losses                     (13.1)    (16.9)    (20.8)    (24.6)
Securities                                 24.6      30.1       17.2       9.5
Net fixed assets                             -         -          -         -
Transitory items, and other                11.3      12.8       19.1      22.4
Total assets                  554.8      692.6     668.6      763.1
LIABILITIES
Transitory items 2/ and                    10.4      12.8       13.1      14.0
other liabilities
Tax provision 3/                            5.6       5.6        5.6       5.6
Long-term debt:
Foreign borrowings                    467.0      601.7      594.6     630.6
Subordinated Fik debentures            28.0       28.0      39.8       53.3
Other Fmk debentures                      -         -          -       13.0
Share Capital                              27.0      27.0       27.0      27.0
Reserves  4/                               16.8      17.5       18.5      19.6
Total liabilities             554.8      692.6     686.6          1
Debt/equity  5/                           6.7:1     8.3:1      6.8:1     6.6sl
Reserves and provisions                     5.8       5.4        6.1       5.9
as % of portfolio
1/ Including the "adjustment item" (Fmk 38.2)in 1974 required by revised accounting
legislation.
2/ Including dividends due.
3/ Estimated at 60% of the "equalization item" related to hidden reserves due
to undervaluation of securities held.
4/  Including current profit after appropriation and 40% of the "equalization item".
7/  Subordinated debentures are included in the equity base in accordance with
the Mortgage Bank Act.
EMENA/IC&DFC
April, 1975



ANNEX 13
FINLAND: WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Processing Loan Applications for Water Pollution Control Invesnents
POB  -      ala,ater district                                     ETreauy
r PH ~~a loan, |Tesr
03
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 .     *,  
MBF                         application for a 'oan Tationa L Board 
statemnt      Waters:       statemen
Commissaion for a l
water pollution
control loans                           Committee for
loans
proposal for interest|    0 0
FOB       ^ s_bsidy loan         J 
statement                 C
loan decision ioan
griculture        'ommittee on
lnd Fores-,ry e         inance
E5)3   ^ decision upon water         o >
tection loan
_) Worki.g g p decision   upon water irnetianlowatnr p u           c
- dcsio   upo  eXots(as vinforlmation)     Ste             
_ _ L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ sn uon u                                          rasr
export lev  loan
Loan               Loan                                                                   Loan
t) Working group on the financing industria]. water pol.lution control investment
EMENA/IC&DFC
April, 1975



ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 1
FINLAND: WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Criteria for Loans from Public Funds to Industries
for Financing Water Pollution Control Investments
1.        The project must be considered necessary for the purpose of water
pollution control according to the national program, and it must conform to
the regional plan.
2.        To be eligible the borrowers must be enterprises which were in
operation no later than September 1, 1973. Given exceptional circumstances,
however, a loan could be made to a new industrial establishment.
3.        No pollution control loans would be made for financing the expan-
sion or alteration of production facilities which lead to an increase in "the
waste water load" of the industry. However, if the alteration of the produc-
tion process involves a decrease in "the waste water load", then the project
is eligible.
4.        It would be possible to finance investments required to connect
the sewage of an industrial plant to a public sewerage system.
5.        The loan application should be submitted to the regional office
of the NBW and must be subsequently approved by the NBW. Gross and net
costs must be worked out in sufficient detail (cost of planning the project
may also be included). The general design of the project, its financing,
timing, and the loan security to be furnished must all be set forth as well
as any other information which the NBW or the banks may require.
6.        No pollution control project started without prior approval of the
NBW is eligible, unless it happens to fit into the regional plan.
7.        The maximum amount of loan capital provided by the POB and MBF
would total 77% of project cost, with the borrower obliged to cover 23% of
project cost. The maximum loan from the POB would be 38.5% of total cost.
8.        The maximum term of POB loans would be 15 years including a maxi-
mum grace period of five years.
9.        The interest subsidy on the POB loans would be graduated according
to the degree of unprofitability of the pollution control investment.
10.       The NBW would be responsible for controlling and supervising the
use of loan proceeds, including the recommendation of sanctions for non-
compliance.
11.       The minimum total cost of an investment project eligible for finan-
cing is Fmk 50,000. Projects of a lesser amount would be considered if there
is sufficient urgency and demonstration of economic need.



ANNE3X 15
FINLAND: WATER POLLUTION CONTROL FROJECT
Marginal Cost Curve in a Pulp Mill (Kraft Process)
Investments 1000 US S
1. INCREASE OF EFFICIEICY IN WASHING AND CLOSING
OF SCREENING DEPARTMENT FOR UNBLEACHEO PULP
10 000_                                      2. STRIPPING OF CONDENSATE
3. STEAMING OF LOGS AND DRY BARKING
4                 6          4. PURIFICATION OF WASTE WATER IN AERATED POND
5. LIMITATION OF CASUAL OVERFLOWS
9 000                  6. OXYGEN BLEACHING
8 000-
7 000\
6 000O
5000\
4 000-
3
3 000-
2
2 000-
1000_ 
BOD. per ton of pulp
10               20                 30                40 kg
Graph 1. INVESTMENTS FOR THE REDUCTION OF BOD LOAD IN A MILL WITH A PRO-
DUCTION OF 700 TONS OF BLEACHED KRAFT PULP IN 24 HOURS. THE MILL
IS USING BATCH DIGESTION AND CONVENTIONAL WASHING
Source: Jaakko Poyry & Co., Oy (consulting engineers, Helsinki).
April, 1975



ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 9
FINLAND: WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Research
Monitoring and Data Collection
1.        Effluent monitoring:  All wastewater control systems, and all eco-
logical and water quality models, require information about the nature and
amount of residuals discharges. Important questions related to this are:
what sources--point and area (disbursed)--should be measured; what substances
in each effluent should be measured; and how frequently should these substances
be measured? (Annex 6 describes the principles involved.) With regard to
residuals discharges that have an adverse impact on aquatic systems, such as
-    biochemical oxygen demand (BOD)
-    plant nutrients (carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus)
-    specific heavy metals
-    toxic materials measured by such parameters as pH and
conductivity
-    persistent and nonpersistent organic biocides
-    heat
-    others, as appropriate,
the contractor should address the following questions:
(a) For specified alternative frequencies and acceptable accuracies
of observation, what are the appropriate measurement devices,
and their costs?
(b) How do costs of monitoring and data handling vary as a function
of frequency of observation?
(c) How much is the accuracy of estimation of (1) total discharge,
and (2) variance in discharge, affected by the frequency of
monitoring for different classes of dischargers? (This re-
quires an examination, and analysis, of the historic time
patterns of discharges of the various industries and an
understanding of the technical feasibility of modifying
discharge patterns in each.)
(d) For some reasonable effluent charge level, for example,
Fmk 1 per 1 kg of BOD, how does the revenue yield vary with
frequency of monitoring, computed from (c) above? How much
more would a monitoring system designed to measure short-term
variation in discharge cost than one designed to provide a
good estimate of average discharge, from (b) and (c), above?



ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 9
Questions (c) and (d) will require data from a continuous monitoring opera-
tion. It is our understanding that one or more such systems are being in-
stalled at Finnish paper mills. In cooperation with the benefit studies,
cost studies, systems analysis, and aquatic models contractors, a list of
appropriate residuals to be measured should be developed.
2.        Ambient conditions:  The contractor should consider data needs for
both baseline and trends, and for ecological modeling.
(a) Baseline and Trends Data
With regard to:
-    dissolved oxygen (DO)
-    nutrients (the four forms of nitrogen, and phosphorus)
-    temperature
-    pH
-    heavy metals--in sediments, suspended, and in species
-    persistent organics--in sediments, suspended, and in species
-    algal densities
-    fish populations
-    others, as appropriate,
the contractor should address the following questions:
(1) For given alternative frequencies, locations, and accept-
able accuracies of observation, what are the appropriate
measurement devices (including observations from satellites
using infrared technology, etc.) and data transmission and
storage systems? How do lesser cost systems compare in
accuracy and dependability?
(2) How do costs of monitoring and data handling vary as a
function of frequency of observation?
(3) What are the special problems presented by a largely
lacustrine environment such as that characteristic of
Finland, and how can they best be dealt with? In answer-
ing this question, the contractor should give due account
to:
-    Currents and mixing characteristics of lakes,
and chains of lakes
-    Stratification
-    Bottom deposits
-    Residence time of water in lakes
-    Other characteristics, as appropriate.



ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 9
(b) Data for ecological modeling
The contractor should assess the data requirements of several
potentially relevant ecological and water quality models, among
them:
(1) The Baltic Sea model being developed at the Asko Labora-
tory (Sweden).
(2) The North Sea model being developed in Belgium.
(3) The aquatic ecosystem model of the Delaware Estuary devel-
oped at Resources for the Future (USA).
(4)  The aquatic ecosystem model of Narragansett Bay being de-
veloped at the University of Rhode Island (USA).
(5) The aquatic ecosystem model of Lake Washington developed
at Water Resources Engineers (USA).
(6) The various available phytoplankton models such as those
developed at Manhattan College (USA).
(7) Classical water quality models of the dissolved oxygen
type.
3.        In consultation with the systems analysis contractor, the monitor-
ing contractor should develop, for a specific selected water body or bodies
(the Case Study Area) a system for data collection and handling for both
baseline and trends, and for modeling purposes. In cooperation with the
systems analysis, benefit studies, and aquatic modeling contractors, the
monitoring contractor should define the types of data to be collected and
the frequency of collection and the required types of hardware and software.
The contractor should estimate the costs (capital, operating, and maintenance)
of at least two alternative systems and compare and contrast their costs,
benefits, and capabilities, with due regard for the ability of the equipment
to function properly under extreme weather conditions, especially with respect
to temperature and humidity. The contractor should also discuss the mainte-
nance and calibration needs, including the frequency of calibration and the
cleaning of probes (if relevant), associated with the two systems. An esti-
mate of the benefits of more and different kinds of data should be made in
cooperation with the other contractors, especially the aquatic model and
systems analysis contractors.
4.        The contractor should describe the nature of the existing monitor-
ing system and assess it in view of the above findings.



ANNEX 16
Page 4 of 9
Aquatic Models
5.        The contractor should carry out this entire project in close col-
laboration with the Finnish National Board of Waters and the contractors
working on the monitoring and systems studies. In consultation with the
systems analysis contractor, the aquatic models contractor should select a
lake, or watershed, to be used as the Case Study Area for aquatic modeling
and for point 3 of the monitoring terms of reference.
6.        In consultation with the monitoring contractor, the aquatic models
contractor should examine a number of aquatic ecosystem and water quality
models (including those indicated in 2(b) of the monitoring terms of refer-
ence) with regard to their data, data collection methods, implications and
general suitability to the Finnish situation. In considering data collection
implications, special attention should be given to improving the current un-
derstanding of materials transport phenomena (the hydrodynamics).
7.        In view of the considerations in the above para, the contractor
should select a model type which is deemed feasible, provides the kinds of
outputs that are needed for making decisions on the uses of the water body(ies),
and goes as far in the direction of being a genuine ecological system model as
possibLe within the constraint of providing a useful model for management pur-
poses, at least as far as being able to predict algal densities. A major
consideration should be its suitability for incorporation within a least-cost
optimizing model for meeting alternative sets of water quality standards.
The selection should be made in close coordination with the NBW staff and
the contractor on the systems analysis study.
8.        The contractor should adapt and develop the model as needed to fit
the specific characteristics of the selected Case Study Area and to fit within
the framework for analysis established by the systems analysis contractor,
and should prepare a computer program for running the model.
9.        In conjunction with the monitoring contractor and the NBW staff,
the aquatic models contractor should design a data collection program for
implementation of the model and collect the needed data.
10.       The contractor should work with the NBW staff and the systems
contractor in running the model for policy analysis purposes.
Cost St;udies
11.       The contractor should develop an analytical model of pulp and paper
industrial processes (and others if needed) with the following capabilities:
(a) Be adaptable to all the relevant processes used in the produc-
tion of pulp and paper and to the specifics of plant design.



ANNEX 16
Page 5 of 9
(b) Be able to distinguish between process or other changes made
specifically for discharge control and those which could be
made to improve the profitability of the plant. W4here a com-
bination of these is involved, the model should be able to
determine the net cost of the former.
(c) Be able to account for those situations in which control meas-
ures instituted to control one substance incidentally influence
the generation or discharge of others, be they liquid, gaseous,
or solid.
(d) Be able to generate cost functions for the reduction of one
residual, or a set of residuals, while discharge limits are
put on others, be they liquid, gaseous, or solid. Substances
of interest in the aquatic environment should be identified in
consultation with the aquatic models contractor.
12.       In developing a model, or models, with the above listed capabilities,
the contractor should examine the feasibility of using the mathematical pro-
gramming methodology which has already been successfully developed for the
petroleum refining and steel industries.
13.       The contractor should work closely with the systems analysis and
aquatic models contractors to fit the cost-generating and residuals discharge
module into the general systems (management) model.
14.       The contractor should generate cost functions for municipal waste-
water treatment, including plant nutrient removal processes, for the purpose
of incorporating them within the general systems (management) model.
15.       The contractor, in consultation with the aquatic models and systems
analysis contractors, should identify other technologies which might feasibly
be implemented for the purpose of improving water quality in the Case Study
Area and develop cost functions for them suitable for use in the general sys-
tem (management) model. These should include, but not necessarily be limited
to:
(a)  Instream aeration.
(b) Diversion of wastewaters to more favorable locations, including
disposal on land.
(c) Reduction of materials from natural and other non-point sources
such as agricultural (including forestry) runoff.
Benefit Studies
16.       In consultation with the systems analysis contractor, the benefit
studies contractor should identify those quality characteristics most impor-
tantly influencing the recreational value of water bodies in the Finnish
context.



ANNEX 16
Page 6 of 9
17.       The contractor should carefully examine the theoretical basis for,
and empirical aspects of:
(a) property values
(b) cost,of travel
(c) willingness-to-pay questionnaires
(d) health, fishing, reduced water purification costs for munic-
ipalities, intangibles such as aesthetics and social attitudes,
etc.
(e) income distribution effects on all of the above.
as methods of measuring the benefits from water quality improvement. This
should serve as the basis for a carefully developed conceptual framework for
the benefit evaluation studies.
18.       In making the assessment of methodologies and in developing a con-
ceptual framework, special attention should be given to property values as
a possible basis for benefit evaluation because Finland appears to offer a
uniquely rich body of data of this type.
19.       In conjunction with the systems analysis contractor, the contractor
should design a benefit evaluation procedure for the Case Study Area and pro-
vide quantitative estimates of benefits for incorporation in the general sys-
tem (management) model.
20.       The contractor should identify and generally assess any non-recrea-
tional damages which might occur in the Case Study Area. If these appear to
be significant, the contractor should design a technique for evaluating them
and provide quantitative estimates of the benefits for incorporation in the
overall management model.
Systems Analysis
21.       One general task of the systems analysis contractor will be to
coordinate and exercise general supervision over the aquatic models, cost,
benefit, and effluent charges studies. In addition, the contractor must
work in close collaboration with the monitoring contractor.
22.       The contractor must design a systems analysis methodology for the
chosen Case Study Area. In doing this, he should carefully study and assess
methodologies which have previously been applied to water quality management
problems. These methodologies fall into two broad classes:
(a) simulation
(b) mathematical programming (linear, integer, and nonlinear)



ANNEX 16
Page 7 of 9
23.       In making his methodological assessment, the contractor should
give close attention to the possible application of mathematical programming
to the situation. Since the problem is one of optimization, simulation is
inherently less well suited to it than programming and should be regarded
only as a fallback methodology should the system not lend itself to a pro-
gramming format.
24.       The contractor must design the systems methodology in such a way
that the modules provided by other contractors will fit integrally into the
computation procedure. The individual modules, including the industrial
residuals generation and the aquatic models, in turn will have been developed
in close consultation with the systems analysis contractor.
25.       The contractor will write or otherwise provide the necessary com-
puter program or programs.  In performing this task, he will assure that the
NBW staff is thoroughly involved in the process, understands the details of
the program, and can successfully run the computer program for the purpose
of doing its own analyses.
26.       The contractor will run the program, or assist NBW staff in running
the program, for the purpose of analyzing least-cost alternative policies
including but not necessarily limited to:
(a) Unrestricted discharge reduction requirement to meet alterna-
tive sets of specified water quality standards, and the asso-
ciated costs and benefits of alternative sets of water quality
standards so achieved, and the distributional implications
thereof.
(b) Imposition of uniform waste discharge reduction requirement
(percentage reduction) to meet alternative sets of specified
water quality standards, and the associated costs and bene-
fits including their distribution.
(c) Mixtures of the two strategies, perhaps by zones or regions.
(d) Imposition of a uniform effluents charge schedule.
27.       The contractor will do additional studies as worked out with the
effluent charges contractor (see following terms of reference).
Effluent Charges
28.       The contractor should provide a review of the literature with re-
spect to effluent charges. The review should give due attention to:
(a) The theoretical and conceptual foundations for effluent
charges.
(b) The economic efficiency characteristics of effluent charges
vis-a-vis possible alternative policy instruments.



ANNEX 16
Page 8 of 9
(c) The equity aspects of effluent charges vis-a-vis possible
alternative policy instruments.
(d) The effectiveness of effluent charges in inducing action on
the part of residuals dischargers vis-a-vis possible alterna-
tive policy instruments.
(e) The information required to implement various types of effluent
charges schemes vis-a-vis possible alternative policy instruments.
29.       The constractor should review experience with, and proposals for,
effluent charges in other countries. These reviews should include experiences
in:
Czechoslovakia
Hungary
France
The Ruhr area of West Germany
and experience with sewer surcharges in various cities. In addition, the
contractor should carefully review the proposed effluent charges law in West
Germany.
30.       The contractor should provide an analysis of how an effluent charges
policy could best be fitted into the legal and institutional structure of
Finland.
31.       The contractor should examine the problem of determining an appro-
priate set of charges to take account of multiple types of waste discharges,
as described in para 1 of monitoring terms of reference. In performing this
task, he should review the formulas used in the Ruhr area of West Germany, in
various sewer surcharge systems, and those proposed for the new West German
water legislation. The contractor should provide one or more formulas suitable
for the Finnish situation and provide a justification for them.
32.       The contractor should examine the problem of determining an appro-
priate set of charges for meeting water quality standards in the face of time-
varying natural systems and residuals discharges, and stochastic influences.
33.       The contractor should collaborate with the systems analysis contrac-
tor in conducting experiments with the systems (management) model to see how
various systems of effluent charges in the Case Study Area (including uniform
reduction applied to all dischargers, uniform reduction by zones, uniform
charges, and charges specifically tailored to individual sources of waste
discharge) would likely perform with respect to:
-    costs
-    benefits
-    equity of effects in terms of the distribution of costs among
dischargers.



ANNEX 16
Page 9 of 9
34.       The contractor in close collaboration with the systems analysis con-
tractor should compare the results of these experiments with the other systems
analyses as indicated in the terms of reference for the systems analysis con-
tractor.
35.       The contractor should provide a report indicating his findings with
respect to each of the points in these terms of reference.
Baltic Sea
36.       The Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the
Baltic Sea Area has been signed by the seven riparian countries--Denmark,
Finland, German Democratic Republic, German Federal Republic, Poland, Sweden,
and the Soviet Union. This has given rise to a large international research
effort on the Baltic. It involves primarily data collection, and the overall
cost will run approximately Fmk 40 million per year; Finland's share will be
about Fik 5 million per year. Because the Baltic effort appears to be rather
narrowly scientific in its approach, it would be desirable to study the con-
ceptual phase of an integrative approach in Baltic research. An important
component of such an effort would be the development of an ecological model
of the Baltic Sea analogous to those now being developed for the North Sea
and the New York Bight region. In principle, a conceptual apparatus should
be developed early on to guide the data collection effort. Such a model is
in fact being designed, at least preliminary investigations have already been
made (see, for example, S. Sjoberg, F. Wulff, and 0. Wahlstrom, "The Use of
Computer Simulations for Systems Ecological Studies in the Baltic," Asko
Laboratory, Stockholm University, Box 58, S-150 13 Trosa, Sweden; and Bengt-
Owe Jansson, "Ecosystem Approach to the Baltic Problem," Bulletin No. 16
from the Ecological Research Committee, Swedish Natural Science Research
Council, Asko Laboratory).
37.       It would seem appropriate for the NBW to support this effort by con-
tributing some manpower to it. This would also have the advantage of giving
the NBW some experience in this type of modeling which should prove useful in
connection with the lake ecosystem modeling already discussed. In conjunction,
sources and levels of discharges from the riparian countries should be esti-
mated and an assessment made of the impact on the quality of the Baltic of
reducing these discharges. In addition, costs of reducing discharges to the
Baltic Sea from the various sources and tributaries within the riparian coun-
tries should be estimated. This information would provide the basis for dis-
cussions among the seven countries for improving the quallty of the Baltic Sea.



ANNEX 17
FINLAND: WATER POLLUTION CONrROL PROJECT
MORTGAGE BANK OF FINLAND OY
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements   1/
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter                        Cuimulative Disbursements at
end of Quarter (US$ '300)
1976
September 30, 1975                                        _
December 31, 1975                                       1,000
March :31, 1976                                         2,500
June 30, 1976                                           4,000
1977
September 30, 1976                                      5,500
December 31, 1976                                       7,000
March 31, 1977                                          8,500
June 30, 1977                                          10,000
1978
September 30, 1977                                     11,500
December 31, 1977                                      13,000
March 31, 1978                                         14,250
June 30, 1978                                          15,500
1979
September 30, 1978                                     16,750
December 31, 1978                                      18,000
March 31, 1979                                         18,500
June 30, 1979                                          19,000
1980
September 30, 1979                                     19,500
December 31, 1979                                      20,000
March 31, 1980
June 30, 1980
1/ Estimated date of effectiveness is July 1, 1975,and estimated closing date is
December 31, 1979.
EMENA/IC&DFC
April, 1975



lb
Z
%
.....  .                                                                        N7.
p
: . p :                                                                                                                 . . . . . . .
.       . . . . . .  . . . . .
mm
4>                                                                                                    so
"It
5F,
. . . . . . .      . . . . .
p                               ::V 
.... ......
Al
Cf)
0 Q 0
10
U
O    S                                                        z z
r) >
0  z                                                             Cb
cn                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6T                                                                        '3



