Document ofD
The World Barnk                                       '       J
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3578-GUI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AS'SOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR12.1 MILLION
TO THE
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBL:[C OF GUINEA
FOR A
CONAKRY PORT PROJECT
May 18, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perormance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
The official monetary unit is the Syli
Syli 1           =             US$0.05
US$1             =             Syli 23
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB      -  African Development Bank
ENTRAT    -  Entreprise Nationale de Transit et de Transport
(Transit Company)
GTZ       -  Deutsche Gesellschaft fUr Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German Technical Cooperation Agency)
KfW       -  Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau (German Aid Agency)
PAC       -  Port Authority of Conakry
PPF       -  Project Preparation Facility
SNG       -  Societe Navale Guineenne (Maritime Agency)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1    -    December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
CONAKRY PORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea
Beneficiary:             Port Authority of Conmkry (PAC)
Amount:                  SDR12.1 million (US$1-.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
Relending Terms:         13 percent over 20 years including a four-year grace
period.
Project Description:    The project would rehabilitate and replace existing
port infrastructure and equipment and help strengthen
the autonomous and weLl-organized port authority at
Conakry, thus removing constraints making the port a
bottleneck to Guinea's economic development. It
provides rehabilitation and repair of quays, port
buildings, and transport and navigation equipment, and
management, accounting and planning technical
assistance to PAC.
Benefits and Risks:      The project would improve the port's productivity and
financial and managemi3nt performance, reduce cargo
losses through pilferage and poor handling and reduce
ocean freight costs o:n Guinea's imports and exports.
The project faces the risks that cargo traffic may not
develop as projected, and its financial viability
depends on the phased and timely implementation of
necessary tariff increases and close adherence to
revenue covenants.
a~~
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Project Cost: 1/
--------US$ million--------
Local      Foreign      Total
Civil Works                                1.5        13.5        15.0
Equipment and Spare parts                   -          8.6         8.6
Data Processing                                        0.3         0.3
Technical Assistance                        -          2.8         2.8
Consulting Services                        0.2         2.1         2.3
Base Cost                                  1.7        27.3        29.0
Physical Contingencies                     0.2         3.2         3.4
Price Contingencies                        0.4         4.6         5.0
Refinancing of PPF Advance                  -          0.6         0.6
Total Project Cost                         2.3        35.7        38.0
Interest during construction               5.7          -          5.7
Increase in working capital/cash          10.4          -         10.4
Tota:L Financing required                 18.4        35.7        54.1
Financing Plan
------US$ million-------
Local    Foreign    Total
IDA                                   -        13.0       13.0
AfDB                                  -        14.0       14.0
Germany   KfW                         -         6.0        6.0
GTZ                        -         2.7        2.7
Total External Sources                -        35.7       35.7
PAC Cash Generation                 15.2         -        15.2
Government (equity)                  3.3         -         3.3
Total                               18.4       35.7       54.1
Estimated IDA Credit Disbursements:
----------------US$ million-----------------
FY84       FY85       FY86       FY87       FY88
Annual                   1.5        5.1        2.7        3.4        0.3
Cumulative               1.5        6.6        9-3       12.7       13.0
f
Economic Rate of Return: 36 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No.4160-GUI, dated                         1983.
Maps: IBRD No. 16680, 16681 and 16682
1/   Net of identifiable taxes and duties, from which the project will be
exempt. Totals may not add because of rounding.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S ItEPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A CONAKRY PORT PRIOJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Devel-
opment Credit to the Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea for SDR12.1
million (US$13.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
Port Project in Conakry. Additional financings for the project would be pro-
vided by the African Development Bank (AfDB) cnd the Federal Republic of
Germany (KfW and GTZ), in amounts equivalent t;o US$14.0 million and US$8.7
million respectively.
PART I - THE ECONObIY 1/
2.        An Economic Memorandum was discussed with the Government in June 1981
and distributed to the Board in August 1981. This section summmarizes the
contents of that Memorandum, and focuses on changes in Guinea's economic situ-
ation and policies over recent years.
3.        Despite its mineral and agricultural potential, Guinea saw declining
economic performance from Independence in 1958 until about 1973-74. Economic
activity, with a stimulus from mining, grew rapidly between 1973-76, but again
at a slower pace since then. At present, mosl; of Guinea's 5.5 million inha-
bitants live at the margin of poverty. With a per capita income of about
US$300 in 1981, Guinea belongs among the least developed countries as classi-
fied by the United Nations. Life expectancy is only 44 years, infant morta-
lity is about 17 percent, 90 percent of population has no access to safe
water, and 80 percent of adult population is illiterate.
4.        Since 1976, and particularly since 1979, Guinea has been re-examining
its development policies, institutions, and relations with the outside world.
It has recently announced significant policy reforms, some of which the pro-
posed project would support. Important first steps have been taken towards
improved economic management and decentralization of the economy: excessive
money supply was gradually reduced; more expl-cit performance criteria and
greater autonomy of public enterprises are bei.ng introduced, sectoral public
holding companies have been dismantled, and a reform of the banking sector has
been initiated; there is greater acceptance of technical assistance for plan-
ning, investment programming, and project preparation; there is increased
recognition of the need for economic pricing of resources (e.g., interest
rates have been doubled and electricity tarif.fs increased); private trade has
been legalized, state retail trade has been d'-scontinued, and most price
1/   Parts I and II are substantially the same as the President's Report
for the Second Education Project, (P-3478-GUI) dated March 8, 1983.



- 2 -
controls have been permitted to lapse, thus liberalizing and encouraging the
agricultural sector; private investment, small and medium-scale enterprises,
foreign direct investment, and the return of expatriate Guinean capital are
being encouraged, and some private enterprises have been allowed to import and
export most goods and to borrow and hold foreign exchange; enrollments in
higher education have been reduced and more students are being directed to
vocational training; manpower planning is being introduced, and the guarantee
of state employment to school graduates is being reappraised, with a view to
curtailing the increase in public employment. These steps reflect a signifi-
cant and broadly based attempt to address Guinea's deep-seated problems and
poor economic performance, and represent fundamental changes from past policies.
Recent Performance
5.       Despite some progress made since 1974, Guinea's economic development
is hampered by structural problems. The economy is stagnating and the balance
of payments faces chronic deficits. Foreign exchange supply cannot satisfy
domestic consumption, service external debt, and finance capital and recurrent
costs of existing and new projects. Limited absorptive capacity hampers in-
vestment and the inflow of foreign capital. The overvaluation of domestic
currency perpetuates distorted prices and wages and creates an unattractive
environment for producers and investors (both domestic and foreign), affecting
output and export performance. The main productive sector - agriculture -
produces well below potential because of inadequate producer incentives, input
delivery, extension services, infrastructure and marketing facilities. Guinea's
current pace of economic development permits neither an increase in the
standard of living of the population nor the generation of domestic savings
for self--sustained growth and development.
6.       Increased domestic output especially for exports, a stricter control
of aggregate demand, as well as quantitative import restrictions, allowed
Guinea to record a balance of merchandise trade surplus of about US$66 million
per year on the average between 1979-81. This resulted in a reduction in the
current account deficit to 3.4 percent of GDP from 6-7 percent of GDP in pre-
vious years. However, the capital account remains in difficulty because of
Guinea's inability to attract higher capital inflows while facing important
amortization obligations. Overall balance of payments deficits have thus
represented 5.5 percent of GDP between 1979-81 (about US$90 million per year),
and they have been financed in equal proportion through an accumulation of
debt arrears and by a decrease in gross foreign exchange reserves. In mid-
1982 foreign reserves covered about two weeks of merchandise imports.
7.       Government's current revenues (about 33 percent of GDP, largely
dependent on mining exports), increased at a rate of 9.6 percent per annum in
1977-81, while at the same time current expenditures advanced at an annual
rate of I12.9 percent, mainly on account of expanding Government bills for
wages and salaries and of growing interest obligations.  At the same time, the
state en-terprise sector has absorbed heavy subsidies not only on current
account but also in the form of capital transfers and indirectly through the
intermediation of the state banking system. In total, the parastatal sector
received about GS 20 billion (US$1 billion equivalent) of financial support,
or 13 percent of GDP annually over the 1977-81 period.  The overall deficit of



the Government reached US$3.6 billion equivalent (10 percent of GDP) in
1S981. In an attempt to curb the growth of current expenditure on wages and
salaries, the Government has enforced a decline in university enrollments from
20,700 students in 1978/79 to 12,100 students in 1981/82, and has terminated
automatic recruitment of new graduates into the public sector.
8,1      Other than the enclave mining projects, most productive investment in
Guinea is of a public and parapublic nature. During the last development plan
(October 1973 to December 1978), public investment reached US$478 million (55
percent of planned expenditure) averaging 10 percent of GDP. Total investment
was modest at 15 percent of GDP on the average. Two-thirds of public invest-
ment was financed by foreign assistance. The ongoing plan (1981-85) projects
much higher investments of US$1.6 billion (in 1980 prices), favoring agricul-
ture (31 percent) and industry (14 percent). Many of the proposed projects
are, however, in preliminary stages of preparation, and their financing is not
yet sure. It appears unlikely that the proposed investment targets could be
reached. During the 1979-81 period, public and parapublic investment repre-
sented about US$164 million per year in current terms, remaining at about the
same level as the previous plan exercise in terms of GNP.
9.       Recognizing the need to maintain and use existing capital assets
better, Government has increased the proportion of its recurrent budget for
maintenance and repair. It is also undertaking a serious examination of the
viability of state enterprises and has closed some. The least successful ones
(including the entire network of retail trade enterprises outside Conakry)
have been closed down, while others have embarked on rehabilitation programs,
mostly with external assistance. Recent poli3ies in the parapublic sector aim
at making parastatals financially self-sufficient, more responsive to market
mechanisms, and more receptive to technical a3sistance.
Prospects
10.      Guinea's long-term development possibilities are substantial, based
on its agricultural, mineral and hydroelectric potential. However, with 80
percent of the population in the rural sector, and with modest national
savings (about 9.5 percent of GDP in 1980) combined with an acute shortage of
foreign exchange, the exploitation of this potential hinges on the country's
ability to provide incentives to agricultural producers and to attract foreign
capital for investment in mining and ore-processing.
11.      It will not be easy during the 1980's to overcome Guinea's basic
foreign exchange constraint. Present mining capacity for export is unlikely
to expand significantly, and while new large-scale projects (bauxite, iron
ore) are on the drawing board, they are unlikely to reach fruition very
soon. In the meantime, the trend for agricultural exports to disappear has
been reversed only outside official transactions, and with existing price
distortions linked to the over-valued exchange rate, the mounting volume of
food imports -- together with the debt service burden -- has significantly
displaced possibilities of non-food consumer goods imports. The lack of such
possibilities, together with producer price disincentives, has contributed to
discourage rural production above subsistence.



- 4 -
12.      Guinea's best prospects for economic development in the medium term
lie in efforts to induce growth, particularly in agriculture, by further
liberalizing the environment to provide incentives to production, increaslng
the efficiency of the public sector, and improving resource management and
project preparation. Such policies could significantly alter the country's
development outlook and offer new investment opportunities for external
assistance. The Bank is assisting the Government in this area through project
and sector work.  A major Agricultural Sector Review organized by the Bank
with the support of several other agencies (CIDA, USAID, CCCE, IFAD, UNESCO)
took place in November/December 1982, and its output is hoped to be a signi-
ficant step in assisting Government to bring about policy reforms and to
expand possibilities for agricultural lending. However, during most of the
1980s, Guinea would face a difficult transition period when increased foreign
assistance, especially on concessional terms, would be needed to ease the
balance of payments difficulties and contribute to a gradual realization of
the country's considerable development potential. Particularly crucial will
be Government's success in correcting price and exchange rate distortions,
improving the agricultural incentives structure, and ensuring rational pro-
gramming of public investments.
Foreign Assistance and External Debt
13.      Since 1975-76, Guinea has been diversifying its sources of foreign
assistance through renewed ties with the Western industrialized countries, and
expanded relations with Arab countries and with multilateral sources. Guinea
has qualified for drawings under the IMF first credit tranche and trust fund
facilities, and it has successfully negotiated access to second and third
credit tranches.
14.      The accumulation of foreign debt to finance investments in infra-
structure and public enterprises, as well as consumer goods, has resulted in a
burden of foreign obligations which is, and will remain for years, a major
problem. Guinea's external outstanding public and private debt guaranteed
reached US$1.6 billion as of December 31, 1981, of which US$1.25 billion (81
percent of GNP) was disbursed. Service obligations on this debt are projected
at US$137 million per annum over 1982-86. Foreign exchange shortages have
hindered the payment of debt service, and outstanding arrears totalled US$144
million at the end of 1981. The ratio of public and publicly guaranteed debt
service obligations to gross export earnings in 1981 was about 28 percent.
Actual service payments on this debt amounted to about 17 percent of export
receipts. Debt service on private non-guaranteed debt represented about 10
percent of the 1981 export earnings.
15.      Although Guinea's debt service coverage has shown some improvement,
accumulated arrears are likely to increase in absolute terms unless there is
new debt rescheduling or major changes in the present allocation of foreign
exchange. The Government has addressed the problem through debt rescheduling
negotiated bilaterally with some creditors, and measures to improve debt mana-
gement via the newly established External Debt Department in the Central Bank,
to which the Bank has provided technical advice as part of its economic work.
Government has also undertaken both a stricter control of investments financed
by external credits and a more judicious official import program. The



- 5 -
pressure on imports was somewhat relieved in recent years by official tolera-
tion of some private exports at the free rate outside official foreign ex-
change circuits.  However successful these operations may be, Guinea will have
to rely on substantial amounts of foreign assistance on concessional terms
during the next few years. This will be needed not only for investment pur-
poses but also to provide foreign exchange for intermediate and consumer good
imports which are vital to stimulate economic activity and relieve supply con-
straints, particularly in the rural sector. Furthermore, net public savings
after debt service will be inadequate until at least the late 1980s, and local
cost and recurrent expenditure financing by eKternal sources will be needed.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
16.      The first Bank Group operation in Guinea comprised two loans in FY68
and FY71 for the very successful bauxite mining project at Boke. This project
was followed by IDA credits in the mid-1970's for pineapple production and the
rehabilitation of roads. Encouraged by the first results of these projects,
the Bank Group began to diversify and expand its lending program, based upon
broad priorities agreed with Government: (i) rehabilitation and maintenance
of basic infrastructure; (ii) improvement of human resources; (iii) mining
development; and (iv) development of the rural sector. Bank operations in
each of these areas have been approved, with particular emphasis on sectoral
planning, institution building and training. Thus, the Power Engineering
project and subsequent First Power project (FYs79,81) are rehabilitating the
Conakry power system and a Water Supply project (FY79) is providing similar
assistance. Although the Second Highway project (FY80) continues and extends
the successful first, its performance has only recently recovered following a
period of misuse of equipment and lack of fuel. The Government took firm
action to remove the problems and a Third Highway Project has been appraised.
Implementation of the Industrial Rehabilitation and Promotion Project (FY82),
initiated through PPF financing, has started well. A first IFC operation, to
the AREDOR diamond mining company, has also nade a good start. The FY79 First
Education Project has been very satisfactorily implemented, and has provided a
sound basis for efficient preparation and execution of the Second Education
Project, which was recently approved.
17.      It is in the rural sector that the Government has experienced the
greatest difficulty in harnessing its development potential. Logistical
support for the rural sector, financial incentives, access to modern tech-
nology and applied agricultural research, have been almost nonexistent. To
deal with these fundamental problems, two projects are providing direct
intervention in sub-sectors with substantial growth potential. The Rice
Development Project (FY80) stresses national institution-building and intro-
duces pilot low-cost improved rice production methods in an area with high
potential. A study of agricultural prices and rural incentives has been
completed and Government has accepted the need for improved incentives. As
part of the intensive dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government, a
major Agricultural Sector Plission (para 12) will provide a focus for new
directions for agricultural development and policy formulation. The Livestock



- 6 -
Development Project (FY81), which aims at strengthening the national institu-
tions responsible for day-to-day field operations, sectoral planning and
analysis, improving animal health and productivity and training livestock
sector staff, has had substantial problems due to the continuation of enforced
Government cattle purchase. Intensive discussions are in progress to resolve
this problem.
18.      Bank Group operations in Guinea now include ten IDA Credits totalling
US$64.9 million and SDR 63.0 million, and two Bank loans totalling US$73.5
million. Guinea's disbursement rate (disbursements in relation to the undis-
bursed balance) compares very favorably with that of other countries, averag-
ing 40 percent during the past five years, compared with 24 percent for the
Western Africa Region and 22 percent for the Bank/IDA as a whole.  Guinea's
rate also compares favorably with those of other countries at similar levels
of per capita income and development.
19.      Current Strategy.  The proposed Bank Group lending program, supported
by an expanded program of economic and sector work, is based on a strategy of
promoting growth through support to the directly productive sectors, and by
encouraging key policy reforms at the project and sectoral levels aimed at
improving existing economic mechanisms and promoting market forces. Specific
targets are: (a) giving priority to projects that increase production and
exports; (b) improving absorptive capacity in those social and infrastructure
sectors which support the productive sectors, through rehabilitation, tech-
nical and managerial training; (c) introducing technical assistance directed
towards policy reforms, improved economic management and resource allocation;
and (d) improving capital flows through the promotion of private investment
and increasing the level of cofinancing.
20.      Apart from the proposed Conakry Port Project, IDA has recently
appraised projects for technical assistance for economic management and for
highway rehabilitation and maintenance. A PPF advance is currently being used
to prepare a technical assistance project for oil and mineral exploration
promotion.  The Bank is planning to discuss with Government the price and
incentive structure for agriculture, and is seeking to increase the sectoral
knowledge necessary to develop, and conditional upon policy changes, expand
agricultural operations. It is equally important for the Bank to deepen its
understanding of the industrial sector through additional sector work and
policy discussions, possibly leading to a second industrial rehabilitation
operation.
21.      In the mining sector, final feasibility studies for the proposed
Nimba iron ore project are under preparation. The Bank is providing technical
advice to Government for this project, as well as for the analysis of the
Konkoure hydro/aluminum smelter project, in which it has been acting as exe-
cuting agency for a UNDP-financed study of the aluminum smelter component.
22.      The Bank Group's share of Guinea's external debt (public and private
guaranteed) at the end of 1980 stood at about 8 percent (including undis-
bursed). Its portion of external debt disbursed is expected to be 11 percent
by 1985 compared with 8 percent in 1981; its share of debt service on public



debt and private debt guaranteed, 6.6 percent in 1980, is expected to decline
to 3.7 percent by 1985.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
23.      At independence in 1958, Guinea was wrell-endowed with an extensive
road and rail network and with a port facility at Conakry.  In the years
immediately following, major additions were made to rail and port infrastruc-
ture, mainly to carry the rapidly developing bauxite and alumina traffic.
Three enclave rail lines and dedicated port facilities at Kamsar and ore hand-
ling berths at Conakry were built in the 1960s and 1970's (Map IBRD 16880).
The Guinean transport infrastructure now comprises: 14,000 km of roads (1,200
km paved); the public rail line from Conakry to Kankan (662 km); the three
enclave rail lines - Conakry-Fria (alumina), Conakry-Kindia (bauxite) and
Sangaredi-Kamsar (bauxite); deep water port facilities at Kamsar and Conakry;
the main international airport at Conakry, with secondary airports at Kankan,
Faranah and seven other regional centers. Despite this relative wealth of
transport infrastructure, poor management, inadequate maintenance and insuf-
ficient capital funding have caused extensive deterioration of all but a small
proportion of it.
24.      The Guinean road system carries the bulk of the internal commodity
traffic outside the enclave mining sector. Traffic volumes on the main roads
leading out of Conakry average 2000 vpd, most of which are goods transport
vehicles. The state of the public rail line and the unreliability of its
services have contributed to its decline, and it offers little, if any, com-
petition to road transport. Extensive rehabilitation and maintenance of the
primary and secondary road network was begun under the IDA-financed first
Highway Project and has continued under the Second Project. Despite the
progress achieved, substantial improvements are still needed and form the
backbone of the Government's investment strategy for the roads subsector. The
road transport industry is hampered by lack of foreign exchange for spare
parts, and fuel is sometimes unavailable in the interior. However, as infra-
structure maintenance is improved further, Guinea's road system should have
little difficulty coping with the transport demand in the main agricultural
centers of the country.
25.      The national airline, Air Guinee, carries about 120,000 passengers a
year and plays a relatively important role ir domestic passenger transport.
The port of Conakry, proposed for improvement; under this project, serves as
the country's main and critical maritime gateway, with Kamsar handling only
bauxite exports from the Boke mines. A smal]. secondary port at Benty has
declined in importance as a banana port and now handles insignificant domestic
coastal traffic.
Management, Planning and Coordination
26.      Sector management, planning and coordination have been weak and, with
:inadequate resources for maintenance, have contributed largely to the deterio-
ration of transport infrastructure. Overall responsibility lies with the



- 8 -
Ministry of Transport, but lack of competent personnel and reliable data
result in almost no planning. Following the planning activities in the
Ministry of Infrastructure under the Second Highway Project, the Government
has requested further IDA assistance, and a transport planning component would
be included under the Third Highway Project now being appraised. This is
particularly timely as extensive investments are now being proposed to reha-
bilitate various parts of the road system and to rehabilitate the public rail
line and upgrade services. Given the low traffic volumes, the economic wisdom
of such major capital spending on railways appears questionable, and coordina-
tion with other modal choices therefore vital. Development of air transport
as a viable alternative for long distance domestic passenger transport also
deserves study. But rehabilitation and better maintenance and operation of
existing transport infrastructure, as proposed under this project, offers
high, more immediate returns, and Government's interest in transport planning
and in introducing improvements justifies continued Bank Group involvement in
the sector.
Role of the Bank Group
27.      The Bank Group adheres to the Government's strategy of maintaining,
rehabilitating and upgrading the transport infrastructure needed to support
development of the productive sectors.  The proposed project would be the Bank
Group's first port project in Guinea. The Bank Group has previously assisted
the port sector indirectly through an Engineering Loan (Si-GUI) and two loans
(577-GUI and 766-GUI) for the Boke Bauxite Project which included construction
of a new port at Kamsar, and related rail transport and new town infrastruc-
ture. These projects were completed satisfactorily. The first and the still
ongoing Second Highway projects financed extensive high-priority road rehabi-
litation and maintenance programs, supporting basic sector strategy.
The Port of Conakry
28.      Located on the northern coast of Tombo Island, the Port of Conakry is
protected against swells by the Island of Kassa and two rubble mound island
breakwaters (Map IBRD 16681). Owing to the inadequately maintained condition
of beacons and buoys, night-time navigation in the dredged, 5 km long entry
channel is restricted. The Port's total surface area is about 38 ha. There
are two bulk handling facilities for exports, one for FRIGUIA (alumina) and
the other for OBEKA (bauxite), four general cargo berths (with about 3.6 ha of
covered storage), and facilities for fruit handling, small coastal vessels,
fishing vessels and work boats. Vessels of up to 40,000 dwt currently use the
Port. Bulk petroleum products are handled next to the bauxite berth, and a
clinker unloading and storage facility is under construction. Much of the
port infrastructure has deteriorated. Some quay facilities present potential
hazards that inhibit efficient operations. Cargo handling equipment is of
relatively recent vintage, but inadequate maintenance, compounded by rundown
workshops, and the generally poor operating conditions have substantially
shortened its useful life. Floating craft are in poor condition. Harbor tugs
are operating well beyond their useful lives and risk of total breakdown is
high.



- 9 -
29.      Port Operations.  The composite picture that emerges from analysis of
port traffic data and foreign trade statistics is that total traffic did not
change much during 1975-1980, and hovered around 3.0 million tons annually, of
which about 10% was general cargo. Year to year fluctuations were substantial
and bauxite exports declined. Containerizatibn is low but increasing rapidly.
Deteriorating facilities and equipment have resulted in high berth occupancy
for general cargo (80%), long ship turnaround times (seven days on average),
low productivity (less than 200/tons/day of general cargo unloaded), high pil-
ferage and poor security. Freight rates to CDnakry are consequently very much
higher than to neighboring West African ports and some conference lines have
practically abandoned servicing Conakry because of the high costs of ship
waiting and cargo losses.
30.      Port Organization.  Faced with deteriorating facilities and opera-
tions, the Government used GTZ and KfW financing in 1981 to prepare a project
feasibility study and a master plan for port development. It was proposed
that port activities be reorganized and the then existing fragmented responsi-
bility be replaced with a new Port Authority. Responsibilities for port oper-
ations were shared by four organizations. Tha Office Maritime was responsible
for beaconage and buoyage, harbor master services, maintenance of infrastruc-
ture and dredging. The Entreprise Nationale de Transit et de Transport (ENTRAT)
was responsible for stevedoring and general cargo transit operations. The
Societe Navale Guineenne (SNG) was responsible for tugboat operations, while
the Administration Generale handled general aiministrative functions. This
split responsibility was recognized as a major cause for the poor performance
of port activities. With encouragement of the Association and co-donors for
the proposed project, these activities were consolidated under a new Port
Authority of Conakry (Port Autonome de Conakry - PAC), which started func-
tioning on September 1, 1982. Its organizatiDnal structure and statutes meet
the objectives of financial and operational aatonomy and unambiguous authority
of its management team, which is satisfactory. As a public enterprise under
applicable Guinean legislation, PAC is governed by a twelve-person Board
(Conseil du Port), with the Minister of Transport as Chairman, and including
the general manager of PAC and representatives of major users and the port
workers' union. The Government has agreed to obtain the Association's agree-
ment before making any major changes in PAC's statutes or the composition of
its Board and PAC will maintain well qualified staff in key operating posi-
tions. (Section 5.01(c) of the draft Developnent Credit Agreement and Section
3.01 (a) of the draft Project Agreement).
31.      With a present total staff of the various port entities of about
1,550, PAC management has set a target staffing level of around 1,100, with
about half the currentlv employed stevedores and longshoremen on its permanent
payroll, allowing for about 10 permanent gangs between two shifts. As a two
shift operation is vital to raising productivity, PAC has agreed to put such a
scheme into effect no later than October 31, 1984 (Section 3.06 of draft
Project Agreement). Staff training needs would be addressed by consultants
and the technical assistance proposed under the project.
32.      Consultants helped PAC during project preparation to consolidate the
rudimentary accounting information of the prior organizations(para. 30), pre-
pare an opening balance sheet(para. 44), and institute improved accounting



- 10 -
practices and controls. In order to ensure adequate financial reporting for
the project, PAC with the help of consultants will introduce not later than
December 31 ,1983 appropriate accounting and control systems based on generally
accepted accounting principles and current practice in other ports (Section
3.07 of the draft Project Agreement).
33.      PAC's tariffs need substantial restructuring, since estimates of
costs by profit and cost centers indicate that most if not all of PAC's
services are underpriced and bear little relation to costs. The complete re-
evaluation of the fixed assets transferred to PAC from its predecessors at
June 30, 1982 was a first step in tariff revision. Consultants are now
reviewing PAC's tariff structure, at this stage to merely correct the most
glaring deficiencies and ensure that a reasonable progression to prudent
financial management can be started in 1983 (para. 46). PAC's statutory
authority to set tariffs was confirmed during negotiations and PAC has agreed
to set tariffs at appropriate levels established in agreemert with the
Association (para. 45) (Section 4.05 of draft Project Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin and Background
34.      Following Government's request to IDA for help in meeting urgent re-
pair and equipment needs for the Port of Conakry, an IDA identification mis-
sion visited Guinea in December 1979, recommending that Government prepare a
master plan and feasibility study for port development. With GTZ financing, a
medium term investment program was prepared during 1980 and 1981. This formed
the basis of the project, which was appraised in February 1982. The proposed
project comprises the medium-term investment plan for the Port: its concept
ensures that future development of the port could not be compromised nor
alternatives foreclosed by the proposed rehabilitation program. A Project
Preparation Facility Advance of US$600,000, approved in April 1982, financed
the PAC's physical inventory and asset valuation, complementary engineering
and studies, preparation of some bid documents and a review of port tariffs.
Negotiations were held in Washington in April, 1983 with a Guinean delegation
led by Commandant Siaka Toure, Minister of Transport. Staff Appraisal Report
No. 4160-GUI dated May 17, 1983 is being distributed separately to the Execu-
tive Directors.
Project Objectives and Description
35.      The proposed project would meet the most urgent investment needs of
the Port of Conakry. It would eliminate the constraints that make the Port a
bottleneck to Guinea's economic development through: (a) rehabilitation and
replacement of existing port infrastructure and equipment; and (b) strengthening
the newly established autonomous port authority. The proposed project con-
sists of: (i) rehabilitation and repair of general cargo transit sheds,
quays, aprons and underwater surfaces, repair of existing workshops, drainage
system, rail sidings and roads, buoys and beacons, and repair and construction



- 11 -
of a container storage area, other minor buildings and fencing, a new admini-
strative building and housing for expatriate technical assistance staff;
(ii) procurement of floating craft (two harbor tugs and boats), cargo handling
equipment and vehicles, workshop tools and machines,and computing and office
equipment, and repair of existing equipment; and (iii) technical assistance to
PAC: 264 man-months of consultant services tc assist PAC's senior technical
and managerial staff in port operations, as well as 165 man-months of medium
and short-term experts to assist in developing training programs, accounting
and financial systems, data processing, tariff and rate setting, inventory
control, evaluation of warehousing needs, cons.truction supervision and comple-
tion of port Master Plan studies.
Project Implementation
36.      PAC will be responsible for project execution with the assistance of
qualified engineering consultants acceptable t;o the Association. Project
implementation is expected to take about five years and should be completed by
the end of 1987.
37.      Some of the cargo handling equipment PAC will procure would be leased
to ENTRAT (para. 30) for its remaining transi. and city warehousing and sto-
rage function, under a leasing arrangement between PAC and ENTRAT which is
satisfactory to the Association. PAC has agreed that no other equipment would
leave the port compound (Section 3.02(b) of draft Project Agreement). PAC has
also contracted with Office Maritime to maintain at reimbursable cost buoys
and beacons repaired under the project. To increase the efficiency of port
operations, PAC would prepare and present for comment by the Association, not
later than June 30,1984, a plan of action for improving port security, and a
plan of action for resolving warehousing and 3torage constraints outside the
port, and has agreed to implement these plans on an agreed time schedule
(Section 3.05 of draft Project Agreement).
Project Cost
38.      The total estimated cost of the project is about US$38.0 million
equivalent, net of taxes and duties (from which the project would be exempt,)
and interest during construction, and including refinancing of the PPF advance
of US$600,000. The foreign exchange component is about US$35.7 million equi-
valent (94 percent). Technical assistance of 264 man-months is costed at
US$12,800 per man-month, including travel and all allowances, which reflects
actual experience in recruiting experts under previous projects in Guinea.
Consultant services for project supervision and studies (165 man-months) are
also estimated at US$12,800 per man-month. Estimates are calculated in
January 1983 prices, and reflect the consultants' preliminary evaluation of
tenders, which were opened prior to Credit negotiations (para. 40), and in-
clude price escalation and physical contingencies during construction. Given
the nature of rehabilitation works and difficulty in predicting the extent of
deterioration until part of the existing structures or equipment are dis-
mantled, a 20 percent physical contingency wE.s assumed for these works. For
new construction and equipment, physical contingencies were assumed at 10
percent. Annual price contingencies have been calculated for local costs at



- 12 -
10 percent and foreign costs at 8 percent for 1983, 7.5 percent for 1984, 7
percent for 1985, and 6 percent for 1986-1988.
39.      The proposed IDA Credit, GTZ Grant, KfW Grant and AfDB Loan would
finance the total foreign exchange cost of the project. The proposed TDA
Credit of SDR12.1 million (US$13.0 million equivalent) would finance PAC's
administrative building, floating craft, data processing materials, and con-
sultants, equivalent to 34 percent of project costs In view of the commercial
nature of the project, the proposed credit would be onlent by the Government
to PAC at an interest rate of 13 percent over 20 years including a four-year
grace period. This on-lending rate corresponds to other interest rates in
Guinea set by the Government for parapublic commercial enterprises. PAC would
bear the exchange risk.  The AfDB loan equivalent to US$14.0 million and the
KfW grant equivalent to US$6.0 million would be onlent to PAC over 20 years
including four years grace, the AfDB loan at 9.5 percent and the KfW grant at
11.5 percent. The US$2.7 million equivalent GTZ grant would be passed on by
the Government as a capital grant to PAC. The Government would also contri-
bute prior to effectiveness 75 million Sylis (US$3.3 million equivalent) to-
wards PAC's initial working capital.  A Financing Agreement between Government
and PAC satisfactory to the Association would incorporate these onlending and
working capital arrangements. Its execution would be condition for effective-
ness of the proposed IDA Credit.  Internal cash generation by PAC totalling
US$15.2 million equivalent would cover local costs and interest during con-
struction, and provide for necessary increases in working capital to ensure
satisfactory operations.
Procurement and Disbursement
40.      The financing package is based on parallel financing by the Associa-
tion and the other co-lenders. Agreement was reached at appraisal that, in
view of the difficulties of obtaining firm cost estimates until after bid
opening, procurement for the main civil works and equipment contracts would
follow Bank Guidelines for international competitive bidding. Other items
identified as suitable for financing by a particular co-lender, for example
PAC's full-time technical assistance, were not subject to the Association's
guidelines, but the Association was consulted where such items concern the
overall execution of the project. Contractors for civil works were prequali-
fied, and bids were opened before negotiations. Procurement of floating craft
was on the basis of performance specifications. Procurement of a computer
system will follow international competitive bidding under a single responsi-
bility contract, including hardware, software and training. Works would be
supervised by the same consultants who prepared the project.
41.      Disbursements would begin in late 1983 and are expected to be com-
pleted by June 30, 1988. The proceeds of the proposed Credit would be dis-
bursed against contracts as follows: 90 percent of the cost of civil works
(US$2.21 million); 100 percent of the cost of floating craft and data pro-
cessing equipment (US$5.21 million), and 90 percent for consultant and expert
services and training (US$2.6 million).  After refinancing the PPF advance of
US$600,000, US$2.38 million would remain unallocated.



- 13 -
Budget, Accounts and Audit
42.      Annual budgets would be prepared by PAC and sent to its Board for
approval at least three months before the end of the fiscal year. During the
project implementation period, PAC would send the draft budget for comment by
the Association. PAC would also employ independent auditors acceptable to the
Association to carry out annual financial audits (Sections 4.03 and 4.02(a)
of the draft Project Agreement). Under PAC Statutes, an Internal Auditing and
Control group would also be set up at the General Manager's level.
Financial Analysis
43.      There are no financial statements for the Port of Conakry, since
prior to 1982 port operations were performed 'Dy four separate organizations
(para. 30). Consolidated income accounts for the years 1977 through 1980 were
prepared by the consultant during project pre:aration. They indicate that
Port earnings declined from a net income in 1977 of 5 million Sylis to a 1980
loss of 26 million Sylis, principally because operating expenses were up by 69
percent but tariff revenues increased only 34 percent. To reach breakeven
operations in 1980 would have required a 16 percent increase in tariffs, and
based on cost increases since then, a similar percentage increase would have
been required to break even in 1982. At July 1, 1982, PAC's net fixed assets
totalled about 650 million Sylis (US$28 milliDn), with working capital of 10.5
million Sylis.  Since all assets were contributed by Government, PAC began
operations with no long-term debt.
44.      PAC's long-term financial objective is to become a self-supporting,
commercially-oriented public enterprise. Und3r its statutes, PAC's revenues
must cover operating and maintenance expenditures, interest charges on debt,
and yield a satisfactory return on net fixed assets employed. The financial
provisions of the proposed project support this objective. However, since the
60 percent real increase in tariffs to meet this target in 1983 is too large
to be achieved in one year, tariffs will be increased gradually over the
project period, coincident with the improvement in port operations brought
about by the project, and restructured to conform to the marginal cost of
services provided. To ensure that PAC is able to meet its financial require-
ments during project implementation, the Government and PAC have agreed to
take all measures, including tariff increases, to produce gross operating
revenues sufficient to cover in each year all cash operating costs, debt ser-
vice, and working capital requirements, and to finance the local cost compo-
nent of the project (Section 4.01 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Agreement was also reached that from 1987, PAC will continue to ensure that
its net operating revenue is positive, and in addition, will contribute at
least 40 percent of its investment costs from self-generated funds (Section
4.05 and Schedule 3 of draft Project Agreement). This results in rates of
return on revalued net fixed assets in use exceeding six percent beginning in
1987, reflecting the cash coverage target, and continues the positive operat-
ing position begun during project implementation.
45.      Following a July 1, 1983 tariff increase to result in a six percent
increase in PAC's 1983 operating revenues, PAC will increase tariff levels as
necessary on January 1 of each year to ensure a positive net operating income



- 14 -
position. In real terms, tariffs are projected to be 74 percent higher than
1982 levels by 1987. PAC would approve and publish the 1984 general tariff
revision and increase, acceptable to IDA, before December 15, 1983. It would
raise PAC's 1984 revenues by an estimated 30 percent. To ensure that the
asset base for tariff setting is appropriately maintained, PAC will carry out
physical revaluation of fixed assets at least once every five yea-s and index
fixed assets and depreciation allowances in the intervening years (Section
4.04 of draft Project Agreement).
46.      Beyond the project period, PAC cash generation is forecast to be suf-
ficient for debt service and local cost investment requirements. Four mea-
sures have been agreed to preserve PAC's financial liquidity. First, to en-
sure sound planning of future investments under the port Master Plan, to be
completed under the proposed project, any PAC investment expenditures over
US$1.0 million equivalent in the aggregate per year during the project period
would be subject to the Association's agreement (Section 3.09 of draft Project
Agreement). Second, to conserve sufficient PAC cash reserves for equipment
replacement and emergency repairs, PAC would not pay cash dividends to the
Government unless, after payment, PAC's cash and liquidity position remains at
least double its current liabilities, including the current portion of its
long-term debt (Section 4.07 of draft Project Agreement). Third, the Govern-
ment will not require PAC to pay depreciation allowances to the State (Section
4.04 of draft Development Credit Agreement). Finally, PAC should not incur
additional long- and medium-term debt if the maximum future debt service
arising from it would fall below 1.5 (Section 4.06 of draft Project Agree-
ment).
47.      Although PAC's overall cash position would remain satisfactory, the
detailed cash flow forecast shows that PAC's needs for foreign currency
sources (to finance equipment renewals, spare parts and insurance premiums)
are higher than its potential revenues in foreign exchange (coming mainly from
tariffs on liners).  The Government has agreed to permit PAC to obtain in a
timely manner any needs for foreign exchange not covered by its foreign ex-
change revenues, and not to require PAC to invest idle funds in non-liquid
securities or in any other manner immobilize such funds for periods longer
than 90 days (Section 4.03 of draft Development Credit Agreement). PAC would
also build up and maintain an external account with one sub-account to ensure
payment of insurance premiums and a second, of at least US$0.5 million, to
ensure payments to foreign suppliers (Sections 3.03 and 3.04 of draft Project
Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
48.      The project is expected to improve productivity as well as financial
and management performance of the Port, reduce cargo losses presently incurred
through pilferage and poor handling, and reduce substantially ocean freight
costs on the country's agricultural exports and general cargo imports. More
generally, it would facilitate increased production and economic development
of the country by providing sufficient, low-cost port capacity for the country's
foreign trade. An economic rate of return has been calculated for the pro-
posed project as a whole since project elements are complementary. On the
basis of its quantified benefits, the proposed project would yield an economic



- 15 -
rate of return of 36 percent, taking into ac3ount an assumed gradual accrual
of the benefits to Guinea. These include: reduced freight costs arising from
improved port conditions and productivity; reduced general cargo damage and
loss arising from improved cargo handling and security; and reduced financial
holding costs to goods as a result of reducel ship service and waiting times
and more rapid cargo handling and transit. If the full capital cost of the
two tugs to replace existing tugs that have already reached the end of their
economic life were added without counting any benefits from this investment,
the ERR would still be 30 percent. The sensitivity of the rate of return to
more pessimistic assumptions on key variables was tested and found to be
satisfactory, in the worst case - benefits lagged by two years - still
ft       exceeding 20 percent.  The high rates of retarn for the project reflect the
existing poor conditions in the Port and the basic rehabilitative nature of
the project. Benefits which have not been quantified include potential sav-
ings to bulk exports and imports from improved port operations in general and
improved transit and city warehousing operations from equipment to be pur-
chased under the project and leased to ENTRAr for its continuing transit and
transport operations.
49.      The major project risk arises from the difficulty of projecting
Guinea's economic development and traffic at the Port of Conakry. If the
country's economic performance improves, the Port of Conakry could see very
rapid traffic growth in the mid-1980's and beyond. On the other hand, it is
difficult to predict success in the changes :iow begun by the Government in
revitalizing the rural sector and encouraging export-oriented projects. In
light of these uncertainties, fairly conservative traffic growth assumptions
were used for estimating benefits for the economic evaluation. The financial
covenants, especially concerning tariffs (paras 44 to 47),would provide ade-
quate safeguard that PAC could meet its statutory objective of financial
autonomy and place it on a sound financial footing.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Revolutionary
People's Republic of Guinea and the Association, draft Project Agreement
between the Conakry Port Authority (PAC) and the Association, and the Recom-
mendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
51.      Special features of the draft Development Credit Agreement are re-
ferred to in the text and listed in Section [II of Annex III.  Special con-
ditions of Credit effectiveness are the signature of a financing agreement
between the Borrower and PAC, the payment by Government of 75 million Sylis
towards PAC's working capital, and cross-effectiveness with the AfDB, KfW and
GTZ agreements.
52.      I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association,



- 16 -
PART VI- RECOMMENDATION
53.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
I
Washington, D. C.
May 18, 1983
Attachments



-   17   -
Page I
TABLE 3A
GUINEA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GUINEA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV AGES
AERPA (THOUSAND Sq. Em.)                                                      - MOST RECENT EaTlM-E))
TOTAL           246.0
AGRICULTURAL     45.7                              MOST RECENT          LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb   1970 /b ESTDIAJTE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)               110.0      150.0    290.U                250.8                 1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAiMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)   63.7       90.7      82.S                66.5                  610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MlD-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 3067.0    4069.0   5425.('/c
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 9.9      13.9      19.1                17.8                   28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                   9.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                    28.5
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED             2130
r                             POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                     12.5       16.5      21.4                27.7                   54.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    69.7      89.0    115.4                 86.7                  129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       42.0       42.5      43.9                44.8                   46.0
15-64 YRS.                       55.1       54.7      53.2                52.3                  51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 2.8        2.8       2.9                 2.9                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            2.2        2.8       2.9/c               2.7                    2.8
URBAN                            8.1        6.2       6.1                 6.2                    5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.9      46.8      45.9                47.3                   47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    30.3      24.2      20.0                19.5                   15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.0        3.0       3.0                 3.2                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..        ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        97.0      101.0      83.0                88.7                   90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMNENTS)                91.8       86.4      78.39dk             90.2                  93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        45.8       42.2      39.61               53.1                  54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      8.1        6.6       7.drTi             18.4                  17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE       49.6       43.3      37.1                26.7                  23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   34.7      39.7      44.5                45.6                  51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                        207.8      186.5    165.3                129.9                 118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..         ..      10.0,'e             23.9
URBAN                             ..         ..      44.C,               54.9
RURAL                             ..         ..       2.5 _              18.5
ACCESS TO EICRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..       13.0        ..                25.8
URBAN                             ..       70.0        ..                63.1
RLL                               ..        2.0       ..                 20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN       26903.5    32519.4  16626.7,'d           32097.0               14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    3255.4    2031.5   2494.067             3264.6               2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                         1121.8      6L1.7/f  634.01S             1225.0                1036.4
URBAN                          205.3      216.97?   385.5A              249.5                430.8
RURAL                         2201.8      879.87?  728.9XS             1712.1                3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..       16.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             ..         ..
URBAN                             ..         ..
RURAL                             ..         ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOK
TOTAL                             ..         ..
URBAN                             ..         ..
RURAL                             ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             ..         ..       5.0
URBAN                             ..         ..
RURAL                             ..         ..



-  18  -
Page 2
TABLE 3A,
CUINEE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CUINA                          RElERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEYAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOMH
1960  lb    1970 /b ZSTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED EN.ROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 30.0        33.0       34.0                  63.2                    83.3
MALE                .44.0         45.0      45.0                  72.7                    96.1
FEMALE               16.0         21.0      24.0                  50.3                    80.4
SECONDAZY:   TOTAL                  2.0         13.0      15.0                  10.2                    15.3
MALE                  3.0         21.0      22.0                  13.2                    19.4
FEMALY                 0.4         5.0       8.0                   6.6                    11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY) 21.7           3.2        3.1                   7.9                     4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMAR.Y                           65.6        36.1       38.2                  47.4                    38.6
SECONDARY                          26.0        22.8       24.1                  26.2                    23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         7.0          9.0/h    20.0                  34.0                    35.6
CONSUHPTION
PASSE'GER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.8         2.4                              3.0                    31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         12.7        22.4       22.9                  34.8                    71.8
TV ECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                        .                              1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   0.2          1.2       3.8                   2.9                    19.1
CINEH  ANNUAL ATTENDLACE PER CAPITA                 ..        ..                   1.1                     0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1521.6      1939.6    2416.9
FMALE (PERCENT)                    40.4        40.3       39.7                  34.i                    36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              88.0        85.0       82.0                  78.4                    56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  6.0         8.0       11.0                   9.2                    17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL.                               49.6        47.7       44.6                  41.4                    37.0
MALE                                 59.4         57.4      54.2                  53.9                    46.9
FEMALE                               39.9        38.1       35.2                  29.1                    27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9          1.0       1.0                   1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE LNCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                   .
HSIGEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                  ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                   .         .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS      ...                                          .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                      ..          ..                      134.3                   507.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                  82.9                   200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      70.0                  96.4                   523.9
RURAL                                ..           .         ..                  60.4                   203.6
ESTIMATED PCPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 .           .         ..                  39.3
RURAL                                                                            90. 69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Host Recent Estiate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Recent Goverment estimates from Administration Census indicate a resident population (excluding non-
Guineans) of 4.53 mill. in 1977 and population growth race of 2.7Z p.s.; /d 1977; /e WHO report May,
1980 quotes total access 11-12U.  However, this does not match reported service in urban and rural
areaa; If Covernment hospitals only; /S 1976; /h 1965.
* Present Bank estimates indicate higher ratio of supply close to requirement.
Revised
March 1 -1983



PAR. I
WmITiSIn O? 8&fLAL lfICA7
Ssoac   kltksngh cb  data a.  dram  fetm  snrts. Nmsrly pJodd  hb. meat .shrtsiusd raLbl., it shoud also b  oared th   they ma                             burh  best-
astioalIy ct-p-b1o hbrac  of the lack of  -ta4-di-sd dafiatiat  sod  -o                 t.i oat ho ditffeen  conotie  ta -oitriog the date.  The dat  are .. e.
tbsissa.  -af i to desc ribe ordars ofs i s  isdiata treed., sod ch-acrrta  cartait -aJo, diffor-ocee betwen...                      tre
The relefoc  groups or  (ii th.  -ns  coaty grou p of the subject c-otey and (2) ... cutry grop with so-Ah-  high-r a-r.og  i-com  tita  the cootry poop
of the abjeer cou..try feocpt for   "Nigh Inom           Oil ixpoet-n' group shre  Middis incom   North Aft:- cod Middle Feat" isooas  hecoca  of atroogro
aocto-cu1lturolofirta)   l  the  -afre-c  groop dana thevrae  are population weighted arith,etic  means foe .-h indicatorno  shee  only  h..o
maoityo  the cutries itoagrop h.o data for th-t indicator.  Stn-  ohs cor.rge of contis                   1rn; the ticci-ra depends on thenilahiliry of dote
ond in tot aiform. c-oion mos be e                irisdt  rel.iegenr9       of one iodicntor toaoothcr.  Ties.  --erage  nra ocy usefo1 ic copring cte  suso
Ins indicucon ata -im  asg the cc-ty -Ao e-f-r..ce gro..ps.
AMEA (thcouaaod aqk.)                                                                             Muocio     Ka oeritoal Nd - cra.t       orho,  so .d rura  - Population  (total.
Total - Total Iorfoe arsa c-prisiog lai area and ilan.dwatsrs; 1979 dots.                        orhoc  ne  rsl  diidd by thoir o-Pottieeoshoe of hospital bodn
odiurel-Esnimet  of aocotraoea             d ctmponarily or pormnetly                    o-aiahie ic pobldic cd  rIocto1  genarot-cdlspn talteed hsio  codi-
for cror. patre,mrket md kitchen gordea or to Itie fallow; 1979 dons.                          htbilinutiotc-tsra.  H.epitalcorner  ibIontn  pt-manstny staffed
by Iat .o. Lt-  picyatino.  Etbcuitchetta pnondtog petocipaily com.o-
onp    AITA (iS))   " IP pe  ospite asnites at .u...n  IVte  Prim.ca-dlcre are to  inclogd.  Orc-l   sPurat.l.  fooeo-, inclods health
coood  y  um  corriuo method as geeld Bskbra   (1978480 basin); 190                                o    eis   etr   o   orastysoidb      hsos  (bot by a
1970. cod 1980 date.                                                                               edicut.. asistant. curse.    ideife.  ro.)  hich offer it-patiror .c.o.-
da tto  ad Pre-ide a Isited range of medical tacll,ite.  Po tsnrl
tOlf  tlOMTINPM  AIT     A c  coc-panict of-orieery(ca                                          ticot porposs arbor hospitals taclude WHO. yrscipal(gece_I hospitals,
tnicity) In kilognata  f ca        otuntat npiro; 1960, 1970 . cd 1979                           crtn . Speofalie   hosPita~lsrcj iocodod only code, to tal
dnru.                                                                                          Amain   e  gHerplal Ne S -                 b        dL.- Toa   ctto    ecls    too- lbre
from hospitals. divided by the coto of beds.
pOPNI,ATIOl AMP ff1A1 STAXf0Sr CS
!otai PopulAtion, Mi-ea  thcosads) - ho ofJuly 1; 1960, 1970, cod 1960                       ftgftIhf
das-r                                                                                        As-ras  Sias cf go-eehd (perso... roe bo-ashld)-tnloba,ndra-
Orba  Poutatoc  ynront  f  torn) - ratio ofurban to total rPolaItion;                     A h--oshold coaita ofagop  fldniut                     %ho sc  ltivig qosriers
ditftsre.a defiuliots, of cohe  ors    ay affect  -op-tbiliry of dra                           and thef  sol  meals.  A boarder orldger soy or may co .h looded i
sang.. cotries; 1960. 1970. and 1980 dor.                                                      the hcueho.:d fc-natnro   oysa
Ppstotoyes  200- Corrnt popolsrioc projeotloos am  b-sd cc 1980                        her of yerott  pe    ioo   o all -bho  r-d rua  occ-pindct ntoi
-tors  pepolaio  byaeofcocd their mamtlity oud fertility rates.                              dnsIlit0.g   epetvo         Oslug   cli   e-p--aoet icr-crore  sod
Projcicprmtr  for  or-ality rotor coaprise ofthre  le-n. oum-anocpind  artts.
l-sg      oy  tanyo  birth iocrt...iug stb cocotryc po  copits income                     duress to Pec'itricito (p-ro .. rd deeliogs) - coral,1 urban,  nd eura1 -
lenrl, aid femal  life tetcocY anbiliog. ti 77.5 yrrs   The parc-.oetoa-  dilloga arch ol-,   "icy to lining quoc-oona  perceotag
soo  - o  for1tuit  -ste slo hon  three I.-In  aonuicg drli-o 10                         of         -btu,    s, -od  urr)1 doe;I cgo retyctrionly.
rnilt I    ocodiog co Incom  leooi ad p-s  foully plo...iot peefo-rsooc
Ouch co_tr  to thee  -igr  ou  of these doe  -obi-otin- of me-tlity                     EDIEATICN
.sd fertility trncda for p-o3e_tl_ pu_p_c_I                                                Adjustrdtousnt is
Sct-iocay  polatloc - Ia  ttioaypopolotion thor  to no trocti  iuc-                            Prsr  oho  -ttt,ml ond f-1as   irons total. nub  an  female
th   It  rote in rqol %to ho death -tarn  and also the oge              r.uiuei-           orimnof all ogt- at thepimany inro  atpttr                       f rnnprttire
mat  curan   To  It ohile..d ouly ottr EcttllY tarot detli..ta no                               olry  -ch-ol-ogr yoaobv;otolyicuo                      hildco aged h-li
the replucosoct  oiof cin net -rroluc -o trn.I   A..a etch gertiao                             ye-rs hot udj-std for diffe.rr  leogrc of pivayeaoit  foe
ofIsa     eioe   tef en_tly .  The  rotnypopulorion tiewocotrion cithuinro   dcni                                                  1oro -mn  soy eu-ed 1100percent
coni-td eo2the basis of the projected ohe-ocristiot of tepyaboni-c  coepoaar o-wo  obo   the off icial school agt.
tthe.e_  000, ocd rho rote of d-ci-n of fertility core corpl.c-...ndr  tcboo  -toal  cle and foso1n - Computod us chor;  -ecodnry
_eo  lee.xoaie,oorso  Ito.. four yearn of ayp-cod prianry rsrcrn
f..ar . saioer  p vu-to  io -eochd - Tihe yeee eh- utoti-roy pouaicpr-ldet geur-l,  vccuo.,c teacher tiraicc    lctections foryailt
tier cull hetoted                                                                              oaliy ..f 12 to 17  nrs of am; ...rr.ipondoe..  cors                 ..r -e11oy
popolacina D._toiy                                                                                 eoc'lde
Prr no. in. - hd-year popolotio yet uq--r  kal--t  (100 hbtrt....) of                         (calolerlmn   perteor of...toodon) - Vccattonol ioctitutio..
coct   ue;  91  197  oc   99dr.ttuetchla,sootcl   r o-hr Peogrno which optrotn tndeprd-
Per at. km.Rar17Ocutoa I     ana- lospotel 00 ehev  for eoOclar    ad                          toy or a,dpr t f...c.ndoy icoti'tnico.
ecly: 1967. 19)1 and 1979 duto.                                                            Pcil-tech-  tony -risoy. and ..ecoad.ar-  cT-1  -cdect to .roiled It
yopuiacbeo Age Onroc..ur. (perceo.n) - Chtldre-  il-l4 yeoro). n-rco-oge fly-                    prlmery e-1ccndr       .lol  dIvided by ou.. era of t-cher  ic the
64yer)  and retired (65 pynes and u iu  p-rcoocgro of cd-yncr popa-                            coroodo   Iemit.
la-ioe; 1960. 1970,..ad 1900 dana.                                                           Adalt Ilt-e-L: rat  (per--e) - ltrat- dut  (able to readco   wrt)
peueno  Cct rte lporc-t) - turd1 - A-oua  growth ean f total mcd-                      osrnrtg    ftnlool  oooicoe   )yased ovr.
yea- oulto   for 191-60. 1960-70, -od 1970-80.
Populstoa Crouch toe_ eoc      -n -athot- Aoool arotot rae f orh- popa-                      COMIIDWTIOO
OsI.o-  for 1910-I  1977.ad 1970-40.                                                         Pso....r..ro(per ll.. ticod rplro) - Paoeg- caro  -opcal sna
Crue Mrt rae (erchoton)    boco  lIon bileic  yet thoonod of od-year                    cc   ntglethaeight Per..cs  e-1 ldoc osboln1                 t  here-n
pepoloriot; 1960. 1970, aed 1900 doa.                                                          sliOtryurrlc
Groo  ordcintt-rooecubco.sgtroacsowl   erI  d.                                                     icendrenv    Iaecticad in yeats  h-o r-giorrctiuo of cello
he   om    erdari-e perIod if ahe -cp-rce-ce  Prrc  ag-op-ecftc for                    ten  u   loffe-; dora for rec..    yernsy -  be  -opar-ble sinc
rutt  rotr   solyf.re-y..  .orgueding in 1960, 1970, sod 1980                                  cotc-triet obolisbed  _iooia.8
rall  Plsel   -Accptos, A...I ossos) - dooo   -b-r of -c-pror                          Tf Recrr-r  (per tlouo...d popolotic) - ftrvo rrflo  hr-od-aa  to
ofhehoo ld-olce  oodnr ...oPIcea of nonluou  family p-iag pe-gr-                     g9nrl  oilc  retbnoe  popolatieo; n-lodesooIcen..ed Tv oncerer
Pam Iy ;r- Plutoog - tuet  (pr-et of msrried   s         - -frcncg oIf marriod                   iecucreod t  er   hecr..                tato      f Tc nts eo  io effect.
smnothild-heo-c  san   5-44 years) ,ho use1htch-cuotnI  devices to                     Newpaper C-ruiato  pe hroaand. poyloloi~   h-Ihw   thtavera-gnir
P,bllrtt.-i   d-eord ptta       rtortrig   eorltes    tt  roslee
loes MDa  NUTRITION                                                                               to bs  idl        f at c   pynnr  no leas  tout tImes osen k.
loden of Tood  rdctuper Capitn (1969-71-100) - 1odet of per cpitaoos                            lrnAncltelneprtrt  per Cior-oond ontho oute  of
p-oduti-o of oh  toed  -cclitca.  ProductIon  -clades. seed   d feed a-d                       tIcket  a,ca dduringite o. toldn d n.isso.                 driv-in cino-
in 00  oledor yoar boatio.  C.-,dit,. io -cvr primuoy goods (e.g. aug-rco.                     aed ahil.c units.
Iv1tead of augurd) chith u- edible andcoti  ocrintlg, coffee oed
tea ore nlded.   Agugreat  p-udottuc of enhcutry ic boad an                             LABORt 00CE
noteI ceaepooeepteciha  1961-6,h 970  ad 1980 data.                                      TeloorForce (thousnds  - r.oeoocol  a,tirn  pe-u-o  tocldtsg
Per c tosplof coleioc(prco  ofttieet)-Caord feeoa.n   fun. .e ad usrpioynd hoc P",,nIlutia. "t'"'                                      ldiog huewrs   trden  ,  t.
eeg eqotr-Int of ar  food nppylion ovatliclr in ruetry yet ccpiro                         covring cepoletin of al  aeI             Ifiliona. to vuros c-usrios are
per doy.  Available opplies  -oprian domacic   -- ro      cino., isorts Inca                   _cwt      -bcaIr; 1960, 1970 und 1980 dcto.
enprt,  ndrhngn  n  tuk.No  appII_etld   an-a  feed, ceds,reol  (porc-o) - Ftcsat  ioho  foer-c pcerg    f total Ibhr  ore
qotiia  sd In fool praneiag, and I.oss.et  doitotttbotit   teqi-                            Agri-toir  (pec-t) - Lbohr fort. in fleriug. (or-ary, boating and
meoro cero oncsted by PIAloado  phyololgicol  -usd  for o.r-I con-                               finhiug an per-e-g  ef ttol labor fooct; 1960, 1970 and 1980_dot..
vlyanhsIch co.osiderJe                _toromnel  eposur body weights;,ago                    Inooctroc (percet-)        - abrfor. Ininig   uorcir   uoonr
and iodastribanico of pfplro,adotwo   0ptettoosecradee-etc.eatadg.o   ecnaec  tota  lbr fore
hoced Inot  910,1971 ad177 tdr.                                                               90 "O I.1970ad 1900 lu,te.
Pry o.Pit. copply of cooreio (oroan pet   v) -Proet  torrent ofpee  -cpita                     fn-ticipatg   tote  _prnr - _tote., sole, ad f-mei - Participotin or
on  supply of food Per PY.  .e  aupyl   ffood is deflird   saov,o-                             -tivity ruten ore oo. tnd uc ror1l  sale  ao  teel  labo  force ..
qairnmeuc  for al  ooncethihlby USDA pr-vio  for.a..o erceor  of toto1, nob  and froole pcyu.io-c of oil egos eycivly;
altoosocec ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~-d18 of0   rs   f tota  problt  pot day cod 20 grom. fuiu r  1900  190.od19   an   Then.. .. or dao  00 Ii.0'a paetictpotiono-tes
pole Pr-teo,  fl which 10 gros  ohoold he onioo  pru-et.  These atad-                          rrtnnl .....eetrnt.            nf the ppulaci-c  and bogK tla tred.  A
rds ore1 lvrthan those of 75 gro-  of trci pvtin ccd 13 arom    ffcnroae   r f                                    rom us Iotlcao
anlImal prteto an -nveea  foe the world,Propose  by PA  in the Thiod                         foooic tpdnr oto-trto of population ond- 15 cod 6i andos
Wrld Pond S-ty; 1961-65, 1970 un-17  dot..t  the tc-ro  robot for-r
Pot ccotto Pr,rnOc  porly from anima  sd polo.-I Proni  supply  f toed do-
trend fr_m  ail  and          pule   ogrm    e  day; 191-60, 1970 -od 1977 dora.          INCOME DISTRIBUTIONt
Child )agn  1-4) heth toi  fete tbhooad) - ocuol deotba per thout-d in                         Peranot   of Priroro lce-  iboth in_cosh ond kind) -   -i-eeod by efohent
cg Ieu   -   nr.t   hildren it this age group, for meat developtgceu-                     tpoce:, riches  70 pe--st, Poores  20 percent, and pooes  hI pnr.teo
frion dccc dertod fo life ruble.; 1960, 1970 and 1980 dat,                                    of h-oseoIds..
8NAO,IN                                                                                        PPOOIrY TARGTf GRnOUPS
LI!, tipcett~1YGat girth', (vor)    Argcou , of yeoro of life  -rouoiu                         The foliatc  es-imet- urn :cy op.promoi   metra  fpvrt    ot
oItre; 1 .1970 an  1960 dana.                                                                 and sh.ud hr intrpreted sth  coidorahin catio..
Itfant flor-atir  -tor  iee thou-sd) - An.-I dratha of Wnfn    ndot ou  ye-                    EstImatd kbaolutn Po'entr loum  leve  (1   pe  toP"              obcad  o
of age Par tho.nn.d live biethe; 1960, i970 sod 1980 doro.                                     Alainte povertytoe lre  ic tht income 1el holes chich a s.itta
Aces  no fon  Wtrriero  ofeooatu) - rural. oran  aodeoal-  u                                 outr icioclly udeq-r  diet plu .. stril. ne-oo t          eq1i-fmeaIc it eo
her of pinp1.lina.ahc   n   ua)ct   est ,cca.                        0  cf                     afrdable
estr  su.pply(nldstreaedouface eaters or co-ro-d hut ocritd                                  enird   ltesP-orrty Oem  inve  (11   arcpia  - urbos au -rro1
ait.sonh as that fret prurto  b-ohele, springe. osd sanitary taell) an                        Raoiou1 reePoverty inCom   n            tue-hird of                   -Prae  .  cito
pseataes  f  beirsasrrve poplonius   itu rbanae   publin                                Pe-s.-o  incm   of the  u-ry.  groan leve  is derived fro  eh. r-rol
fao-nf  or stadpot Ioceted ant soetha  200 soaafrom  a h.u.- may be                            level moth odjoatme   for high-e n-t cf liningt   rooes
coisdr.. d as httg  "tbit reaonbl  accssf  tho  hocus.  In rural aneas                       itisotsd PpourenNoa  Ad.Iceo    eecy0 mte   (retreatZ-                   - orhae
re-nbla so-a  -oId iwop chatthe hoswfe er meters af rho household                              end r-1t   Percer of pepltoistio  feehbn  -srrl) sAte see cubselt
do  n  hv  to upend a diaptopertie.ne. Pse  of the day  is fetchiug the
fsmly' astseomd
perc...agss of eheir tepserfe  popaj.L-so         Uarot dlspoas  soy L-I:.d
rho ea11mtoan ed diop-sa. sath or  ithout tesnmt, of ha   amnesi
e     = v50-atrby -traubt-hem   aysi  er the use of pOt prlriee and age-
Peol -ostotPhesauac     Ppoor    dllde"  by s-b- of prcrising physi-                                                            ceeLo and oncla1 Dnes DteOsl
Pia  qstia =m      alulaho                  La  ei-onatty ravel.                                                               Eco-nma  Aulymis sad  rosn mbeparteat
Peeleos a  anaga _mra  -  opaistl- divddd by soots  of p-teIsLos                                                                               ffy 1982
aim  and fsaim  ara&aa t usaa,  amitant arm.' pemekei  awm   a
sorsisg aslsi



20
GUINEA:   PRESIDENTS' REPORT ANNEX 1
ANNEX I
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981 11                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (X,constant prices)
US$ WIn.       S                 1973-77  1977-81  1973-81        1981  1981-85 Projected 1/
GNP at Market Prices                1536   100.00                  4.59     -0.22       2.16     -0.57       2.00
Gross Domestic Investment            235      15.32               -6.55       7.09      0.04     -9.10       5.00
Gross National Savings 2/            160     10.39                -3.44       0.01     -1.70    -34.17
Current Account Balance              -76     -4.93                21.25    -39.77      -4.92  -461.81
Exports of Good.,NFS                 490      31.92               30.41       2.35     15.53     -8.06       1.00
Imports of Goods,NPS                -434   -28.28                 20.03       3.46     11.44     2367 .        .
OUTPUT,LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY,1981
Value added                     Labor force                   VA per worker
US $ ln          S            thousands         S                Us $          S
Agriculture                                     709    42.13                  2022     82.00                  351     51.85
Industry and Mining                             367     21.81                  271     10.99                 1343   198.38
Services                                        607     36.07                  173      7.02                 3445   508.86
Total/average                                  1683   100.00                  2466   100.00                   677   100.00
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Covernment 3/
Billioa  Sylis                                           I of GDP
1978      1979      1980       1981                1978       1979      1980       1981
Current Receipts                    9.60       9.97     11.09     12.32                31.84     33.02      34.54     34.95
Current Expenditure                 6.64       6.63      7.74       7.21               22.49      21.96     24.11     20.45
Current Surplus                     2.76       3.34      3.35      5.11                 9.35     11.06      10.43     14.50
Capital Expenditure 4/              2.12       8.30      3.77      5.96                 7.18     27.49      11.74     16.91
External Assistance (net)5/         1.35       1.15      0.97      1.80                 4.58       3.82      3.01      5.12
Central Governuent
Billion Sylis                                            S of GDP
1978      1979      1980       1981                1978       1979      1980       1981
Current Receipts                    9.10       9.73     10.44     11.52                30.83     32.22      32.52     32.68
Current Expenditure                 6.45       6.44      7.19       7.04               21.85      21.33     22.39     19.97
Current Surplus                     2.65       3.29      3.25      4.48                 8.98      10.90     10.12     12.71
Capital Expenditure 4/              1.99       8.20      3.70      5.73                 6.74      27.16     11.52     16.25
External Assistance (nat)51          1.35      1.15      0.97       1.80                4.58       3.82      3.01       5.12
MONEY,CR2DIT AND PRICES
Billion Sylie
Dec.1976 Dec.1979 Dec.1980 Dec.1981
Koney & quasi-money                            8.95      8.90     12.97      17.17
Bank Credit to Public Sector                  11.58      8.61     18.50      22.74
Sonk Credit to Private Sector                  0.70      0.76       1.21      1.02
Porcest tes
1978      1979      1980       1881
Money & quasi-uoney as 2 of CDP               30.32     29.47     40.30    68.71
General Price index (1981-100) 6/             83.70     85.50     91.90   100.00
Annual S Ch*ages in%
Bank Credit to Public *oetor               -6.10    -25.60    114.00    22.90
Boek Credit to Privete leator              -1.20       7.30    60.30   -16.00



21
ANUEX I
Page 5
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S gEPUBL:CC OF GUINEA
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAIL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS 7/                                                                     MERCHANDISE lXPORTS (Average 1979-81)
1978      1979      1980      1981                                             US $ Uln         S
(US $ Million)                           Bauxite                         307.7      68.4
Exports of Goods,NPS                           328       364       497        490             Alumina                         128.3       28.5
Imports of Goods,NPS                          -314      -362      -394      -435              Diamonds                           1.7        .4
Resource Gap (deficit--)                        14          2      103         55              Agricultural Comsodities         12.3       2.7
Total                          450.1    100.0
Interest Payments                              -43        46       -51       -53
Workers' Remittances                            -6        -7        -8         _9          EXTERNAL DEBT,Deceaber 31,1981
Other Factor Payments (net)                    -33       -38       -74        -85                                                    Us $ *Im
Net Transfers                                   33         9         17        16          Public & Private Debt Guaranteed
(Balance on Current Account                      -37       -81       -13       -76              Including Undisbursed                    1620.9
outstanding & Disbursed                 1255.4
Direct Foreign Investment                        6        28        34         36
Net MLT Borrowing                                                                          DEBT SERVICE RATIOS FOR 1981
Disburements ,Public Borrowing               112       126       120       139                                                            E
Amortization,Public Borrowing                -93      -109      -108      -109           Scheduled Service Payments
Subtotal,Public Borrowing                     19        17        12        30              Public & Private Debt Guaranteed           28.0
Private Sector(net)                          -26       -29       -31       -28              Private Debt Non Guaranteed                10.3
Total Borrowing                               -7       -12       -19          2             Total Debt Outstanding &Disbursed          38.3
Capital Grants 8/
Other Capital(net)                               4         3          5        10          Actual Service Payments
Other Items n.i.e.                             -19        34       -45       -42              Public & Private Debt Guaranteed            16.9
Increase in Reserves 9/                        -53       -28       -38       -70              Private Debt Non Guaranteed                10.3
Total Debt Outstanding &Disbursed          27.2
Gross Reservea(end year)                        59        66        99         91
Met Reserves(end year) 9/                     -177      -208      -239      -286           IBRD/IDA LENDING (September 30,1982)
US *  ln
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                                    IERD      IDA
Imports                                                           99       110           Outstanding & Disbursed             50.6      53.6
of which: Petroleum                                             99       110          Undisbursed                           0.0      76.3
Exports                                        0         0         0         0           Outstsdin g Including
Undisbursed               50.6    129.9
RATES OF EXCHANGE 10/
1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981       1982
Sylis/US                      20 .33    21.38    21.14    19. 72    19.11    18. 97    20. 93    22.36
1/ Preliminary estimates
2/ Defined as GDI plus Current Account Balance
3/ Local administration not included
4/ Including capital transfers to,and investment on behalf of,state enterprises
5/ Disburaments less scheduled amortization plus increase in arrears
6/ GDP implicit deflator
7/ Totals may not add due to rounding
8/ Included in net transfers
9/ Discrepancies due to different exchange rates
10/ Period geometric average.
March 1,1983
f



- 22 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1983)
Credit                                                  Amount (less Cancellations)
Number     Year       Borrower       Purpose             Bank     IDA  Undisbursed
(US$ million)-------
Two loans and two Credits have been fully disbursed   73.5        21.0
849-GUI    1979       Guinea    First Education                    8.0       1.0
870-GUI    1979       Guinea    First Water Supply                 12.5      5.9
and Sanitation
952-GUI    1980       Guinea    Rice Development                  10.4       6.2
953-GUI    1980       Guinea    Second Highway                    13.0       2.5
1063-GUI   1981       Guinea    Livestock                         17.5      16.3
Development
1085-GUI   1981       Guinea    Power Project                     28.5      19.0
1234-GUI   1982       Guinea    Industrial Rehabi-                19.0      19.0
litation and
Promotion
1341-GUI   1983       Guinea    Second Educationl/                11.0      11.0
Total                                        73.5    140.9      80.9
of which has been repaid                   24.6       0.0
Total now outstanding                        48.9    140.9
Total now held by Bank and IDA 2/            48.9    140.9
Total undisbursed                              -       80.9     80.9
1/   Approved March 29, 1983, but not yet signed
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments



- 23 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 2
B.  Statement of IFC Investments (as of April 31, 1983)
Amount (US$ Million)
Fiscal Year         Obligor                   Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
)  Societ'e Mixte,
Aredor Guinee, S.A.         Diamond Mining       13.9             (
1983      )                                                                          (15.3
)     Aredor Holdings                  "_"_ 1.4
(                     Total Gross Commitments                            13.9   1.4        15.3
Less Cancellations,
Terminations, Repayments
and Sales                                        _       _        _
Total Commitments now held
by IFC                                           13.9   1.4        15.3
Undisbursed Balance                                13.9   0.0       15.3



- 24 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 3
C.  Projects in Execution (as of March 31, 1983) 1/
CR. 849-GUI         First Education Project;  US$8.0 million Credit of
September 28, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project aims at (i) helping alleviate the country's shortage of
skilled workers by improving and expanding vocational training programs, and
(ii) strengthening the Government's educational planning and project implemen-
tation capacity. Civil works and equipment installations are completed, and
training courses for skilled workers and technical instructors started in
December 1980.  Eighteen Guinean technical instructors have been successfully
trained in Europe. For the educational planning component, the nationals have
been trained in France with UNESCO financing and two additional Bank-financed
fellowships started in October 1982. The draft of the countryside manpower
study prepared by a UNESCO team has been completed and the final document is
expected by June 1983 as well as the evaluation study of the Vocational
Teacher Training Institute (ISFORPET). The Government remains strongly
committed to the project, and project management is satisfactory. The project
is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.
Cr.870-GUI          First Water Supply and Sanitation Project; US$12.5
million Credit of January 12, 1979; Effectiveness Date:
April 13, 1979; Closing Date: March 30, 1984.
Implementation of the physical works which had been delayed by about
15 months is now progressing reasonably well, and most contracts should be
completed by end-1983 or early 1984. Due to cost overruns, some components
may have to be deleted (reservoir) or reduced (distribution network), but this
will not reduce the overall benefits of the project. Yield from groundwater
resources has been lower than expected and new sources will have to be
developed sooner than anticipated. The management team of the water entity,
DEG, is making headway, albeit slowly, in structuring and monitoring DEG
operations, and the technical assistance team, though not fully integrated,
has helped bring about significant staff attitude changes within DEG and
technical improvements in operations. The Government is seeking ways to
improve overall efficiency and obtain financial viability in water operations,
and has asked the Bank to use uncommitted funds for an institutional study
presenting managerial and structural alternatives.  The preparation of tech-
nical studies for water systems in regional centers with UNCDF assistance is
now underway.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and, in particular, to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



ANNEX 2
- 25 -                       Page 4
Cr. 952-GUI        Rice Development Project, US$10.4 million Credit of
November 2, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 14, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1935.
The project consists of creating a specialized planning and coordi-
nation unit for rice development within the Ministry of Agriculture, upgrading
the country's rice research capacity, undertaking a study of agricultural
prices and rural incentives, and carrying out a pilot project to test and
develop technical improvements to rice cultivation practices by smallholder
farmers. The project's technical assistance team and the producer incentives
study team initiated work in mid-1980. Most of the project's equipment was
delivered by the second half of 1981. During 1981 a limited field program was
carried out under the pilot project and the research stations. A larger
program was carried out for the 1982 season. The final report of the producer
incentives study was submitted in March 1982 and discussed with the Government
in April 1982. The final version of this resort was received in February
1983. The construction program was seriously delayed in 1981 by the financial
difficulties of the enterprise concerned. A new contract has been signed and
interim facilities have been established. Mid-term project progress is
cfonsidered satisfactory.  The preparation study for phase II of the project
has begun under a consultant contract signed in February 1983.
(Cr. 953-GUI       Second Highway Project; US$13 million Credit of November 2,
1979, Effectiveness Date: January 29, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of a program of road rehabilitation and mainte-
nance with further institutional support to the Ministry of Public Works,
renovation of the National Soils Laboratory, and pre-investment studies on the
Conakry-Mamou Road. The first year was used to complete the program begun
under the First Project, and the second year to start rehabilitation of an
additional 1,500 km of priority gravel roads. Due to misuse of project equip-
ment and funds, force account brigades' output was unsatisfactory until a
Ministerial re-shuffle in March 1982. A new work program was set up to
maximize physical outputs with the remaining funds, and the Government agreed
to give new responsabilities to the consultant. The new work program is being
satisfactorily implemented, and project completion is expected in December
1983.
Cr. 1063-GUI       Livestock Development Prcject:  SDR 13.3 million (US$17.5
million equivalent) Credit of November 21, 1980:
Effectiveness Date:  July 31, 1981; Closing Date:  June 30,
1985.
The project's objective is to increase the productivity of the
Guinean cattle herd, thereby augmenting national meat and milk production,
improving nutrition, and raising the standard of living of cattle-herding
families. The project consists of a nationwide vaccination program, provision
of drugs, medicines and mineral licks, prov:sion of credit to increase avail-
ability of draft traction, and upgrading of the livestock husbandry and
veterinary support service. The project is currently not proceeding as
anticipated due to the following problems: i) official cattle marketing



- 26 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 5
(despite agreement to abolish the official cattle marketing system, the
Government continues to confiscate cattle from herdsmen at unrealistically low
prices); ii) local funds (although counterpart funding is usually not a
problem in Guinea, the Government has paid only Sylis 7 million into the
Project Account while the budget calls for Sylis 35 million); and iii)
administration (procedures to withdraw operating funds from the Project
Account are cumbersome and slow, jeopardizing project operations). The
Association has suspended disbursements with the exception of the Kindia
Laboratory and has informed the Government that unless it suspends all
inappropriate public interventions in the cattle and meat trade, the project
will be cancelled.
Cr. 1085-GUI        First Power Project; SDR 22.1 million (US$28.5 million
equivalent) Credit of February 10, 1981; Effectiveness
Date: May 12, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project is intended to rehabilitate and reinforce the distri-
bution system for the city of Conakry, construct a training center, housing
units and operating facilities for implementation of a training program, and
strengthen the Societe National d'Electricite (SNE) through consulting
services and technical assistance programs. Most contracts for works and
procurement of supplies have been signed, and the technical assistance team
has been recruited. Negotiations are underway to recruit consultants for an
organizational study of the power sector aimed at strengthening SNE.
Cr. 1234-GUI        Industrial Rehabilitation and Promotion Project; SDR 16.6
million (US$19.0 million equivalent) Credit of June 24,
1982; Effective Date: -March 23, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31 , 1988.
The project aims at: i) creating a capability within the Government
for formulation and planning of industrial sector policy; ii) supporting new
policy of shifting some of the responsibility for national production, import
substitution and employment creation from the public to the private sector;
and iii) improving the performance of four selected public enterprises. The
project will finance consultants for the Guinean Government, promotion of
private sector enterprises through a line of credit and technical assistance,
and training to Credit National pour le Commerce, l'Industrie et 1'Habitat (to
enable it to act as the local financial intermediary), and feasibility
studies, external auditing and complete rehabilitation of four state-owned
enterprises. Project implementation is satisfactory in its early stages.



-27 -                                ANNEX 3
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
I.  Project Identified:                            December 1979
II.  Project Appraisal:                              February 1982
III.  Project Preparation Facility Advance:           April 1982
IV.  Negotiations Completed:                         April 1983
V.  Planned Date of Credit Effectiveness:           October 1983
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
PPF advance of $600,000 to prepare some tender documents and complete
studies necessary for rapid project startup.
Section III: Special Conditions
A. Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)  The Borrower and PAC sign a Financing Agreement incorporating
the working capital and external financing arrangements
(para. 39);
(b)  the Borrower shall have paid in 75 million Sylis to PAC's
working capital (para. 39);
(c)  The AfDB Loan Agreement, KfW Grant Agreement and GTZ Grant
Agreement with the Borrower shaLl have become effective.
B.  Other Conditions
(a)  PAC and the Borrower shall take all necessary steps, including
tariff increases effective January 1 each year, to ensure that
during the construction period (i.e. before 1987) PAC's
operating revenues cover its operating costs, debt service,
working capital requirements and the project's local cost
(para. 44);
(b)  By December 15, 1983 PAC shall have approved and published a
tariff revision and increase, effective January 1, 1984, to
raise PAC's operating revenues by 30 percent in 1984 (para. 45);
(c)  Beginning in 1987, PAC and the Borrower shall take all necessary
steps, including tariff increases, to continue to ensure that
PAC's operating income is positive, and that PAC contributes at
least 40 percent of its investment costs from self-generated
funds (para. 44);



- 28 -                               ANNEX 3
Page 2
(d) PAC shall build up and maintain an external account with two
sub-accounts, one for payment of insurance premiums and the
other, of at least US$0.5 million, for foreign supplier payments
and other renewal and repair expenses (para. 47);
(e) PAC shall seek the Association's agreement before undertaking
capital expenditure, not included in the project, equivalent in
the aggregate to more than US$1 million in any year or before
undertaking or authorizing any significant deviations from its
Master Plan (para. 46);
(f) PAC shall submit its annual operating budgets for review and
comment by the Association no later than three months before its
fiscal year begins (para. 42);
(g) PAC shall prepare by June 30, 1984 and submit for the
Association's comment a plan of action for improving port
security, and a plan of action for resolving warehousing and
storage constraints outside the Port, and shall implement these
plans according to an agreed schedule (para. 37); and
(h) PAC will begin two-shift operation no later than October 31,
1984 (para. 31).



IBRD 16680
MAURITANIA                                                            12-                                                                                         SEPTEMBER 1982
r S \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S E N  E G A L ' 
SENEGAL f     NIGER                                                                                                                             M      A      L
b,51S^Et   "1ut<>   VOGTA  _ Nl!,lL   .   <                     y.    ,    , __A                                                                 A      L     I
8~~SSBS fGLINEA  ~~~~~~oo,o ~~~~ L
NS;RA   GUINEA     OR                                                     o1Q  
C OAST  gGHANA  -12          '          .f,
GUINEA-                                                                                                  '                       _ I
AU                                                                                                                                           9-U
F. .                                                                                                                                 J%!(-   c         
Rok                    Ie, '   /Ln,oiaF4tnlo   >\ 
B.ff.
,,to PROJEC~~~~~T LOAiN /d/u1t 10.;          -                                                                                                  \/        -J I,  0 
RASLWAYS  I CHfM/N RDE  A F,.
GUINEA                                ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 25   55  75  IC)
CONAKRY PORT PROJECtKIOETR
-  TRANSPORTATION    SYSTEM
PO RETINAL CAPITALS  / C-k-/AGE 0EG/t                                                                                                      ,
R NAIGNA CAPITALS / CEF/TLIEU D'ETEATION
--INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES IFRONT/ERES DETAT
14'                                                                                                                                            8'-






IBRD 16681
13' 45                                                                               Y9 33           _                                   -.
G    U  I N  E  A                                                         Anartolo lo'2S'
4                                                                                                                                  do499~~~~~~~~~~~~P   
CONAKRY PORT  PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3 :II
LOCATION   PLAN                                                .,                                                                                                                                                                                             \, ,;, '
4;                                                                                                            : , > \ , ; . Qf; Q Hun.|/' Lnsr POrnt , P  n ''I
*     Beocon9                                                  ,eac                                                                                                         0 rard co nstTCt
Bouys                                                                                                                            S
--t-t    Railroads                                              Kassa                                                          .
Isobaths In  melersIsa d,                                                                                                       fi      6     l    ,    ;         _                                                amaVenne                      enInsU  a
n meers                         ~Island
a.                                                                                                   Camayenne                      Pe'  I       s lo
international boundary                                                                                                    -n,                                                                                   ,o
8, bTombo
Island                                       Gl-~a-
hfE: P21nt                                        isi!aFld               ;7/             _  ,       ;   _ SENE9AI               i             t k ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MALI
:. \   \   N   'r  !  /    Gl NEA-BISSLP                        v            )
MFTF[t 83I
,\1 E  A
f-.                                                  'r''                                                                                            '                                                           .                                                         ,
f: WOr/d dankEs Sfaff vr/t / r ,                                                           +                                                                                            1 SI ER R a LEON E t- L
fbf--,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~5~--
C The ,tmnton,ooo  hoed d,oel,drdthe                                                                                                                                    ~
Wormd -anes shown oh,'oc-.9 If                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LIB .I -L
ho re zpl.or n toahl9e pat tacried                                                   .,                                                                                             , t,88   LEN   4                                                                                                               3 
ret d- nt,ny    td dod tOt t. 3ft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RIA -O
anh tritony    -h b-,ndolen,ent                                                                                                                                                                                                                on    .-
oraccoptoor:o/ suh htthnndorioo 






< S|  '                      4       4  t ' 2~~~~K' 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
w 
z0 
I2 ''='  '
n-o-                     0 1H :   tj, 
j  X  -     06  06           , -    0 
X~~a a Xf<1     Z a ON -           .        .,
C 0eX:g,,  .
f~~            ~ i '  'f,'^  
:0    :            S   F, 
z~~~.



