CIRCUIATtNG COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1693-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
FOURTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
October 28, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



FOURTH IMPORT PROGRAM CREDIT: BANGLADESH
CURRkICY EQUIVALENTS/1
(as of October 28, 1975)
Currency Unit:  Taka (Tk)
US$1.00        = Tk 13
Tk 1           = US$0.76
Tk 1 million   = US$76,000
US$ 1 million = Tk 13,000,000
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED
BJIC     Bangladesh Jute Industries Corporation
BTIC  =  Bangladesh Textiles Industries Corporation
BSIC     Bangladesh Small Industries Corporation
TCB      Trading Corporation of Bangladesh
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
/   On May 17, 1975 the Government devalued the Taka
from Tk 18.967 to Tk 30 per Pound Sterling. The
Pound now floats relative to the US Dollar and
as a consequence, the Taka-US Dollar rate is
subject to change. The exchange rate used in
preparing the data for the report is Tk 13=US$l.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
FOURTH IMPORTS PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent of US$100
million during 1975/76, on standard IDA terms, to help finance the foreign
exchange costs of an imports program which would increase industrial product-
ion through better utilization of existing capacity.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Bangladesh, entitled "Bangladesh:    Devel-
opment in a Rural Economy" (Report No. 455b-BD dated September 15, 1974) was
distributed to the Executive Directors. A memorandum on the then current
situation was prepared for the first Aid Group meeting, held in Paris on
October 24 and 25, 1974. An economic mission was in the field during
January and February 1975, to assess progress since the Basic Report was
written. The mission's report, entitled "Bangladesh: The Current Economic
Situation and Short-Term Outlook" (Report No. 710a-BD, dated May 2, 1975),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 5, 1975.
3.        On August 15 a military coup ousted the Government of President
Mujibur Rahman. The new President, Khondaker Mushtaque Ahmed, formerly
Minister of Commerce and Foreign Trade, has appointed a new Cabinet of ten
Ministers and eleven State Ministers most of whom served in the same posts
in the previous Government. The new Government announced that the armed
forces had rescued the country from "corruption, nepotism and political
intrigue which threatened to overwhelm it" and has confirmed its intention
to adhere to the reform program begun with devaluation in May, and to the
Standby Agreement with IMF.   More specifically the new Government has confirmed
that it intends to introduce further economic reforms in the areas of
subsidy reduction, agricultural taxation, and import liberalization.    What-
ever the longer-term objectives and orientation of the new Government prove
to be, the fundamental problems it faces are the same as those of the
previous Government, namely over-population, weak administration, inadequate
infrastructure and insufficient resources.
4.        Economic progress since independence has been slow and inadequate
to the country's needs. Agricultural output is insufficient to meet the
requirements of a population growing at 3% a year. Industrial output,
heavily dependent upon imported inputs, has been badly affected by the
scarcity of foreign exchange. State enterprises are often handicapped by
management deficiencies, excessive government controls, shortage of key
spares and material inputs and lack of autonomy in determining prices.
Exports have been stagnant and barely finance a quarter of import needs
while the external sector has suffered from severe import controls and
inappropriate pricing of foreign exchange. Government revenue has been



- 2 -
insufficient to meet the current and development expenditure needs. Hence
external assistance has been relied upon heavily to bridge the gap between
national output and expenditure.
5.        With the attention of policy-makers focused on the immediate
short-term needs, especially on ensuring adequate food supply, many fun-
damental policy decisions concerning such issues as pricing of external
resources and capital and the widespread subsidies were not taken. Drought
and other natural factors also undermined the recovery efforts, bringing
1972/73 per capita GDP to about 80% of the 1969/1970 level. Substantial
increases in production during 1973/74 brought GDP to about 95% of the
1969/1970 level. Unfortunately, the momentum was not sustained in 1974/1975.
Severe flooding damagecl standing crops and reduced rice output. In addition,
the foreign exchange crisis that developed around mid-1974 slowed down the
flow of imports and industrial recovery. Despite anticipated growth in the
construction and service sectors, output in 1974/1975 is expected to be only
2% higher than in the previous year. Given a 3% increase in population,
this implies a decline of 1% in per capita income.
6.        Even a healthy, well-managed economy would have been badly hurt
by the adverse shifts in the terms of trade which Bangladesh experienced
especially from 1973 onward. For Bangladesh the impact has been severe:
in 1973/1974 the average prices of Bangladesh's imports rose by some 56%
while the average price of exports rose by about 7% and export volumes did
not reach projected levels, so that the gap between foreign exchange ex-
penditures and receipts widened greatly. The average cost of imports
increased by a further 23% in 1974/75 while average export prices rose
by 21%. However export volumes, especially of jute and jute goods declined,
offsetting the export price effect.    Bangladesh's problems are also com-
pounded by the fact that it is dependent on annual food imports of 1-2 mil-
lion tons, even in years of favorable weather. Its industrial sector relies
heavily on imported raw materials and spares. Such inputs have been in short
supply because of the relatively low priority assigned to them in the allo-
cation of foreign exchange.
7.        The annual rate of inflation in Bangladesh has been estimated at
about 80% in 1974. The high level of monetary expansion, combined with
severe shortages of consumer goods, especially food, insufficient raw
materials and spares for industrial operations, have been some of the
causes of rapid inflation. There have been other factors too: the
severe import controls and erratic supplies which have existed for some
time, have created uncertainties and led to hoarding. Middlemen and
traders who have been the fortunate beneficiaries of import licenses,
have taken advantage of an unsatisfied domestic demand to reap scarcity
premia, by pricing goods at sharply increased levels. In the face of the
deteriorating situation particularly regarding the balance of payments,
the Government in May 1975 indicated its intention to introduce a series
of economic reforms and, as a first step, it adjusted the exchange rate
from Tk 18.9 = E 1 to Tk 30 =   h 1.



-3-
Agricultural Production
8.        The gravest problem confronting the Government has been the food
shortage. Production of foodgrain has not yet returned to the level attained
in 1969/70. Drought, the war of independence, cyclones and floods have all
held down production. Only 1973/74 was free of such problems and production
almost equaled the 1969/70 record. The devastating floods of 1974/75 destroyed
1.2 million tons of foodgrains and cut production to 300,000 tons less than
in 1973/74. The Government launched a Special Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program to expand output of winter crops to moderate the effects of the
floods, but it was largely unsuccessful due to a failure to procure seeds
in time. While weather and natural calamities can be blamed for some of
the poor performance in crop production, fertilizer shortages, lack of ex-
pansion of high yielding variety (HYV) acreage and failure to meet irriga-
tion targets have been root causes. HYV acreage in 1974/75, for example,
has fallen from the 1973/74 figure of 2.0 million acres to 1.2 million acres.
A recent HYV task force has found considerable overestimation of HYV acreage
and it may actually be as low as 500,000.
9.        Because production has fallen short of the Five-Year Plan targets
in both 1973/74 and 1974/75, a total of over 4 million tons of foodgrain has
had to be imported, compared to a projection of a little over 3 million tons
for the entire period of the Five Year Plan. In 1975/76, estimated imports
of 1.5 million tons will be required even if the Government production target
is met; any shortfall will naturally increase the import requirements.
10.       The rapid increase in the domestic price of rice over the past
three years has adversely affected the production of jute, Bangladesh's
second most important crop and the source of about 85% of its foreign ex-
change earnings. Farmers have used substitutable jute land for rice cultiva-
tion, bringing jute production down sharply from its 1972/73 production of
6.6 million bales to 6.0 million bales in 1973/74 and 4.0 million bales in
1974/75. Due to the high export price set by Bangladesh, and the world-
wide recession, sales of raw jute have fallen even more rapidly, going from
3.3 million bales in 1973/74 to 1.0 million bales in 1974/75 (and over 25
percent of the latter were sold in June after the substantial price reduc-
tion made possible by the devaluation). Because of this decline in sales,
stocks of approximately 1.5 million bales are on hand for the 1975/76 sea-
son, an average level for recent years.
11.       The problems of the jute sector are not limited to pricing policy -
they are compounded currently by inefficient primary and secondary collec-
tions centers, a lack of storage space, and shipping difficulties. However,
without a timely increase in the farmgate price farmers could not be expected
to increase jute production to its former level. By the end of the planting
season in March 1975, no new minimum price had been set and thus the 1975/76
crop is expected to be again in the 4.0-4.5 million bale range. In July,
1975 a minimum purchase price of Tk. 90 per maund was established, only
slightly above the average market price of Tk. 88 for the month of June.
The recent devaluation of the taka will allow more increase in the domestic



- 4 -
price of jute, which should help return the acreage to its previous levels,
and a simultaneous decrease in the world price (expressed in foreign exchange)
of jute and jute goods to make them more competitive abroad, provided
marketing and production costs are controlled. A recovery of world demand
could lead to an increase in export earnings from jute and jute goods in
1975/76, even at the reduced prices. In the longer run, more effective
extension of improved jute cultivation techniques and an intensive research
effort will be essential to sustain increased jute production at prices
competitive with rice cultivation at home and synthetic substitutes abroad.
12.       Priority needs to be given to increasing output both of export
products, principally jute and jute goods and tea, and of foodgrain. This
involves close attention to such matters as the provision of agricultural
inputs, credit, transport and storage facilities and streamlined marketing
systems.
Industrial Production
13.       The manufacturing sector, although accounting presently for about
7-8Z of gross domestic product, is an important and growing element in the
Bangladesh economy. It produces basic consumer goods, provides agriculture
with fertilizer and other key inputs and contributes towards exports and
government revenue. The public sector comprises most medium and large-
scale industry while the private sector consists mainly of small scale
enterprises. Existing industrial capacity--most of which was built before
independence--has, however, not been fully utilized.
14.       Many components of the industrial sector registered substantial
increases in output in 1973/74, due primarily to increased availability of
imported raw materials and spare parts and reduced labor unrest. Program
lending by IDA and other bilateral foreign economic assistance was instrum-
ental in making additional imports available, yet production in most indus-
tries was still below target, and for many industries even below the 1969/70
levels. Shortages of imported materials emerged again as a result of the
payments crisis of 1974 and affected output severely.
15.       In 1974/75, the overall level of industrial output appears to have
been below that of the previous year, largely due to an 11% decline in jute
manufacturing. Nevertheless there are important areas of improvement in
performance among many industries based on local resources, particularly
those which are export-oriented, such as sugar, tea and leather which have
exceeded pre-independence production levels. However, in the case of
fertilizer (using local natural gas), the explosion at Ghorasal which put
the plant out of operation for almost nine months has resulted in a sharp
reduction in urea output.
16.       Among the other industries, largely or fully dependent upon im-
ported raw materials and intermediate goods, there are wide variations in
performance, reflecting the priorities of the Government in allocating its
limited foreign exchange resources and, to a lesser extent, the availability



-5-
in world markets of their input requirements (raw cotton and pig iron) which
changed sharply during the course of the year. The production of both
cotton cloth and yarn shows an improvement over the previous year and the
production of cloth in the organized mill sector is much higher than in
1969/70. Preliminary data for output of cement, diesel engines and pumps
also show increases but those for edible oils, footware, commercial vehicles
and matches show declines.
17.       Prospects for 1975/76 vary substantially among different industries.
The jute industry should benefit from the exchange adjustment. The cotton
textile industry, which is relatively efficient and has a protected domestic
market, should show continued improvement, provided sufficient foreign ex-
change is available for importing raw materials. Fertilizer production
should pick up during 1975/76 as the Ghorasal plant reopened in June 1975.
The export possibilities of those branches based on domestic raw materials
have been improved considerably by the exchange rate adjustment; these
include not only leather, processing of shrimp and fish and tea which are
basically export-oriented but also products such as newsprint and sugar
which have recently entered external markets. For both these groups of
products, however, export performance will depend upon the success achieved
in increasing output. Most other industries, which are heavily dependent
on imported raw materials and spares, will need to rationalize production,
increase productivity and improve pricing policies. Industrial performance
in all sectors will be influenced by the extent of labor unrest as well as
by management efficiency.
Development Planning
18.       The changes in Bangladesh's terms of trade in the past two years
and the effects of last year's floods have rendered the financial and econo-
mic projections of the First Five Year Plan (1973-78) and development pro-
gram almost completely out of date. The Five Year Plan, however, remains
useful as an indicator of broad policy options. Within this broad framework
major revisions continue to be made. The 1974/75 Annual Plan, prepared in
the midst of the foreign exchange crisis, provided no specific guideline
for restructuring the development program in the light of the dramatic
change in the terms of trade.
19.       Bangladesh is in the process of preparing a revised Three Year
Plan. The goal would be to achieve development with economic stabilization:
a reduction in the rate of inflation and a substantial increase in agricul-
tural output and capacity utililization in industry. The highest priority
would be given to the attainment of self-sufficiency in food. In the indus-
trial sector, labor intensive industries would be given special emphasis.
Greater efforts are also contemplated for the improvement of population
planning programs. While continued attention would be given to the needs
for social and physical infra-structure, only those meriting the highest
priority would receive investment funds during the period of the Three Year
Plan. The details of the Plan are now being finalized.



-6-
Recent Economic Reforms
20.       Bangladesh agreed to an economic reform package with the Inter-
national Monetary Fund in May 1975. It entered into a Standby Agreement,
which will enable Bangladesh to draw the equivalent of two tranches under
the Regular Facility, about $75 million. During the World Bank/IMF Annual
Meetings, the Bangladesh delegation reconfirmed their Government's deter-
mination to implement the provisions of the Standby Agreement. As a first
step, Bangladesh, on May 17, 1975, adjusted its exchange rate from Tk. 18.9
= i 1 to Tk. 30 = i 1. At the same time, it abolished the multiple exchange
rates it had applied to inward remittances and foreign travel, export sub-
sidies and the import license tax. It also announced that some import lib-
eralization would be introduced and import procedures streamlined. Some of
the requisite supporting measures in the monetary/fiscal field were incor-
porated in the budget presented to Parliament in June 1975; other associated
reforms are expected to be announced toward the end of the year.
21.       As stated above, the new exchange rate, translated into a higher
jute farmgate price should lead to recovery of some of the jute land switched
to rice in recent years. The Aus rice crop is the principal competitor for
jute land, though some of the Aman rice land could also be planted with jute.
A switch back to jute obviously would reduce the total rice crop. The maximum
diversion of rice acreage to jute has been estimated at about 2.5% of the rice
acreage. On this basis, the possible reduction in potential rice output could
be about 225,000 tons. Even at the lower post-deva:Luation export prices, the
recovery in volume of jute production and exports should mean additional
foreign exchange earnings that would enable imports of wheat in amounts at
least three times as large as the forgone rice output. In addition, there
would be employment benefits, as jute is more labor intensive than rice.
22.       The export of jute manufactures is still constrained by the inter-
national economic recession, affecting particularly such items as carpet
backing and hessian. Stocks of jute manufactures are also reasonably high
in importing countries. Nevertheless the devaluation, by permitting adjust-
ments in prices of Bangladesh products to competitive levels with synthetics,
has restored importer interest and there have been some indications of an
increase in orders. Should consumer demand recover during 1975/76, and
should the prices of synthetic substitutes rise due to cost inflation, as
the trade expects, the improved competitive position of jute products could
lead to a substantial recovery in exports. The exchange adjustment should
also provide relief towards eliminating operating losses of the jute manu-
facturing industry. These losses resulted from the necessity to maintain
export prices, determined by international competition, at levels much below
domestic production costs. Government policy forced the major share of the
burden of financing these deficits on the commercial banks. The higher taka
receipts from the exchange adjustment should permit the industry to discharge
some of its accumulated debts to banks and to undertake the necessary finan-
cial restructuring to promote efficiency.



- 7 -
23.       The budget for 1975/76 projects an improved fiscal performance
including a large current account surplus, resulting from an increase in
current revenues substantially larger (27%) than the projected growth in
current expenditure (13%). Most of the revenue increase would result from
sales taxes and from higher import duty yields. Efforts to control infla-
tion will be helped not only through achieving a current account surplus,
but also by the demonetization of 100 taka notes in May 1975. The fiscal/
monetary measures agreed with the IMF include control over credit and mone-
tary expansion, and limits on bank financing for the budget. Other important
policy measures, however, are still needed. No action has been announced as
yet on several key problems which, if resolved, would considerably improve
the prospects for 1975/76 and later years: the need to reduce heavy food
subsidies; the need to increase direct taxation, especially of agricultural
incomes and particularly those of large farmers; and the need for improved
financial performance of state enterprises.
Balance of Payments and External Assistance
24.       Bangladesh commenced 1975/76 with an improved external payments
position. Stocks of foodgrain, which were at a very low level on July 1,
1974, were up by about 300,000 tons to 528,000 tons. The aid pipeline of
approximately US$1.2 billion was almost US$400 million higher than it was
on July 1, 1974. While the pipelines for food and commodity aid were somewhat
higher than a year earlier, the pipeline of project aid was 60% greater.
Bangladesh's international reserves were estimated at US$216 million, or
nearly three times the level on July 1, 1974.
25.       Merchandise exports are expected to reach about US$420 million.
This is predicated on an improvement in the world economic climate and a
revival of activity in the industrial countries. It should permit a reduc-
tion in the high level of stocks of jute goods in Bangladesh. Provided
supplies are adequate and export prices can be kept at a level which enables
jute to compete effectively with synthetics, Bangladesh should increase the
volume and value of jute exports in 1975/76. It should also be possible to
maintain or improve the level of earnings from tea, sugar and leather, as
compared to 1974/75, since favorable demand conditions for these products
should continue in 1975/76 and since the exchange adjustment should improve
their competitiveness.
26.       Merchandise imports are projected at US$1340 million in 1975/76.
Foodgrain imports are projected at 1.5 million tons. Provided foodgrain
output conforms to estimates, this level of imports should enable Bangladesh
to meet normal consumption requirements and build up foodgrain stocks to
about 728,000 tons. Capital goods imports are estimated at US$250 million,
much of which could be disbursed from the existing project pipeline. The
rest, comprising raw materials, intermediate and consumer goods, amount to
US$790 million, or US$290 million in excess of the level of imports in
1974/75.



-8-
27.       The external capital requirements of BaLngladesh are estimated
to be about US$1,200 million in 1975/76. This level of capital inflow should
enable Bangladesh to achieve a level of imports sufficient to permit a modest
rate of growth, to provide for any contingencies resulting from unforeseen
changes in foodgrain output or industrial needs, and to build up reserves to
a level that would enable it to deal with temporary imbalances between
receipts and payments. The Government now expects to disburse at least
US$550 million from the pipeline of US$1.2 billion on July 1, 1975. This
would leave a sum of US$650 million to be disbursed out of new commitments
in 1975/76.
28.       Following the Aid Group meeting held in June 1975, revised estimates
made by the Government and reviewed with IDA show that disbursements from the
Aid Group out of new commitments could amount to about US$525 million,
including disbursements from the proposed credit.. Bangladesh has concluded
a Standby Agreement with the International Monetary Fund. This would enable
it to draw a sum of US$97 million from the Regular Facility by the end of
June, 1976, and US$32 million may be available from the Oil Facility. A
further US$35 million of disbursement from non-Aid Group sources is feasible.
This would about meet the estimated capital inflow requirement, however, the
ability of Bangladesh to disburse the required volume of aid will depend
ultimately on the speed with which agreements are signed and aid utilized.
The Case for Non-Project Assistance
29.       The case for non-project assistance to Bangladesh at this time
rests primarily on: (a) the magnitude and urgency of foreign aid disburse-
ments to provide for imported raw-materials, spares and components for
increasing industrial production and the utilization of existing capacity;
(b) the difficulty of achieving aid disbursements on the scale required
through appropriate projects; and (c) the need to support the introduction
in the jute and cotton textiles sectors of action programs designed to
improve output, reduce production costs and increase overall efficiency -
see para 33 below. The proposed credit would help provide the Government
with the flexibility needed to implement the monetary and fiscal program
initiated in recent months in conjunction with a Standby Agreement with the
IMF. The Government's economic stabilization program is focused on reducing
inflation and improving domestic resource mobilization in order to maintain
a shift in the orientation of public expenditure towards development. In
the Letter of Intent exchange with the IMF in July, the Government expressed
its intention to adhere strictly to credit ceilings and avoid inflationary
financing in 1975/76, to improve the financial performance and economic
efficiency of public sector corporations and to increase planned development
expenditure. In conjunction with a devaluation of the Taka by 58 percent
in May, the Government abolished export subsidies and multiple exchange
practices and introduced a partial liberalization of import controls. The
tariff structure has been rationalized and the scope of activities of the
State Trading Corporation reduced in recent months.
30.       The Basic Economic Report in 1974 and subsequent studies of the
Association have drawn attention to the disruptions of both short and long-



- 9 -
term nature which have followed upon independence. The structural changes
associated with the dismemberment of the previously integrated Pakistan
economy, and with disruptions in the world economy, in particular the
necessity to re-orient trading patterns during a period when the terms of
trade for Bangladesh were subject to a marked deterioration, placed a
considerable strain on Bangladesh's limited resources.
31.       Currently, raw materials, components, crude and refined petroleum
and foodgrains account for more than 80% of Bangladesh's total imports. The
Government's limited cash receipts continue to be required for petroleum and
that part of foodgrain requirements which is not financed by aid. Further-
more, foreign exchange reserves must be kept sufficiently high to enable the
Government to meet unforeseen contingencies, including natural disasters and
pressures resulting from leads and lags in external payments and receipts.
A large proportion of the foreign assistance which the country receives must
finance raw materials and components. As a consequence, non-project assis-
tance permitting rapid disbursements is essential if Bangladesh industry is
to provide inputs for agriculture and other basic consumer goods for a society
whose standards of living are already unacceptably low. Furthermore, timely
provision of this type of assistance will permit industrial growth in the
direction of export expansion and diversification.
32.       Within the Bangladesh Aid Group the Association has encouraged
members to increase the proportion of their aid which can achieve the rapid
transfer of resources the country continues to require. In 1975/76 Bangladesh
will need aid disbursements from commodity assistance of an unusually large
magnitude. The economy has been starved for goods, a fact which has affected
production levels, prices and living standards. This is a situation that
should be reversed. The availability of sufficient external resources for
the purchase of key industrial inputs is central to the objectives of ex-
panding output and the attainment of higher levels of capacity utilization.
This should, in combination with the proposed monetary-fiscal program, help
towards a reduction of the high rate of price inflation experienced over the
last eighteen months.
33.       At the same time, in order to ensure the most effective use of
the foreign exchange resources which are to be made available through non-
project assistance and to ensure the developmental impact of that assis-
tance, attention must be given to the performance of those activities
which are beneficiaries of the lending. Within the proposed Fourth Im-
ports Program Credit, the Association has studied two of the most important
industrial branches, jute and cotton textiles, and has recommended action
programs which the Government has agreed to implement to achieve the per-
formance improvements necessary for expanding output and attaining higher
levels of capacity utilization, as well as in the case of jute for increas-
ing exports. A substantial share of the proceeds of the proposed credit
will be channelled to these branches. The steps which the Association and
the Government have agreed to undertake are discussed in Part IV of this
report. Meanwhile import requirements of other sectors can be met through
conventional project assistance and to this end project preparation efforts



- 10 -
have recently been intensified by some agencies within the Government. The
Association will continue to work with the Government on a carefully selected
group of priority projects which need to be implemented. Of particular im-
portance will be projects which will reduce the country's dependence on im-
ports, for example those that increase food and fertilizer production, and
those which promote exports.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
34.       After Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and the Association
in August 1972, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated initially
on reactivation of IDA credits for uncompleted projects financed under
credits to Pakistan before the independence of Bangladesh. Eleven such
credits in an aggregate amount of US$151.35 million (including US$44.1
million for the repayment of amounts that had been disbursed under the
corresponding previous credits to Pakistan) have been made to Bangladesh.
In addition, ten new credits have been made, totalling US$285.6 million;
US$50 million for the Reconstruction (First) Imports Program Credit;
US$7.5 million for the Cereal Seeds Project; US$4.0 million for the
Technical Assistance Project; US$4.1 million for the Inland Water Trans-
port Rehabilitation Project; US$50.0 million for a (Second) Imports Pro-
gram Credit; US$20.0 million for a Second Telecommunications project;
US$75.0 million for a (Third) Imports Program Credit; US$15.0 million
for the Population Project; and US$27 million for the Barisal Irrigation
Project.
35.       Negotiations are underway between the Government of Bangladesh and
the various bilateral and multilateral donors concerning the assumption by
Bangladesh of a portion of the debt contracted by Pakistan before Bangladesh
became independent. Until such negotiations are complete, it is not possible
to estimate precisely Bangladesh's total public indebtedness, or its total
debt service. With respect of the Bank Group, Bangladesh has agreed to
accept liability as of July 1, 1974 for about US$92.4 million of debt with
respect to projects in Bangladesh completed before independence. Agreements
for a Consolidation Loan of about $54.9 million and a Consolidation Credit
of about $31.0 million (based on January 1, 1960 exchange rate) were signed
on February 14, 1975.
36.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and Bank loan
made to Bangladesh as of 1975, and notes on the status of execution of on-
going projects. Bangladesh is not a member of IFC. After an initial slow
start, disbursement performance under the program credits has been good,
keeping pace with the estimates made during appraisal. In contrast, dis-
bursements under project credits have lagged far behind expectations. Rea-
sons for this include Government procedures for hiring consultants and for
awarding procurement and civil works contracts, and shortages of construc-
tion materials such as cement. Various ways of improving this situation
are being discussed with the Government. Monthly meetings to discuss proj-
ect implementation issues were initiated in January 1975, both in Washington



- 11 -
and in Dacca. Recent signs of progress have included some improvements in
Government procedures for revising tender awards and consultants contracts,
and the establishment in the Office of the President of a Project Implementa-
tion Bureau, to monitor the progress of projects and to assist in breaking
bottlenecks. While it is too early for these efforts to have had a notice-
able effect on disbursement performance, it is hoped that the results will
soon become as noticeable as the effects of the earlier efforts with respect
to program credits. The recent alleviation of shortages of construction
materials in Bangladesh should also lead to improved progress in project
implementation in the near future.
37.       As stated previously, Bangladesh's severe balance of payments
difficulties require that increased amounts of aid be given in a flexible,
fast disbursing fashion. Program lending must therefore remain a feature
of IDA assistance. For the next several years the requirements of existing
productive capacity will remain high for the types of goods - spares, com-
ponents and raw materials - financed by IDA program credits. However, long-
term improvement in the Bangladesh economy can be expected only if sound
policies, programs, and development projects are pursued. Thus, projects
of the highest priority must also be supported. The Association recognizes
the prime importance of the agricultural sector and of efforts to close
Bangladesh's food gap. The recently approved Population Project fits
within the strategy of reducing the food gap in the future. The Ashuganj
Fertilizer Project and the recently approved Barisal Irrigation Project
are designed to assist in increasing food production in the more immediate
future.
38.       Other priority projects are at an advanced stage of preparation -
many of them in the agricultural sector. These include irrigation works in
the Muhuri and Karnafuli river areas, and Rural Training and Rural Develop-
ment projects. The growth of other sectors, particularly as they provide
infrastructure for, or process or provide outlets for the products of, the
rural economy, is also important. Several sector studies supported by the
Association - for example in industry and transportation (also assisted by
the United Kingdom) - should help the Government and the Association to
develop a suitable pipeline of projects consonant with mutual assessments
of economic priorities. Further economic studies will be oriented to the
same goal. Finally, the Association has provided funds under the Technical
Assistance Credit to assist the government in preparing development projects
for financing by the Association and other lenders.
PART III - INDUSTRY IN BANGLADESH
General Characteristics
39.       The structure of manufacturing industry in Bangladesh reflects
first, the extremely low per capita income and second, the basic dependence
of the economy on jute manufactures. No census of industry has been taken
since 1969/70 but it appears that little change has occurred since that



- 12 -
time. The sector accounts for some 7-8% of GDP and around 6% of employment.
Jute manufacturing represents about 30% of the total value added in,the
sector while clothing and textiles (including synthetic fiber production)
represent some 15%; the remaining traditional industries (food, drink and
tobacco) account for another 30 to 35%. Since these data refer only to
organized factory production and there exists a substantial handloom
weaving activity providing the bulk of the cloth consumed by the popula-
tion and which is not recorded, the importance of these traditional activi-
ties is probably larger than indicated.
40.       After independence the Government nationalized most medium- and
large-scale industrial units and the public sector now covers the units that
belonged to the public sector previously under the management of the East
Pakistan Industrial Development Corporation, the units that were owned by
West Pakistani entrepreneurs and abandoned by them during the war, and all
the units in the jute, cotton textile and sugar industries. The public
sector now comprises about 350 units with about 250,000 workers and about
70% of the fixed assets of modern manufacturing, that is, excluding cottage
industries. These are organized under several industrial "corporations"
called the Public Sector Corporations, under a ministerial body. The private
industrial sector now consists mostly of small-scale enterprises. Private
medium- and large-scale units exist to a significant extent only in the
pharmaceutical (three foreign owned units), edible oil and steel re-rolling
industries.
41.       A number of new industries have begun operation since the last
census, including fertilizer plants, engineering enterprises and assembly of
consumer items, many based on further processing of imported raw materials
or intermediate goods. These plants were largely established within the
development program of the then East Pakistan Industrial Development Corpora-
tion and some were designed for an integrated Pakistan market. Thus, the
current shortage of importecl materials combined with a reduced market are
the main factors underlying the failure of these industries to reach their
productive capacities and to have much impact on the basic industrial
structure.
42.       However, an improvement in the availability of raw materials and
spares will not by itself improve industrial performance in Bangladesh. The
inadequacy of domestic infrastructure, especially power and transport facili-
ties, continues to hamper efficiency in many industries. Transport bottle-
necks continue to impede the smooth carriage of raw materials inputs and
finished products between factories, the ports and markets. Efforts to
remove the bottlenecks in infrastructure are being made but they will take
a considerable time to achieve results.
43.       The management of many public sector entierprises suffers from
bureaucratic rigidities and inadequate training and experience. There is
considerable scope for improvements in productive efficiency and financial
performance. Most industries are not realizing their full income potential
due to incorrect pricing policies and rising costs of production, and others
are incurring considerable losses. The web of state controls built around



- 13 -
the operating procedures of state enterprises and the lack of autonomy in
pricing policies are some of the more obvious causes of the modest industrial
performance in the years since independence.
44.       The Government has obtained technical assistance to review the func-
tioning and organization of the public sector enterprises; recommendations
have been made concerning measures required inter alia to improve resource
allocation through appropriate pricing policies and reduction of controls
on distribution, provide more autonomy to plant management, streamline
bureaucratic procedures affecting corporate-enterprise relationships and
provide training to upgrade both management and the labor force. While
implementation of these measures has accelerated in the past year, much
remains to be done. In this connection, the action programs for the jute
and cotton textile industries, referred to in para 34 earlier (see also
Annexes VI and VII), which the Association has established with the Govern-
ment, represent integrated measures designed to improve management and labor
performance in the individual mills as well as production planning and con-
trol at the level of the two public sector corporations controlling these
enterprises.
45.       Management-labor relations, which were particularly bad immedi-
ately after independence, have improved recently due to the introduction
of incentive bonus schemes in some enterprises, and enforcement of tough
measures against labor unrest.
Performance in 1974/75
46.       As indicated in Part I, total industrial output in 1974/75 does
not appear to have increased over the level achieved in the previous year,
largely due to the 11% decline in jute manufacturing output. Some general
observations on current condition of the sector are provided in this section;
more details on specific sub-sectors are provided in Annex V. (Production
data are summarized in Table I of that Annex.)
47.       Other than jute, most of the industries utilizing domestic natural
resources have experienced fairly rapid output expansion. The major success
is sugar with refinery output expected to reach almost 100,000 tons in
1974/75, a substantial increase over the level of the previous year. This
will permit an export surplus.
48.       There has also been a considerable expansion in output of the
leather industry, particularly in the private sector which represents
around two-thirds of total output in this branch. Enterprises in the
public sector corporation, representing tanneries which have had particu-
larly difficult problems in restoring output since liberation, also recorded
moderate increases from previously extremely low levels. An especially favor-
able development in the private sector is the growth in the degree of proc-
essing which has occurred with the shift to export of tanned products. The
development of this industry is of major importance to the economy since
practically all of the output is exported.



- 14 -
49.       Output of the paper and cellulose industries showed some expansion
but of limited magnitude due to production problems arising from shortages
of essential imported raw materials (which represent 10-15% of total raw
material requirements) and spares, and from past periods of neglect in
maintenance. In the case of newsprint, it was possible to increase ex-
ports substantially as a result both of the rise in output and of the
decision of the government to reduce domestic consumption to take advan-
tage of the favorable world market conditions which existed for this item
particularly at the beginning of the fiscal year. On the other hand, rayon
and cellophane production declined sharply due to the fall in world demand;
exports had represented a major share of output in the previous year.
50.       In the case of tea the continued recovery in output permitted fur-
ther expansion in exports as buoyant world demand persisted. On the other
hand, there has been a fall in both the output and export of frozen shrimp
and fish due to difficulties being experienced in the catch.
51.       Finally the explosion in September 1974 at the Ghorasal fertilizer
plant (based on local natural gas) also represented a severe loss, depriving
the country of a much needed basic input for agriculture. Output from this
facility was, however, restored in mid-1975.
52.       The largest industrial branch dependent upon imported inputs is
cotton textiles. Output of cotton yarn in 1974/75 is provisionally esti-
mated to have been slightly above that recorded in the corresponding period
of the previous year, while cloth production in the public sector (excluding
the handloom sector) was about 8% higher. In the face of the rather large
volume of raw cotton required for this output, the instability in world
markets for that commodity (particularly the shortage during 1973 through
1974), and the foreign exchange difficulties facing the country, this per-
formance represents a rather remarkable achievement and reflects the ability
of the sector corporation authorities to maintain a reasonably adequate and
timely flow of imports.
53.       Among other industries highly dependent upon imported raw materials
and intermediates, there was wide variation in performance, in great part
reflecting the changes in import availabilities during the period. The sharp
cut in foreign exchange allocations in May 1974 which continued until the
end of the calendar year and tight supplies in exporting countries affected
a number of branches such as steel, edible oils and soaps; the shortage of
cement in particular curtailed construction activity. By early 1975, however,
some improvement was possible largely due to improved availability in world
markets and reduction in delivery times; during the shipping period January-
June 1975 the Government increased somewhat its allocation for industrial
uses. Thus, on balance the level of output in these particular industries
for the year 1974/75 is expected at best to reach no more than that achieved
in the previous twelve-month period.



- 15 -
Prospects for 1975/76
54.       The May 17 exchange adjustment and the other measures of economic
reform taken by the Government (see Part I) appear to have substantially
improved the competitive position of the exports of Bangladesh, but there
remains uncertainty as to the depth and length of the current world recession
and the strength of external demand in the 1975/76 year. Some recovery in
jute exports is expected, although the full impact of the changes in the
world's jute economy stemming from the various measures adopted by Bangladesh
has not yet been felt.
55.       In the case of timber-based products, the current situation of
world demand for newsprint and paper continues relatively favorable for
exports from Bangladesh. On the other hand, under current world demand
conditions export possibilities of rayon are limited, particularly in view
of the technical characteristic of the product whose production was origi-
nally planned for use primarily in West Pakistan. Capacity is double cur-
rent domestic requirements.
56.       Forecasts of the world market for sugar and tea also anticipate
some softening of demand and of export prices. Nevertheless these branches
in Bangladesh appear to have substantial scope for expansion since they
account for so little of world trade. Additional efforts are required to
expand cane and tea cultivation, as well as to improve yields. (In the
case of sugar cane improvement in refinery yield is also required.) There
are important issues here of domestic raw product price policies adequate
to ensure the volume of cultivation desired and the Government will have
to monitor this element carefully. In this connection, an increase has
already been announced for the 1975/76 sugarcane price.
57.       The trend towards further processing of hides and skins for export
as tanned leather seems likely to continue. The decline in world prices
from 1973-74 peaks and the continued rise in domestic costs had posed prob-
lems for the industry's export expansion hopes which had benefitted from
various export promotion schemes; thus, the devaluation will permit mainte-
nance of competitive external prices.
58.       One branch of these export-oriented activities which faces par-
ticularly acute problems is frozen fish and shrimp. Shortages of catch
have limited output in the past year. Not enough is known of the natural
difficulties causing this decline but it does not appear likely that they
will be removed in the immediate future; a long term research program may
well be required.
59.       Although the basic resource inputs for the branches discussed
above are domestically obtained, there are some critical inputs as well
as spare parts and chemicals which have to be imported. In the past,
acute foreign exchange shortages, superimposed upon tightness in world
supplies for these items (e.g. chemical pulp), caused reduction in pro-
duction programs of many of these enterprises. Within current foreign
exchange allocations, many of these manufacturing industries will be able



- 16 -
to maintain reasonable production levels for the remainder of calendar 1975.
Provision of finance under the proposed credit will provide resources for
maintaining the pipeline through the end of fiscal 1975/76.
60.       For the remainder of Bangladesh industry primarily serving the
domestic market and heavily dependent upon imported raw materials, inter-
mediate goods and spare parts, recent declines in world prices for a number
of these items and the reduction in shipping delays suggest that possibili-
ties will exist in 1975/76 for establishing more rational production programs
at generally higher levels of output. In the case of cotton textiles, a
major effort has been made by the public sector corporation to improve
productivity in its mills and further expansion is expected.
61.       Among other industries which will benefit from the easing of world
market conditions for their raw material needs are soap, industrial chemicals
and edible oil refining. There are indications that domestic demand for
these items remains suppressed and that increases in output of reasonable
magnitude could be absorbed under current price and income conditions.
62.       With operations finally restored at the Ghorasal urea plant and
with progress being made in overcoming initial operating difficulties at
the TSP plant, fertilizer production for 1975/76 is expected to be substan-
tially higher than in previous years with consequent benefits to the agricul-
tural sector and for the balance of trade. Continued improvement in oper-
ating conditions at the clinker grinding plant will also permit additional
foreign exchange savings; this plant is expected to produce some 150,000
tons of cement in 1975/76, about half its rated capacity, and should achieve
full utilization the following year. However, the improved flow of cement
which has already occurred and which is expected to continue during 1975/76
will lead to much higher levels of construction activity and this will re-
quire greater output from the steel mill as well as from the re-rolling
mills.
63.       There remain, however, a large number of industries, particularly
among the metal-working branches but including other items such as rayon
and matches, where raw material supplies are not the major constraint and
where little improvement in output can be expected. As noted, most of
these plants were established to serve the then integrated market of west
and east Pakistan and under highly protected conditions. The task of find-
ing alternative markets, particularly under the current world recession, is
an extremely difficult one and in many cases may well require major product
adaptation, in particular quality improvements. In these circumstances,
there is urgent need for the Government to adopt without further delay the
recommended reforms (see para 45) as regards the management of the public
sector corporations and enterprises to ensure that production is not encour-
aged where there is not sufficient effective demand. There is need to in-
crease the efforts being made at evaluating product mix and alternative
productive uses of the existing capital stock, from the point of view of
both export and domestic miarkets.



- 17 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
A.   Previous Imports Credits to Bangladesh
64.       Since November 1972 the Association has made three imports program
credits to Bangladesh totalling US$175 million for financing raw materials,
components, chemicals and spares to facilitate the fuller use of existing
productive capacities in industry and agriculture. Each of these previous
credits was designed to meet the particular economic conditions facing the
country at the time program assistance was requested by the Government.
Consequently changes have been made in the list of eligible subsectors in
response to changing requirements. In Annex II to this report, in which a
description of the progress of IDA projects under execution is presented,
the paragraphs that deal with these previous credits (345-BD, 458-BD and
515-BD) highlight the special features which each of them contained. An
analysis of the utilization of the three previous program credits by in-
dustry appears as Annex VIII.
B.   Description of the Project
65.       In January 1975, the Government requested consideration by the
Association of a fourth imports program credit, the proceeds of which could
be made available early in fiscal 1976. An Association appraisal mission
was in the field from February 16 to March 11, 1975 to review the Government's
request. A post-appraisal mission visited Bangladesh in July, principally
to discuss the proposed action programs, discussed below, for the jute and
textile industries. Negotiations for the credit were held in Washington from
September 9 to 11, 1975. The Government of Bangladesh was represented by a
team led by Mr. M. Syeduzzaman, Secretary, Ministry of Planning (Planning
Commission). Attached as Annex III is a Credit and Project Summary.
66.       In view of its concern that the proceeds of the proposed credit
be utilized efficiently by recipient industries and that these credits
support specific developmental objectives, the Association decided to
undertake a series of special studies of individual sub-sectors, examining
at the same time the measures required in the short and longer-term for
improving performance, as well as the basis for possible further IDA oper-
ations in each sub-sector.
67.       To initiate these studies and programs, analyses were made of the
two most important sub-sectors, jute and cotton textiles, which account for
almost half of value added in manufacturing in the country. The problem of
jute (both manufactures and raw material) in Bangladesh has long been of
major concern to the Bank Group because of its importance in exports and
was the subject of a two-volume study in 1972 (Report 114a-BD). The new
effort proposed for this branch was designed to update the findings of the
earlier study as well as to look more closely at jute manufacturing and its
current problems, including raw material supply. The interest in cotton,
and particularly yarn, stems from its importance in imports and the employ-
ment it offers both directly and indirectly through its links to handloom



- 18 -
weaving. The principal conclusions and recommendations of the sector
studies, which constitute the intended action programs for improving per-
formance in these industries, are presented in Annexes VI and VII. The
full texts have been distributed as Report No. .....
68.       The findings relating to the jute industry have drawn attention to
the serious plight of this vital branch. The dependence of Bangladesh on
exports of jute and jute goods is such that the difficulties of the industry
threaten the Government's efforts to meet its immediate short-term economic
objectives. The draft report was discussed with officials in appropriate
agencies of the Government and during negotiations agreement was reached on
the main elements of a program designed to improve performance in the industry.
The program has two major aspects: organizational changes in the Bangladesh
Jute Industries Corporation (BJIC) to improve production and financial plan-
ning and marketing for the entire industry; and operational activities to
improve performance at the mill level.
69.       Among the principal measures which are to be undertaken in a
first phase are that BSIC will: (a) carry out detailed studies of the
world market for jute products which Bangladesh has the potential to produce;
(b) strengthen its production planning division to develop annual production
programs for jute products based on demand forecasts and financial resource
considerations; (c) organize four maintenance task forces, to appraise
existing preventative maintenance programs and make recommendations for
improvement; and (d) set up an adequately staffed spare parts division which
will inter alia assess Bangladesh's capacity to produce locally the spare
parts required by the industry. A second phase, which is expected to be
undertaken within a UNDP/UNIDO project currently under negotiation, will
encompass assistance in areas touching on mill productivity, management,
marketing and financial planning and quality control.
70.       Regarding textiles, the study finds a favorable trend in perform-
ance of the industry and substantial improvements in productivity and in
financial organization since independence. However, there remain a number
of areas where further improvement is desirable. The report which included
an action program in selected areas was also discussed with officials in
appropriate agencies of the Government. The program gives attention to
additional measures to improve productivity at the enterprise level which
will require technical assistance, and particular emphasis is placed on
organizational changes in the Bangladesh Textiles Industry Corporation
(BTIC), to develop a long-term strategy for the industry. In the report,
attention was drawn to the implications of expanding output of the industry
in view of its dependence on raw material imports. This will require efforts
to ensure most efficient use of the foreign exchange allocated to the
industry and to explore possibilities for local production of man-made fibers.
Specifically, BTIC will: (a.) establish a production planning directorate by
the beginning of the 1976-77 fiscal year; (b) carry out a study of the
possibility of man-made fibers manufacture; and (c) institute preventative
maintenance programs.



- 19 -
71.       As with the jute progrram, agreement was reached with the Govern-
ment during negotiations on the main elements of the textile industry
program. However, some details of both programs had yet to be arranged and
the Government felt it might need additional time before complete agreement
could be reached. Accordingly it was agreed that only US$25 million of the
proposed credit (estimated to be adequate to cover expected disbursements
for the second quarter of fiscal year 1976) would be released upon credit
effectiveness, and that the release of the remainder of the funds would be
conditional upon finalization of the action programs (see draft DCA, Schedule
1, paragraph 2(d)). We now expect to be able to sign letters recording
agreement on the action programs soon after the Credit itself is signed.
72.       In view of the effort to which the Government has committed itself
to improve performance in the jute and cotton textile industries, it has been
agreed to allocate a minimum of 50% of the proceeds of the credit to the two
branches combined (see draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 1, para.
2(f)). The balance of the proceeds are to be used among other industrial
activities which have been identified by the Government and by the Association
as of highest priority; these include: (a) industries producing primarily
for export (tea, processing of fish and shrimp, and leather) or which have
capability to export (paper and board and sugar); (b) industries producing
basic consumer goods (chemicals and pharmaceuticals); and (c) industries
producing intermediate goods or services required for production in other
sectors (fertilizer, steel, construction activities and assembly of commer-
cial vehicles).
73.       A list of the industrial branches which would be eligible to re-
ceive funds from the proposed credit is provided in Annex IV. For each
assisted category, the list contains estimated total import requirements
for 1975/76 and the maximum amount of the credit that can be allocated to
that category. These ceilings take into account probable alternative sources
of aid. The Government has agreed to both the list of categories and the
ceilings. The draft DCA contains the individual branches, the proposed
ceilings and, where the product categories are heterogeneous, identifica-
tion of the specific industries eligible for assistance (see draft DCA,
Schedule 1).
74.       The Government has allocated the proceeds of the Credit among
potential end-users and has agreed that, prior to effectivenesss of the
proposed credit, a minimum of 25% of the import licenses to be financed
under the credit will have been issued (see draft DCA, Section 4.01).
In this way, disbursement of the proceeds can commence immediately after
the credit becomes effective.
75.       As compared to the previous imports program credit (515-BD),
an additional minor change has been introduced. The allocation for the
Bangladesh Small Industries Corporation (BSIC) has been eliminated in view
of the difficulties experienced by BSIC in its administration of allocations
made under previous credits and the consequent slow disbursement of proceeds.



- 20 -
Government has requested a second credit for BSIC which is being considered,
and in connection with this, BSIC's needs for current imports will be studied.
76.       In view of Bangladesh's balance of payment situation it is proposed
to reimburse expenditure made for eligible imports after July 1, 1975; the
aggregate amount of such disbursements will not exceed the equivalent of
$10,000,000 (see DCA, Schedule 1, para. 2(b)).
C.   Eligible Uses of Proceeds
77.       Funds for fertilizer production are to be used mainly for import-
ing phosphate rock and sulphur for the production of triple-super-phosphate
(TSP). Provision is also made for imported spares and for packaging materials
for the TSP plant, as well as for two existing urea plants at Ghorasal and
Fenchuganj. The jute industry's principal import requirements are spare
parts and chemicals. The special study made by the Association of this
industry is summarized in Annex VI.
78.       For the cotton textile industry, it is proposed to limit the pro-
ceeds of this credit to finance raw cotton, other material inputs, chemicals
and spares for the spinning and weaving mills under the control of the public
textile corporation. Under previous credits, yarn imports by the Trading
Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB) for distribution to handloom weavers were
also eligible; however, increasing domestic output of yarn and reduced con-
sumption levels have diminished the need to import that item.
79.       Import requirements for 1975/76 of the paper and board industries
to be financed under the proposed credit comprise mainly chemicals and spare
parts. While these enterprises have large requirements for imported long-
fibered chemical pulp to be mixed with the locally-produced mechanical pulps,
the bulk of those needs are expected to be obtained through bilateral com-
modity assistance. Assistance for the chemical and pharmaceutical indus-
tries, as in the previous credit, will be limited to the manufacture of
soap, glass, industrial chemicals and pharmaceuticals.
80.       The sugar industry has small but vital import needs covering spare
parts, packaging materials and chemicals.
81.       It is proposed to maintain the category of export-oriented indus-
tries, including both public and private sector enterprises for tea process-
ing, frozen fish, shrimp and frog-legs and leather industries. The last-
cited branch has substantial requirements for imported chemicals, while all
three require packaging materials and spare parts for equipment.
82.       Among the enterprises of the steel and foundry industry, the steel
mill at Chittagong, based on converting imported pig iron, has the largest
need for foreign exchange.   This category also includes re-rolling mills and
foundries in the private sector; since the Chittagong mill cannot meet all the
billet requirements of the country, the balance of the needs of these enter-
prises are imported by the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB). TCB
also imports pig iron for the private sector foundries.



- 21 -
83.       The inclusion of the commercial vehicle assembly industry, following
the practice of the previous credit, will permit only a small net addition to
the current stock of vehicles, essentially meeting vehicle replacement needs
and spare parts required to maintain that stock.
84.       Construction activities have probably benefited the most from the
dramatic shift in world market conditions which has permitted not only larger
purchases of essential imports (particularly cement) but has sharply reduced
shipping time for these items. As noted earlier, after a period of almost
eight months during which no imported cement was delivered, substantial
supplies are now arriving or are in transit. The funds recommended for
inclusion in the proposed credit would permit establishing an adequate pipe-
line for that commodity and would also be available for clinker purchases for
the grinding plant which should be able to increase substantially its produc-
tion in 1975/76. The fall in cement prices and the shift to clinker imports,
which implies foreign exchange savings for a fixed volume of cement, permits
a reduction in the allocation for this category as compared to the previous
credit.
85.       The distribution system for cement has been centrally controlled
with available supply (i.e. locally produced cement plus imports) allotted
by an inter-ministerial committee among public sector agencies and private
dealers selected at the district level; until recently 70% of available
supplies were reserved for the public sector. Increased availability in
early 1975 led the Government to modify its allotment program and additional
supplies were allotted to the private sector through the specified dealers.
These dealers are given a fixed time period for lifting their quotas after
which unlifted supplies may be re-allotted and the dealers can be removed
from future lists; however, no sanctions exist for public agencies, many
of whom have lifted their supplies with considerable delay. The effective-
ness of the allotment system in these circumstances has been discussed with
the Government and it has been agreed that prior to the disbursement of
Association funds for this industry, the Government will present a plan
for reducing these stocks. (See draft DCA, Schedule 1, paragraph 2(e).)
D.   Administration of the Credit
86.       Procurement.   Responsibility for procuring most public sector
imports has now passed from the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB)
to the various Public Sector Corporations. This decentralization of pro-
curement authority to the Corporations has assisted them in administering
the imports for their subsidiary units. These arrangements would continue
under the proposed credit. The TCB will retain responsibility for pro-
curing cement and corrugated iron sheets, and materials for the private
sector steel and foundry firms. The Chief Controller of Imports and
Exports (CCIE), in addition to issuing all the licenses for imports under
the Credit, will be responsible for handling the distribution of credit
funds to private sector firms importing goods other than those channelled
through TCB. It is expected that approximately 80% of imports financed by
the Association will be procured by the Sector Corporations or TCB on behalf
of public sector enterprises, and the balance by private sector enterprises.



- 22 -
87.       Government procurement procedures normally require international
competitive bidding or a request for offers from a minimum of three inter-
national suppliers. For all contracts amounting to more than Tk. 2,000,000
(approximately US$150,000) approval from the Office of the President is re-
quired. As was the case in the Third Imports Program Credit, the Associa-
tion and the Government have agreed that the importer would be required to
invite offers from a minimum of three international suppliers for all orders
estimated to cost US$100,000 or more (see draft DCA, Schedule 3). The Asso-
ciation would review such contracts and related documentation to ensure that
they were in accordance with the Credit Agreement. Imports of goods esti-
mated to cost less than US$100,000 would be made through normal commercial
channels.
88.       Disbursement.   Disbursement procedures would follow those of
previous program credits. Withdrawal applications will be prepared by
the Bangladesh Bank and forwarded to the Association. It is expected
that all contracts under this credit would be placed by March 1976, and
that the bulk of disbursements will be made within 18 months of the date
of the credit. Letters of credit for some items, however, are likely to
remain open for a considerable period, since the manufacturing lead time
for spare parts for some machinery can be as much as 18 months. The Credit
should be fully disbursed within 24 months, i.e. by about September, 1977.
Counterpart Funds
89.       The Government would make the foreign exchange proceeds of the
Credit available through the Bangladesh Bank to the eligible beneficiaries
who will purchase foreign exchange with taka funds through authorized banks.
The Government has agreed to deposit taka funds equivalent to the amounts
withdrawn from the proceeds of the Credit in an account currently being
maintained with the Bangladesh Bank, and to utilize these funds entirely
to finance the local costs of the Government's Development programs (see
Sections 3.04 of the draft DCA).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
90.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Republic of Bangladesh and the Association, the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of
Agreement, and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed
Credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
91.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are referred to in paragraphs 69 through 74 and paragraphs 76, 84 and 89.
Issuance of import licenses covering foreign exchange allocations aggre-
gating not less than $25,000,000 has been made an additional condition of
effectiveness (Section 4.01 of Draft Credit Agreement).



- 23 -
92.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
93.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
October 28, 1975



raw 1If3pp
Cu   dahrate (par tbeew.d2                                            61.             kIlo.. 
Infan martalit.                                                                                     12a0pe  toIan  U.bith)A.  J39. 
Life sxactsncy at birth (years)                                                             to 4         w06
3.5,&  3-1            3            2.9 4&       2.7 4&
Populatian pouto rate                      .. ~~~~~~~~~~~~0 2.6 aE.             2.0                2.911L
Population growfli rate - urban                             ...5~
Age ciruccore ~poancat),
65and over                                                                3 4272                       3           3Z
dency ratio  ~    ~         ~         1A0.90O                                     0.8 
= ndspandancy raMa                                                           111.  1.6W  /  1.2      1.0
rpoanpaulatioo  as perarcet ~      macin                                                    A7          to A
nmi, iaueI       a, of scoeptorsamm..                                  .. thos.175                  .220 f
go. of uare (S of married wmen)            ......                                                   S7
nr forces (thousanda)                              17, O4&s       t22.30011c       W,'lWLs    221,ODD    k &Mi,
Per centage wwioyed in agrivallvec                         76             7               63              LV_
Percentag. Amsmpoyed                                      .               .2
Pecn  2ntional ijocos  received by hbiSect 5%          19 j           ?(an' 
Lecn  aiconel bnone recived by bLigheat 20%            654ii          .                            53          5
Percent of national Income received by loemat 20%           .i     r        2 /rn5                                    3
Percent of National Income received by least 40S             1 8 Er         20                           13 S  3
8ThTW?byE OP lu 0fcmar
% eawd by saIlAiet I0% of oabrs
raLThlan 10721710
N Iion parWf4ieuana                                   1000   Ir       2,60 Dt        27,38) (s     1.,8W       i.7015
Population per aireing pare                              lOC    N       72,03  7E          8320 Le,   5.110       iu.
Popjasticn per hoepital had                              U1,S            8,120 Z,a 50JLso             1,620 11La    2%     0
Per capi&ta alorie mapely aa S of requirnants               ..             8C0 lab          82           90          94a /4&L
Pe, capita protein WticA. tOta  (grana.u   d.p  /            ,                               i521 /
Of   ick, enAmel and pa.la                                ..                                   j       1.6 /ab     207Cii
Death rate 1-4, yeare /7                                    6...
2!1a     do  IZ primr  achool enrofleen  ratio                 1     adae     50 asbag        n? Ari9 0/d
Adj.tod canaryschol urollant ratio                     a I   I       15 =a           12           28 75
lrana Of a  O*ing p.r-ided*fleet and eeond level             10             10f             12     -     12          13 7
Vocational anroUlmnt as   of ae. school enrolleant          ...                             28            6 15        3 
SAdlt literacy rateS                                        .,                             S6 Amm,an     )6t~'
EMR,No. of parcPont per roe (orbs.)                      .               .*                          2.8         2.3
Percent ofe"oopted unit. without piped "Late......                                                                   65
jaonst electriciy (aa 5 of total population)                ......574
Percent of fural population oomeaeted to electricity        *.              .              .
~1!iai,,ra per lOX) population                           .6                            Ila           22/          1.2
Paseengar cars p.r IOW poplatio                             .                I/              2a~1/.                  25 154
nEctric p.-a conataption (e.p.)3                                            12 /j22 7                   102 'W      41. dg
Wewepnint oenwomption p.c. kg ;.r pear                      0.2I                    0        .2 7       a. .7__       .
Mote.. FPigure. refer either to the latet perioda or toaoct of anriricmmntal temprature. MoY Weighte.an
Ithe latest yea". latest pariode, rater Ini principla to           distaibutioe by age at sac of national PoplUatines
the yasT  1956-60 or 15-66-70; tha ucAtot Yea" la Pr&             Protein atandarda (requirmaeen) for all onuntriao ;a stab-
ciple to 1960 and 1970.                                           tubed ky SOt zoon.I. Lemearob Service provide fr- a aiA
a. The Per Capita imP ecti-ta, is at ceSiet peicac fur            alowanca of 60 pee. of total protein par day., and 20 9rdn Of
ye,ar. otter than 1960, clculated br th ecane nonverajon       amina and palee protein, of which 10 gene chockd be animal
technique as the 1972 World bank Atlas.                       protein. Thece satndards are emotat lowr than thoe     of 75
fl Aloruge m%mter of da,ughtera par aomt of raproacctve           pe    of total protein =a  23 pe-n of animal Protein as1 an
age.                                                          averag  for the world, proposed by lcD in the Third trld Food
7Population growth -etea are for the dcades tening In           SwW57.
.1960 and 1910. .                                             Sae studies have auggesatd that codeo death rates of aildren
&  otto of population under 15 and 65 and over to popola-       aa" 1 throug5 it may be oaed as a firat apPrwimatia ias: of
tion of Wes 15-61 for ace dependency ratio and to lalor       malnutrition.
force of agoo 15-6i. f-r economic dependency reLico.      1   Peroantage arcrled of correfpocdia    pogola,tlon Of stanch age
n 71  refe~rence Standards rcprent phqeclogical re-           as dafined for sob aonntry.
truirmentsc for noreel activity and hem,lLh, taking 
La  972i  41 19611    /c   ZeLtiat;   15 Vast Nelarela;    4g    glagitared on4l;  1E ProJection, 1973;    ZLa  I6-701
1960-6i1     /_1 1960-f2;   a   occpaiitiae, regency Oapitaa and Other Placee with urban cbsnoterietloa;        at  For
definirtion tot7 urban are         L_ Yearbook12p         5         1912-73;       Motlo of pop4Atian uorer l5asnd65.
and o'r to ttal laor fomel  nI.idiuonly           OaettLod creane of 10,O0Offir more inhsbitentsj  &  AID
eaticate of labor force In age troo  15-59,; 1EM  report gLvee a figure of 180.4 Dimias based an th   97ppcatim
cecue. 'The dtff-rvnce is clnt to cLomrgo jis tie4 dofinlila of a workar. In the 19M  cencue per, he werepla ccoife
only on the banio of their vALIn aCtivities; thlc led-to the exclusion of aevera onategrtee, get  ae hWAouaeivea
ia   1963-61;   15  Hloutoeoda;   15  1971;   a._ i969;   /J  VeAL rater to bnuairj units)       19ify.68;a  &  Nicaer on
the ragicter, not all working to the country;       Noraae" in goVarUnaut seviceoly           Derr.nat.t howpJtalsa only;
1.1968;   ZAA  Incltjing rural hbuP1lial;    4fl  1 69-7Og        1981-.6;   l       1959-60;  ZjgL 4prcai.ata enurollet
Abe Percetage off Ppolation in 6-ia age group;   a (1 l   xatLn   which iaicluOia overaGe atudeats;  Isa  Approxiste
scroUiLai aa0 prca`toge Of Population ini 11-15 age group;   L&(  UP to end Of SOC40  level;   Zs!     965;  151  15 yeasz
and over;   (-k  PopCation of 10 yeara eqi over b%asd on one percent Searle date of 1911;j     1   66 --Defnt"ie
of literacy wkn-s;     jAa  1966417.                                                                           D      Li
aSelection Of MalYESi en An Objeotive tountry ia based on Y%aycia 'a auCceca in maintairing a high rate of econneaj
gro'ith and adtquace I ccc of welfare conaurrent1j, with diversifying its acommair atnootore.
16 hugest 13, 197



HIONOIGO fltVSSOP~~~fS4T DATA                            Page 2 of 3 Pages
(Aout  in   milon   of1..DofTAr
EAST PAKISTAN                    BANGLADESHdoas
Actual                          Proeced2/              19   -17                                        174       95
1965      1970      1927321        74      Qe9                          19 60-    1965       9 74 -
NATIONAL ACCOGNTSE                                                                       __16                          12_       1978         7     17       L7
Av;ex   _geati9671-1969 Prices & ExchneRates                 Average Anual Growth Rates            As Percent of GOT
Gross Domestic Product                3     0   W   3T     ,702       6,30      6.0        ,8                  .7       30       32        11.        0.       0.
Gains from Terms of Trade (+              1        9          0        -27       -9        -1304                                            -1.6       -2.
Gross Domestic Income  5,324  6,054  WTh3   ~~~~~         6.015   ~77K=5                5.6       2.6        *.      100.0     100.0    100.0
Import (incl. NFPS)                    640       508        727         592       643       712              20.6      -4.7
Exports   (import capacity)   485       334       358         247        201       290              12.3       7.7       --                        ___
Resource Gap13                                   T7          W                                                                                              ___
Consumption Expenditures             4.948     5,516     5,806        6,320     6,234     6,789               5.7       2.2
Investment     1  (tool, stocks)       531        712       265         258       223       287              13.3       6.0
Domestic Savsings                       376       538      -104         -87      -219      -135               4.3       7.4
National Savings                        256       525       -99         -83      -212      -130               8.7      15.2
MERCHANDISE TRADE                              Annual Data~ at Current PricesAsPretoTta
ImportsAsPretoTta
Capital goods                                   176       100         155       150       250                                             30        12       19
Intermediate goods      Lfe)                    157       250         239       350       474                                             27        29       35
Pools and related materials
Of which:   Petroleumw                         11        25          87        86       106                                              2
Consumption goods-                              239       352         436       664       510                                             41        53
Total Merch. Imports (cif)        -'7           27         77          Y        -17250  1,3010                                                      0        0
Exports                                                                                     3000                                                     Io         o
Primary prodtucts esxci. f'uels)                212       150         120       120       120                                             41         38      29
FuOels and related materials
or which: Petroleum
Manufactured goodis                             301       208         198       2l4       300                                             5           2       7
Total Merch, Exports (fob)           -.         513       3551954~'h                                                                                 62?      71h
TGurism andt Border    Trane31                                                  35       7nT                                                        O-
Merchacndise Trade Indices                       Average 19163- 69- lOO 2/
ExPort Price Index                     95        88       100         107       119       120                        -1.4
ImPort Price Index                     71       167       t00         162       210       191                        18.7
Terms of Trade Index                  134        53       100          66        57         63                      -20.0
Exports Volume Index                  101       118       100          83        83         91                        3.0
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                Annual Data at 1967- 695'sices and Exchange Rates                Average Annual Growth Rates          As Percent of Total
Agrlcultu.rc                       2,904     3,456      3,402       3,788     3,460     3,846                         3.5      1.5         56        60       56
Manufacturing & Mining                601       783       412         494       498       528                         5.5      4.5                   3        3
Other                              1,60      1.870      1,888~    ...2.078  ...2.21 ....  41.A                        3.1      s.s 
Total                              s,iio     6,111     5,702        6,360     6.209     6,784                         3_.6     3._2      100        100      100
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                               As Percent of GDP
(c~entral Government)
Cu.rrent Receipts                              316        286         472       627                                                        4.9        5.7     4.8
Current Expenditures                           148      _389          576       771                                                         2.3       7.0      5.9
Busdgetary Savings                              170     -103         -104      -144                                                        -2.8     -1.3     -1.1
Other Public Sector
Public Sector Investment                       389       250          284       400                                                        8.0       3.4      3.0
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                                                                               ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~US $ million zA!
CURRENT ExPENDITURE DETAILS          ~~Actual         Est.      Budget Proj.          DETAIL OR                                At end 19 7 2 P and ER
As % Total CuIrrent Expend.)               19       197 2/7 3  1973/74   1974/75 19             PUBLIC SECTOR                        First Plan      %of Total
Education                                           T_1r 8      -trr 9     1__9.1               INVESTMENT PROGRAM                    (19 73 / 74  - 19 79 / 7
Other Social Services                                  4.0        3.3       4.5                 Social Sectors                            758            15.3
Agriculture & Other                                                                             Agriculture                             1,302            26.4
Economic Services                                     11,2       10.7        5.9                industry and Mining                     1,024            20.7
Administration and Defense                            67.4       68.0      61.4                 Power                                     529            10.7
Other                                                  2.7        3.1       9.1                 Transport and communications              802            16.3
Total Current ExPenditures                           10O 0.0    10o0.0o   100.0                 Other                                     524            10.6
________________________________________________________________         Total Expenditures                      _r  w100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                   1960-       1965-     1970-    1973-        FINANCING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)                1965       1970       1975    1978             Dosmestic BorroiLna                    784            15.9
Average ICOR                                                      3.74        ..     2.2             Public Sector Savi~ngs               2 022            40.9
Import Elasticity                                                 1.29       .        ..Progran aid counterpart
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate                                    0.22       .        ..Foreign ProJect Aid                               0   ?32
Marginial National Savings Rate                                   0.35       ..        .               oa    iacn                          .4              0.
ILABOR FORCE AND                                   Total Lator Force                                    Value Added Per Worker    19 67-9     Prices & Exc. Rates)
OUTPUT PEN WORKER                   In Millions          4cfLT Tota            19 61 -73          In U.S.IDollars      Percent of Avrae            19    -
19607C61    1-972/73 19 61       19 73     Growth_Rate          19 70      197312/      19         1~973      Growth Rate
Agriculture                         16.1        20.5      85          78          2.0               ..         166                     76
Industry                             1.0         1.8       5           7          5.0               ..         229                   105
Service                              1.8         3.9      10         15           6.7               ..         484       ___         222
Total                               18.9        26.2     100        100O          2.8              248         218                   100
1/ Data up to 1969/70 pertain to erstwhile East pakista..
2/   1972/73 onward    are annua   dsta, in 1972/73 price     end eachange rate and hence are flt eteistly comparable to data of the previous year.
3/ These are original Pl an targets, which are out of reach in the present circumstan,ces.
Note:    All figures are on fiscal year basis July 1 - Tune 30.
not applicable           - nil or negligible
not available           -  less than half the
smallest unit shown



W  ::::                    o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
U~~                      .0 1.0 --
 4l~~~~~~~~'    J   0 - t1  owP!8@cu|||; 0         .Z 
1~~~~~\el I      II Ib       IkI'0 : es     eS '  ta^  aa 
.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           o
I   ?      wN1>              |1twv i   .0  w c 0w@<< 25
l  4|o  l l   [  1                tp> 4o-,|o oo  .o 
C                                  S 0. 
r~~~~~~~~~~~' eh :t                  a t  i  2F  -2eaGe 



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of August 31, 1975
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh
US$ Million net of
Credit                                                   Exchange Adj ustment
Number   Year               Purpose                      Amount     Undisbursed
339      1972      Cyclone Area Reconstruction
(replaces Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971) 25.0          16.5
340      1972      Chandpur Irrigation II (replaces
Credit No. 184 of 1970)                13.0          9.2
341      1972      Tubewells (replaces Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                               14.0          8.6
343      1972      Telecommunications (replaces part
of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969)          7.3          1.8
345      1972      Reconstruction Imports                   50.0         0.6
353      1973      Small-Scale Industry (replaces
Credit No. 192-PAK of 1970)             3.0          0.4
367      1973      Chittagong Water Supply (replaces
Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963)              7.0          2.3
368      1973      Dacca Water Supply and Sewage (replaces
Credit No. 41-PAK of 1963)             13.2          2.4
S-14      1973     Irrigation Engineering (replaces
Credits Nos. S-8-PAK and S-10-PAK
of 1969 and 1970)                       3.15         0.1
381      1973      Foodgrain Storage (replaces Credit
No. 83-PAK of 1966)                     19.7         0.8
407       1973     Education (replaces Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and 1966)           21.0         10.6
408      1973      Highways (replaces Credit No. 53-PAK
of 1964)                               25.0         18.0
409      1973      Technical Assistance                      4.0          3.2
410      1973      Cereal Seeds                              7.5          7.4
424      1973      Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation     4.1          2.9
458      1974      Imports Program                          50.0          4.3
487       1974     Second Telecommunications                20.0         19.5
515      1974      Third Imports Program                    75.0         32.4
527      1975      Ashuganj Fertilizer                      33.0        33.0
529      1975      Consolidation Credit                     31.0         31.0
533      1975      Population                               15.0         15.0
542      1975      Barisal Irrigation                       27.0        27.0
SUBTOTAL                         467.95       247.0
Principal Repayment                                 0.20
Effective Credits held by Association             467.75
B.   IBRD Loans to Bangladesh
1087     1975      Consolidation Loan                       54.9      0
TOTAL                            495.85     0



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION -
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project; US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Closing Date:   June 30, 1976
Credit became effective January 17, 1973. Implementation of the
original project, financed under Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971, had not commen-
ced prior to the suspension of disbursements. The repair work of 11 out of
14 damaged port terminal buildings has been completed and land has now been
acquired for 8 out of 10 new terminals. Contracts have been signed for all
equipment component of the telecommunications system. Earthwork has been
completed for about 50% of primary roads, and 73 cyclone shelters are under
construction or complete. Activation of the cyclone warning system is ex-
pected soon. Progress has been slow due in part ot administrative delays
and the severe shortages of construction materials in Bangladesh. The
materials are now arriving and the progress is expected to improve in the
next construction season. Project completion is expected to be about two
years behind the schedule anticipated at appraisal. In June 1974, the
Government submitted to the Association a proposal for reducing the scope
of the project in order to cope with the sharp increase in construction
costs since the Project was appraised. The proposal involved reductions
in the feeder roads to be financed by the Credit (a financing for these
roads has been obtained from the World Food Program), reductions in the
fisheries subproject, and minor reductions in other project items. Given
the very early stage of procurement under the project, it was decided not
to formally amend the project at that stage, and it was agreed that the
Government's proposals for reducing the project provided a reasonable basis
for proceeding for the time being. A revised proposal from the Government
based upon revised cost estimates is expected shortly concerning the amend-
ments required in the project description and allocation of the amounts of
the credit to each subproject is expected shortly.
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:   US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18. 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Credit became effective January 17, 1973. The Project is far
behind schedule and continues to be plagued with problems. Major flooding,
work stoppages caused by 100% increase in construction labor costs, short-
ages of cement, fuel, and operable construction equipment, ineffective
management, inadequate provision of local funds and general inflation are
factors which have delayed project construction. There is some improvement
in construction recently. However, outstanding contractor claims are
retarding progress. Manufacture of the electrical and mechanical equipment
for the regulators and pumping plant has been completed, and delivery is
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
being made to the sites.   Delays in finalizing the low-lift pump specifica-
tions by WDB are retarding procurement. Continuing inflation and other
adverse factors are expected to increase the Project costs substantially
over the appraisal estimate.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of November 6, 1972,
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
This project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 208-PAK of
1970 and credits from Sweden and Canada. Although bids had been received in
1971, no contracts were awarded before the disturbances. The piesent Credit
is again in conjunction with a Credit from Sweden and a grant from Canada.
Construction on this project began during January 1974. In April 1974, IDA
approved award of the contract for supply of the well pumps and engines.
Signing of the contract documents has been delayed but delivery has commenced
on the basis of a letter of intent. Due to initial delays, present imple-
mentation is about 18 months behind schedule. In January 1974, the Govern-
ment and the engineering consultants signed a revised contract providing for
the additional engineering and agriculture consulting services needed for
the project. In February 1974, the agricultural consultants (who were under
sub-contract to the engineering consultants) withdrew from the project,
stating that the salary scales in the revised contract signed by the
engineering consultants were inadequate to attract staff of the calibre re-
quired for the project. Proposals to replace the agricultural consultants
and expand their activities have been agreed in principle by the Government,
and the financing of the additional agricultural consultant costs is current-
ly under consideration by a bilateral aid agency. Drilling of the tubewells
has progressed satisfactorily in the past construction season.
Cr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project: US$7.3 Million Credit of November 15,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Credit became effective January 17, 1973. The project was origi-
nally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969, and goods and services
valued at about US$2.2 million were received in Dacca prior to suspension of
disbursements. Three out of the four microwave systems in the Project are
under installation and are scheduled to be commissioned by March 1976, and
about one year behind schedule. The fourth system is a replacement of a
coaxial cable system in the original project. This change was agreed to by
IDA and was caused by price increases demanded by the original contractor
which made the choice of a microwave system more economical.    The bid invi-
tation for this sytem has been included with the bids that have already been
invited for other mocriwave systems under Credit 487-BD. Even so, the system
is scheduled to be commissioned in late 1977 or early 1978. A request for
extension of the Closing Date for this Credit will be considered after receipt
and evaluation of the tender when the commissioning date of the microwave
system will be more precisely known. The foreign costs of the project are
expected to be within the original estimates of US$7.3 million. The local



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
costs are estimated to increase from Tk 39 million to Tk 59 million due to
higher labor and construction costs and the imposition of a 20% tax on all
imported goods.
Cr. No. 345    Reconstruction (First) Imports Program; US$50 million
Credit of November 30. 1972; Closing Date: August 31, 1975
This Credit was signed on November 30, 1972 and was the first new
Credit made by the Association to independent Bangladesh. At that time the
economy was in the very early stages of recovery from the severe setbacks
caused by the cyclone of 1970 and the war of 1971. The list of goods
financed under this Credit was comprehensive, and covered all major sectors
of the economy, industry, agriculture, power, transport and communications.
The list was formulated to cover two categories of need, namely (a) equip-
ment and wpares to replace or repair capital goods damaged or destroyed in
1970 and 1971 in order to restore, at least in part, the economy to pre-war
capacity, and (b) materials, components and intermediate goods needed as
inputs to utilize existing productive capacity.
Utilization of this Credit suffered initially while the Government
took three months to allocate credit funds to potential recipients. The
proceeds of the Credit were spread thinly over some 43 categories of eligible
goods, and to numerous end-users, most of whome were unfamiliar with IDA
procurement requirements and disbursement procedures. The first IDA commit-
ments were not made until May 25, 1973, almost six months after the signing
of the Credit. The Credit, therefore, had no impact on production during
1972/73. Thereafter, utilization improved. Staff members of IDA's Control-
ler's Department visited Bangladesh frequently to assist the various agencies
in the implementation of the Credit. Letters of Credit were opened more
expeditiously and disbursements accelerated. By September 1973 the Credit
had been fully committed by the Government. However, during 1974 severe
shortages of shipping space on major international lines prevented shipment
of many of the goods which had been ordered against letters of credit guaran-
teed by the Association, with disbursements of credit funds consequently
slowing down. In addition, certain suppliers have been unable to meet the
agreed schedules for delivery of some goods such as items of capital equip-
ment and spares for outdated machinery, with the result that the Association
has had to agree to two postponements of the Closing Date of the Credit. The
present Closing Date is August 31, 1975, one year behind the original date.
As of August 31, 1975 disbursements amounted to US$49.7 million. In addition,
letters of credit guaranteed by the Association amounted to US$10.4 million.
Cr. No. 353    Small-Scale Industry Project; US$3.0 Million Credit of
January 19, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
Credit became effective May 14, 1973. The Project was originally
financed by IDA Credit No. 192-PAK of 1970. The Credit has financed notional
repayment of amounts previously disbursed under Credit No. 192-PAK (US$187,000)
and payment of outstanding amounts for consulting services performed under



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
Credit No. 192-PAK (US$12,000). Disbursements for new activities up to
June 30, 1975 amounted to approximately US$2.4 million. The balance amount
available is expected to be disbursed during 1975/76. A UNDP/UNIDO technical
assistance project has made some limited progress toward reorganization of
BSIC.
Cr. ITo. 367   Chittagong Water SuEply Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
The project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 42-PAK under
which US$3.3 million was disbursed. The current credit became effective
June 7, 1973. The work has progressed at a slow rate, but will improve now
that several civil works contracts are under way. Physical progress had been
curtailed by lack of cement, slow delivery of pipe, and slow preparation of
designs and contract documents. While the immediate requirements for pipe
and cement are on hand, several supply and construction contracts are yet
to be tendered. WASA has been requested to hasten the preparation of contract
documents and the tendering for this work. Management, labor and union pro-
blems are now being better addressed following the appointment of the new
Chairman. While collection performance has improved, financial operations
and financial management remain weak. The Government has increased the water
rates by 50 percent effective July 1, 1975. However, unless the performance
in billing and collection improves and leakage is reduced, further rate in-
creases would be necessary to meet the financial covenants of the Credit
Agreement. The Association has agreed to extend the Closing Date by one
year to June 30, 1976. At that time a decision will be made, based upon
the progress over the year in meeting the financial covenants, as to whether
or not to extend the Closing Date for the additional 1 to 1-1/2 years re-
quired to complete the project.
Cr. No. 368    Dacca Water and Sewerage Project; US$13.2 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
The project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 41-PAK of
1963. By December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$6.0 million
had been disbursed. The current Credit became effective June 7, 1973. The
work has progressed at a slow rate but will improve now that several civil
works contracts are under way and tubewell materials and equipment have
been delivered. Right-of-way acquisition and contractor performance continue
as major problems. Management and labor problems continue, and financial
operations and the financial condition of the WASA remains weak. The Govern-
ment has increased the water rates by 50 percent, effective July 1, 1975.
However, unless performance in billing and collection improves and leakage
is reduced, further increases would be necessary to meet the financial cove-
nants of the Credit Agreement. The Association has agreed to extend the
Closing Date by one year to June 30, 1976. At that time a decision will be
made, based upon the progress over the year in meeting the financial cove-
nants, as to whether or not to extend the Closing Date for the additional
1 to 1-1/2 years needed to complete the project.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
Cr. No. S-14   Irrigation Engineerinl Prolect; IJS$3.15 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Credit became effective July 8, 1973. When IDA suspended disburse-
ments under the original credits to Pakistan (Credit Nos. S-8 and S-10) in
December 1971, the Dacca Southwest feasibility studies were completed and
the Karnafuli-Muhuri studies were about three-quarters completed. Interim
financing from Sweden allowed the work to continue. The feasibility studies
for the Muhuri and Karnafuli projects are now completed. A preliminary
draft report for the Comilla-Noakhali project (Dakatia Unit) was submitted,
but the Government decided not to proceed with the project at this time.
Funds remaining in the Credit are being used to finance detailed engineering
and preparation of contract documents for the Muhuri project by the Consul-
tant. The Closing Date has been extended from July 31, 1975 to December 31,
1975.
Cr. No. 381    Foodgrain Storage Project; US$19.7 Million Credit of May 18,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
The project is also financed by a credit from the Kingdom of
Sweden of 25.0 million Kroner. The project was originally financed by a
US$19.2 million IDA Credit No. 83 of 1966 and a 25 million Kroner credit
from the Kingdom of Sweden. The project was almost completed at the time
of Bangladesh's independence and 95% of the present IDA and Swedish credits
were used for repaying the previous credits. The remaining funds (US$1.25
million from IDA and about US$0.25 million equivalent from Sweden) are being
used to pay outstanding bills for work completed prior to the war, comple-
tion of some supporting facilities for the grain storage silos, replacement
of spares and equipment damaged during the war, and a feasibility study for
a second grain storage project. The Closing Date has been postponed by one
year to December 31, 1975 due mainly to delays in reaching agreement with
the consultants for design of modifications for the jetty at Chittagong and
with the consultants preparing the feasibility study for a second stage
project. The designs for the jetty modifications have been approved and
we are awaiting receipt of proposed arrangements for construction. The
draft final report for the feasibility study was completed in December
1974 and is expected to be finalized by October 1975. Supervision missions
have reported serious deterioration in the silos mechanical equipment due
to inadequate maintenance. The management and staffing of the Directorate
of the Silos is adequate. Delays in ordering spare parts (for which funds
are available under the Credit) increase the risk of breakdown.
Cr. No. 407    Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Credit became effective September 27, 1973. The project was
originally financed by two IDA Credits 49-PAK and 98-PAK. By December 1971,
when disbursements were suspended, US$7.7 million had been disbursed out



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
of the US$17.5 million aggregate total of the two former credits. The
Credit 407-BD added US$3.5 million to the total of the original Credits,
in order to help the Government meet part of the increases in total project
cost. Progress on the Agricultural University portion of the project was
delayed initially due to difficulties in reaching agreement with the consul-
tant architects on a revised contract. Construction has also been delayed
due to shortage of building material, delays in the preparation of equip-
ment lists, and furniture designs. The recent devaluation of the Taka has
somewhat reduced the cost overruns but the costs of the project is still
estimated at 150% of appraisal estimates. The Government is preparing
proposals for modification of the project to meet the cost overrun.
Implementation is about 20 months behind the appraisal schedule. Progress
on the technical education portion of the project is about 12 months be-
hind the appraisal schedule. Niow the graduates are facing severe problems
of unemployment, and the curriculum needs revision to make it more relevant
to job requirements. The Government will be making recommendations on the
development plan of the Agricultural University shortly.
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29. 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
The Credit Agreement became effective on September 27, 1973. The
project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 53-PAK. By December 1971,
when disbursements were suspended, US$3.62 million had been disbursed, out
of the original credit of US$22.5 million. The new credit adds US$2.5 mil-
lion to the original credit amount, in order to help the Government meet
part of the increase in total project cost as a result of currency realign-
ments. Four construction contracts were signed in September 1973 for the
Sitalakhya Bridge and the Feni Section of the Dacca/Chittagong road worth
about US$9.2 million. A fifth contract with consultants for construction
supervision was signed in February 1974 but they were in the field earlier.
Shortage of spare parts, administrative delays and deficiencies in some
contractors performance have delayed certain elements of the project. Con-
struction of the 1300-foot bridge over the Sitalakhya River previously on
schedule is now likely to be completed two years behind schedule, in mid-
1979 due to technical difficulties compounded by poor contractors' performance.
However, the twenty-mile Feni bypass road construction project is well on the
way to completion, and plans for paving the road are now under preparation.
The estimated cost of civil works has increased by about 60%, in line with
worldwide trends. However, the total overall project cost increase is con-
siderably less, being about 25%. Disbursements, which in the past have been
slow, show signs of improvement.
Cr. No. 409    Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29. 1973: Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Credit became effective August 20, 1975. After a slow start, the
Government has recently begun to take advantage of the funds available under



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
this credit for preinvestment planning, feasibility studies and technical
assistance for agencies involved in project planning and implementation.
Contracts have been signed with consultants for five projects with an alloca-
tion from this credit of about $1.0 million. These studies have played a
key role in the preparation of the Ashuganj Fertilizer Project and three
other projects which are under consideration for FY77. Another five sub-
projects involving $0.9 million of credit funds have been recently approved
and arrangements for selection of consultants are underway. A major project
for establishing a project preparation cell in the Water Development Board
(involving about $1.0 million of credit funds) is currently under review.
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project: US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973; Closing Date: June 30. 1978
Credit became effective September 27, 1973. Detailed investigations
have indicated that the damage to the Chittagong offshore oil terminal was
more severe than previously believed. Consultants appointed late in 1973 to
study several alternative technical solutions have submitted their findings
and an Amending Agreement modifying the project description, increasing
the amount of the credit from US$4.1 million to US$8.7 million was approved
by the Executive Directors on September 16, 1975. The procurement of spare
parts, tools and equipment for the Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority,
Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation, Chittagong Port Trust and
Bangladesh Engineering and Shipping Corporation suffered from initial delays,
reflecting in part the lack of familiarity of the agencies with IDA procedures
and slowness in reaching decisions as to which spare parts had highest priority.
Progress has now improved and it is expected that all orders will be placed
by November 1975. Disbursements for this portion of the project are expected
to be completed by June 30, 1976, one year later than originally anticipated.
Cr. No. 458    Imports Program; US$50 Million Credit of February 7. 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1976
The Credit was signed on February 7, 1974 and became effective
February 13, 1974. By June 1974, licenses for the full amount of the credit
had been issued to the various eligible industries. As of August 31, 1975,
disbursements amounted to US$45.7 million and, in addition letters of
credit guaranteed by IDA had been opened for US$1.8 million. Import orders
have been placed for the balance, and the credit is expected to be fully
disbursed by December 31, 1975.
At the time the requirements for this Credit were appraised it had
become appropriate to narrow its focus (to concentrate only on the highest
priority sub-sectors) in order to improve the utilization of existing pro-
ductive capacities, and was used to finance fertilizers and raw materials
for fertilizer production, and components, chemicals, raw materials and
packaging materials for selected high priority industries. Twelve
categories of eligible uses were created, and in order to give
the Government flexibility in allocating the proceeds of the Credit,



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
the ceilings indicating the maximum amount of the Credit which could
be used for each category were set so that their aggregate substantially
exceeded the final amount of the Credit. This enabled the Government to
adjust their allocations to changing priorities as needed, taking into account
the new sources of non-project assistance which became available during
1973/74. Items of capital equipment (except for small items of equipment
for the balancing of production) were excluded, since it was not intended
to create new capacity in industry or agriculture. Rather, the Association's
support in these fields was to be instrumental in facilitating those sectors
that (a) produce goods for export, (b) serve the essential requirements of
consumers, and (c) serve the key construction and transportation sectors.
By June 1974 licenses for the full amount of the credit had been issued
to the various eligible industries.
This flexibility and the sharper focus that was provided to the
uses of the Credit were responsible, in part, for more rapid utilization.
But, more importantly the progress resulted from the Government's recogni-
tion of the high costs of delays in utilizing this very important source
of untied foreign exchange. During negotiations for the Credit, the Govern-
ment agreed to seek ways to prevent the kind of delays noted above from
which the First Imports Program Credit had suffered. Realizing the costs
of excessive caution in issuing licenses, the Government undertook to issue
licenses both in advance of the signing of the Credit and also in excess of
the amount of the Credit, and to pay for the latter excess from its own
cash foreign exchange. The Government also recognized that administrative
bottlenecks within the national banking system and in the import control
system were hampering the flow of vital imports. The Government, therefore,
strengthened the administrative unit within the Planning Commission which
is responsible for IDA Program Credits in order to expedite actions in all
agencies concerned with the import process up to the time of shipment of
the goods. For the longer term, the Government recognized the need to
examine the institutional and administrative constraints in the entire
import control system and thus agreed to conduct a study of the system to
determine ways to streamline the import process in all its stages. Prepara-
tion for this much needed study were begun in June 1974. Terms of reference
for it have been agreed between the Government and the Association, and IDA
has agreed to finance the study, which is expected to be completed by
May 1976, from the Technical Assistance Credit (CR. 409-BD).
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Credit became effective July 23, 1974. Procurement work is well
in hand with the major orders expected to be placed by December 1975. Local
telephone expansion has lagged about a year behind schedule due to slower
than expected deliveries from the local factory (hampered by labor unrest).
However, the factory production is now picking up and the shortfall in
project targets is expected to be made up by 1977. According to present
cost estimates, foreign costs are likely to be within the original estimates.
The local costs will increase from Tk 470 million to Tk 680 million due to



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
higher labor and construction costs and the imposition of a 20% tax on all
imported goods. Under the Credit Agreement, BTT is to establish a modern
accounting system and is to be transformed into a Board with adequate
autonomy. Accounting consultants have been selected and a draft contract
is being submitted for IDA approval. The Board was legally established
before the June 30, 1975 deadline, but the ordinance was revoked almost
immediately thereafter. We are awaiting more information on the reasons
for this revocation, and the Government's intentions concerning the creation
of a telecommunications board.
Cr. No. 515     (Third) Imports Program; US$75 Million Credit of
October 9, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
With the previous two program credits almost fully committed and
with the emergence of a balance of payments crisis in mid-1974, the Govern-
ment requested a third program credit. Following the lines of the Second
Imports Program Credit, credit proceeds were allocated only to the highest
priority industries, such as (a) export-oriented industries (e.g. jute,
paper and board, sugar, tea, leather, and processing of shrimp and fish);
(b) industries producing essential basic consumer goods (e.g. cotton text-
iles, chemicals and pharmaceuticals); and (c) industries producing important
intermediate goods or services required for production in other sectors
(e.g. fertilizer, construction and commercial vehicles).
The Credit was signed on October 9, 1974 and became effective on
October 10, 1974. In view of the extremely critical balance of payments
situation confronting the Government at the time, it was agreed, as an
exception to normal Bank Group policy to utilize part of the Credit and
reimburse the Government for payments made for eligible imports out of its
own foreign exchange resources after July 1, 1974 but before October 10, 1974
up to a maximum of US$10 million.
Disbursements of this amount took place almost immediately after
the Credit was declared effective, and were made against bulk purchases of
raw cotton which had been paid for in cash foreign exchange. Since that
time a large proportion of the commitments and disbursements that have been
made under this Credit have tended to be against bulk procurement of basic
commodities. As of August 31, 1975 disbursements were US$42.6 million and
commitments US$18.7 million. However, the requirements of spares and com-
ponents for certain industries remain high and for some of these industries
IDA is virtually the only source of foreign exchange to which they have
access. Consequently, while the bulk of disbursements under this Credit
should take place by March 1976, it is expected that certain letters of
credit will remain open beyond that date. Shortages of shipping space on
major international lines continue to hamper deliveries to Bangladesh in
many instances. In others, suppliers require substantial periods of time
to manufacture spare parts for machinery which is outdated, indeed often
obsolete.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$33 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Credit is not yet effective. The terminal date for the effectiveness
of this Credit, originally May 11, 1975, has been postponed to October 31,
1975. The major outstanding condition is completion of arrangements with
management assistance consultants. A firm has been selected and contract
negotiations took place in mid-September. However, the negotiated contract
is subject to Government approval.   Representatives of the firm have been
invited to come to Dacca :Ln mid-October to complete contractual arrangements.
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:   US$15 Million Credit of February 11,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Credit became effective on September 25, 1975. Notwithstanding
the delay in declaring the Credit effective, the Government has made substan-
tial progress in project implementation. The organizational structure of
the Population Control and Family Planning Division (body responsible for
the population program) has been defined and its staff is being placed in
position. The Population Program Officers, who are responsible for the
population programs of five non-health ministries, have been trained abroad
and have initiated the schemes of their respective ministries. Negotiations
with the architectural consultants for the Building, Planning and Design
Unit of the Ministry of Health are in progress and agreement on a contract
is expected shortly. The Government is proceeding with the selection of
required consultants and advisors for other parts of the project. However,
because of institutional problems, the implementation of a few project
components is some months behind schedule. In particular, the Government
has still to formally appoint a number of key personnel, including the
Population Program Officers. Another important pending issue is the final-
ization by the Government of financing arrangements with two co-lenders.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:   US$27 Million of April 29,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Credit became effective on September 30, 1975.



ANNEX III
BANGLADESH
FOURTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:                  US$100 million equivalent-/
Terms:                   Standard
Project Description:     To make available foreign exchange for the import
of industrial components, chemicals, raw
materials, spare parts and packing materials to
enable selected high priority industries to maintain
or expand their production.
Procurement
Arrangements:          Approximately 80 percent of imports financed by the
Association will be procured by the Trading Corpora-
tion of Bangladesh and by the nationalized Sector
Corporations on behalf of industrial enterprises.
For procurement of all goods exceeding US$100,000
(except for proprietary items) offers from a minimum
of three suppliers will be invited. For imports
under US$100,000 normal commercial channels will be
used. Eligible industries are shown in Annex IV.
Estimated
Disbursements:                                        FY76     FY77    FY78
First Quarter                     0       15       5
Second Quarter                   25       10       0
Third Quarter                    15       10
Fourth Quarter                   15        5
55       40       5
1/   Agreement and finalization of the action programs on jute and textile
to be condition of disbursement of US$75 million of the proposed
credit.



ANNEX IV
BANGLADESH
PROPOSED CATEGORIES AND CEILINGS
FOURTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Annual Impoyt    Maximum Amount of the
CATEGORY                       Requirement-a    Credit to be Withdrawn
(in US$ million)
(A) Industry: raw materials, spare
parts, chemicals, components and
packaging materials for:
1.   Jute Industry                       20.0                15
2.   Textile Industry                    85.0                50
3.   Fertilizer Industry                 25.0                10.0
4.   Paper and Board Industry            25.0                  9.0
5.   Chemical and Pharmaceutical
Industry (including only
manufacture of industrial
chemicals, glass, soap and
pharmaceuticals)                  57.0                25.0
6.   Sugar Industry (not including
the beverage industry)             3.5                 2.5
7.   Steel and Foundry Industry          55.0                 20.0
8.   The following export-oriented
industries: tea, processing
of shrimp, fish and frog
legs, and leather                 12.0                 5.0
9.   Commercial Vehicles Industry
(including spare parts)           10.0                 3.0
(B) 10.   Construction Activities             35.0                19.0
Raw materials for cement and
cement manufacture including
packaging materials and spare
parts and other intermediate
building materials
Totals                  327.5               158.5
/a   Calculated from appraisal mission estimates of production targets which
would be achievable, given current market and industrial operating
conditions, if sufficient foreign exchange were available for inputs
and spare parts.



ANNEX V
Page 1 of 8
PROSPECTS FOR INDIVIDUAL INDUSTRIAL BRANCHES
A. Introduction
In Part III of the main body of this report, some general observa-
tions have been made on the current situation and prospects for industry in
Bangladesh in 1975/76. This annex provides further details on selected
principal branches. Annexes VI and VII provide a summary of the in-depth
studies of jute and cotton textiles. Because of the urgent need to expand
exports in the short and medium term, and the recent exchange adjustment which
has improved the external competitive position of many Bangladesh products,
emphasis is given below to certain sub-sectors based primarily on local
raw materials other than jute which have that potential. The final part of
this Annex provides a review of those sub-sectors which are producing z.s-
sentially for the domestic market and which are receiving IDA assistance for
their import requirements. In the face of balance of payments obstacles and
under-utilized capacity, attention has been given by the Government to various
export promotion schemes. In October 1974, the existing policy for limited
cash subsidies for certain exports was expanded, covering additional products
and raising the percentages generally to 30% and as much as 40% higher for a
few items.
In addition, certain industries could get rebates on import taxes
paid for selected imported components such as packaging materials and che-
micals. Finally, the exchange control authorities agreed to set aside the
required foreign exchange to permit operation of an export performance in-
centive system whereby exporters of selected products could receive add-
itional import licenses for a specified percentage of the value of their
goods shipped, based on the import content of these products.
Data to permit an analysis of the effectiveness of these various
schemes are limited. Based on discussions with enterprise managers in
both the public and private sector, the cash subsidies, as would be expected,
had very quick results in helping a number of local products compete in
world markets. But rising domestic costs, as well as softness in world
markets (reflected in declining prices) for consumer and a number of inter-
mediate goods which Bangladesh exported, made these subsidies of limited use
at the time. Since the devaluation in May 1975, they have been eliminated.
On the other hand, the export performance scheme has proven and
continues to be particularly beneficial to the expansion of tanned leather
exports. A portion of the additional foreign exchange earned by these
enterprises has been used to import some of the equipment needed to increase
the degree of processing, from "wet-blue" to tanned leather, a favorable
trend noted in the text.



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 8
B. Non-lute Export-oriented Industries
Paper and Cellulose
Production in the paper and cellulose industry on balance appears
to have improved in 1974/75 over the previous year. The two principal pro-
ducts, newsprint and paper, continue to experience considerable difficulties
in more effective utilization of capacity due to equipment problems arising
from past periods of neglect of maintenance. In addition, the shortage of
imported chemical pulp (representing 10-20% of their raw materials inputs)
limited output in the first half of the year; improved supply of this pulp,
due to the easing in world market conditions in recent months, has helped to
achieve expansion in output. Similarly production of hardboard and particle
board has been limited by the shortage of imported chemicals.    On the other
hand in the case of rayon and cellophane, the bulk of whose output is ex-
ported, output has been constrained by weakening in external demand.
Production of newsprint and mechanical printing paper in the six
months period ending December 1974 was 15% higher than in the corresponding
period in 1973; present indications are that production in the second half
of the fiscal year 1974/75 (i.e. January through June, 1975) shall show a
further expansion. Nevertheless, the expected output of 32,000 tons is well
below rated capacity of 50,000 tons. The major problems facing the newsprint
plant at Khulna have been in boiler operation and power supply; in mid-1974
lack of imported chemical pulp also served to curtail output. A new boiler
is expected to be installed in 1976 which should permit the mill to reach
full production.
Although there has recently been a slump in the world market for
newsprint, export prospects remain high providing that the plant can meet
the quality and price requirements. For the six months period ending
December 1974, the volume of exports was double that of the corresponding
period of the previous year; the value, at $4 million, had exceeded the
value of exports in the full year 1973/74 ($3.3 million). Related to the
question of newsprint supplies available for export is price policy. The
Government continues to fix the domestic price considerably below the cost
of production, as well as below the export price; it has, however, adopted
an allotment system, fixing a quota for supplies to be made available for
domestic use and the balance of production being made available for export.
At the time of the visit of the appraisal mission (March 1975),
export prices were roughly equivalent to the cost of production (after
taking account of certain tax rebates). Recently there has been some
decline in world market prices and more attention is being paid to quality
requirements by external buyers as a result of some slackening of demand.
The May exchange adjustment will permit competitive prices and should
improve export prospects. The principal market in the past has been India
but purchases by that country have declined, apparently reflecting some
inventory adjustments, and the Government has been actively seeking markets
in other nearby areas.



ANNEX V
Page 3 of 8
Production of paper was adversely affected by mechanical problems
in the Karnaphuli paper mills so that in the six month period ending
December 1974 there had been a decline of 7% in output as compared to the
same period in 1973. Moreover, during that period the mill had not received
any imported chemical pulp which it requires for effective operation. How-
ever, by early 1975 considerable progress was made in overcoming mechanical
difficulties and some easing of the imported raw material position was
achieved; thus production for 1974/75 is expected to exceed slightly the
level obtaining in the previous fiscal year.
The mill has also been undertaking some efforts at exporting
certain quality papers and the value of those sales in the six-month period,
July through December 1974, was equal to the total for the full year 1973/74.
The recovery in output which is now underway is expected to provide addi-
tional supplies for overseas sales. In this connection, an extensive study
of rehabilitation and possible expansion of the mill has been approved for
financing under the IDA Technical Assistance Credit (409-BD); this study
would include analysis of both domestic and foreign markets.
The North Bengal paper mill at Pabna which had begun trial pro-
duction in December 1973 experienced difficulties in initiating output.
However, starting up difficulties have now been largely eliminated and pro-
duction for sale is expected before the end of the fiscal year 1974/75.
Production of hardboard and particle board during the period July
through December 1974 was below that obtaining in corresponding period of
the previous year; in the case of the former by 9% and the latter, by 39%.
In both instances the main problem has been the shortage of imported chemical
raw materials. As a result of the production shortfall there has been a fall
in exports of hardboard. In addition, rising domestic costs of production
and the softness in the markets for this product in the nearby countries
adversely affect sales efforts but it is now hoped to regain these markets.
Rayon production represents a very special problem due to the
technical characteristic of the product, an endless filament yarn which
was originally designed for export to West Pakistan. This particular item
is not suitable for the bulk of the power looms in Bangladesh and is used
primarily by handloom weavers. In 1974, due to heavy demand for textile
fibers in world markets, a considerable export was undertaken, accounting
for almost 45% of output and capacity. By the end of the year exports had
all but disappeared and production levels at the rayon mill in early 1975
represented less than 50% of capacity.
As already noted, while the paper and cellulose production of the
country is primarily based upon local fibrous raw materials, there is need
for certain critical imported chemical pulps to obtain proper quality pro-
ducts as well as to permit efficient operation of paper making machines.
It is hoped to reduce some of these import requirements by shifting to a
chemical pulp based on bamboo to be produced at a mill in Sylhet which
started trial production in March 1975; this plant is designed to produce
30,000 tons of pulp. Tests are currently being carried out to determine



ANNEX V
Page 4 of 8
whether the particular pulp produced can be used at the paper and newsprint
mills or what adaptations might be required for optimum import substitution.
Tanning Industry
The tanning industry consists of 24 plants under the public sector
corporation and about 180 registered private units, mainly located in Dacca
and Chittagong. The latter enterprises are relatively small but among the
former are a number of larger and more modern plants which were "abandoned"
by the previous non-Bengali owners.
The private sector plants have undergone a period of considerable
growth in recent years. Prior to independence they exported a relatively
simply processed product ("wet-blue" leather) to West Pakistan where it was
further processed. Not only have these enterprises been able to shift their
exports to other areas but they have increased substantially the degree of
processing and are now shipping a larger proportion in the form of simply
tanned leather. In the six month period ending December 1974 the value of
their exports was almost equal to the value recorded in the full fiscal year
1973/74.
The bulk of these exports is based upon goat skins. World demand
for this particular type of leather has been more stable than for cow hides,
although in recent months prices have tended to decline. Exports from
Bangladesh benefited from a number of export incentive schemes including,
from October 1974 through Hay 1975, a cash subsidy of 30% for tanned leather;
no such subsidy, however, was given to exporters of "wet-blue" leather.
Another incentive which has been maintained is the system of performance
licenses which are given to exporters, equivalent to the import content of
their external sales; these are in addition to their normal import entitle-
ments. A number of enterprises in the private sector have used these per-
formance licenses to import equipment for further processing.
In the medium term export prospects for tanned leather from goat-
skins remain buoyant. On the production side there is considerable under-
tulized capacity, particularly in the public sector tanneries. It should
be noted, however, that the latter enterprises will require major restruc-
turing in view of the lack of experience of the current management and
technical staff who had to take over when the previous owners and personnel
left. In addition, a number of these plants, including some of the newest
and most modern, will require major overhaul in view of the damage suffered
during independence as well as the neglect of maintenance in recent years.
In spite of the fact that the capacity of the public sector enterprises is
estimated to be roughly the same as that of the private sector enterprises,
the latter now account for at least two-thirds of output and exports.
Longer-term growth prospects will depend largely upon measures
taken to improve the supply of raw hides. In this connection there are
two sources of improvement which need to be explored. The first would be
improvement in slaughtering techniques where the inefficient methods now



ANNEX V
Page 5 of 8
used are estimated to result in losses of almost one-third of the hide area.
The second would be the possible expansion of goat herds and improvement in
such matters as breeding and animal husbandry.
In addition to increasing the degree of processing as a means of
obtaining higher foreign exchange earnings, there is also the possibility
of producing and exporting leather goods. Developed countries are turning
to a greater extent to the developing countries as sources of supply for
products such as leather clothing, leather handbags and leather accessories,
in view of the higher labor content in the production of these items. There
already has been some experience in Bangladesh with importers from the
industrialized countries contracting for the shipment of Bengali leather
to other developing countries where the final products are made. The growth
of these kinds of industries in Bangladesh will depend upon the development
of skilled labor with high productivity.
Tea
Tea production and export in 1974/75 continue to show improvement
since the low point reached in the period immediately after independence.
Production for this year 1974/75 is estimated at 72 million pounds with
exports expected to reach a level of 60 million pounds, valued at $20 million.
In 1973/74 exports were about 50 million pounds valued at $15 million. There
is considerable scope for improvement in the industry and for further ex-
pansion in exports, given the world market conditions expected for this
product. Average yield in Bangladesh is 700 pounds per acre as compared to
1200 pounds in India. This low yield can be attributed to the lesser
density in most gardens, a preponderance of bushes more than 60 years old,
and low labor productivity.
Sugar Industry
The sugar industry, consisting of 15 sugar mills with annual capa-
city of 169,000 tons, has shown significant improvement in production from
19,000 tons in 1972/73 to almost 100,000 tons in 1974/75, close to the record
achieved in 1966/67. Exportable surplus in 1974/75 is estimated at 30,000
tons of sugar and 20,000 tons of molasses. The production target for 1975/76
is set at 140,000 tons.
Yet the industry is faced with the problem of low productivity at
both plantation and refinery levels. Plantation yield is estimated at 15 tons
per acre and recovery rate at the refinery at 7.5%, which are very low by
world standards. Several programs to expand cane output and improve the
quality of cane, including modernization of plantations controlled by the
sugar mills and the possible establishment of a Sugarcane Research Institute,
have been formulated but are yet to be financed.
One important variable determining availability of sugarcane for
refinery production is the purchase price of sugarcane set by the Government
since not only areas for sugarcane plantation, but sugarcane itself, have



ANNEX V
Page 6 of 8
alternative uses. Thus, the purchase price of sugarcane should be suffi-
ciently high enough to be competitive with rice cultivation and "gurh" making.
In February 1975 the Government announced an increase in the purchase price
for the 1975/76 crop from Tk/8 per maund to Tk/10 per maund. At present, the
principal use of sugarcane is for producing gurh, a raw sugar produced by
small milling/boiling units at the farm level. This is the main form in
which sugar is consumed by the 90% of the population in the rural economy.
While refined sugar has been subject to price controls, prices for gurh
reflect free market conditions; cane farms in the past have tended to limit
their sales to refineries when conversion of cane to gurh has been more
profitable.
C. Import Substitution Industries
Steel Industry
The output of the steel industry in 1974/75 is not expected to
exceed the level achieved in the previous year. Based almost completely on
imported raw materials, the industry has been particularly sensitive to
availability of foreign exchange. Output in the period January through
June 1974 had reached record levels as a number of obstacles to utilization
of capacity were removed, particularly the easing of labor unrest. However
the further deterioration in the country's balance of payments position
early in 1974 led to reduced exchange allocations and a fall off in the flow
of raw materials which limited output after July 1974.
The increased exchange allocations which have been provided
recently, as well as the reduction in waiting periods for key imports which
previously were in tight supply in world markets, indicate that production
in 1975/76 can be expected to be considerably higher than in the previous
two years. With a large proportion of output used in construction and with
a substantial rise expected in that activity as cement supplies also improve,
demand is unlikely to be a constraint for the sub-sector as a whole.
Nevertheless there remain numerous problemns to be solved to achieve
in the longer-run efficient use of existing capacity. The single most import-
ant enterprise in the sub-sector is the Chittagong Steel Mill (CSM) with
250,000 tons rated capacity for billet production based on pig iron and
scrap; but there are serious design deficiencies which would require some
reconstruction of the mill area if that level is to be obtained. In addition,
the mill has equipment to produce 65,000 tons of sheet (of which 50,000 tons
is linked to the Galvanizing Shop) and 57,000 tons of heavy plate. The
capacity was designed to meet some of the needs of West Pakistan and exceeds
substantially the current Bengali market. The Government is proposing to
undertake a feasibility study to examine both the technical and market
problems to be solved to achieve most efficient use of this plant.



ANNEX V
Page 7 of 8
Beside CSM, there are a number of re-rolling mills in both the
public and private sectors; the public sector corporation controls 17 mills
with re-rolling capacity of some 100,000 tons. The output mix of these
different plants varies from steel bars and shapes for construction to steel
bolts and nuts. It was expected that some of the steel billet needs for
these enterprises would have been met from output of CSM. In the last few
years, however, that mill has required practically all of its billet output
and the other mills have had to rely mainly in imports to meet their needs.
Foreign exchange allocations have been limited and output in 1974/75 has
only been at 25% of capacity.
Cement Industry
With the initiation of production at the clinker grinding plant in
July 1974 and the firming up of arrangements with India to guarantee lime-
stone supplies for the plant at Chattak, cement output in 1974/75 is expected
to reach 150,000 tons, more than twice the highest amount previously produced
in the country. Nevertheless, substantial imports of the finished product
are still needed; "normal" requirements for what is now Bangladesh have been
estimated at 1 million tons but in the last few years available supplies do
not appear to have exceeded 500,000 tons per annum.
The plant at Chattak, which was first opened in the late 1930's,
was historically based on limestone supplies from a quarry 10 miles away but
on the Indian side of the frontier. This trade was disrupted for various
periods of time following partition in 1947 and was completely cut off in
1965. During this interruption, a small level of output was based on poor
quality local limestone available at considerable distance. After negotiations
following upon independence, an agreement has now been reached with the Indian
authorities to resume limestone deliveries. These are transported by a rope
conveyor system directly from the quarry to the plant.
Capacity of the plant is currently estimated at 90,000 tons but
there are plans to replace some of the obsolete equipment and to raise capa-
city by an additional 60 to 90 thousand tons.
Construction of the clinker grinding plant at Chittagong was begun
in 1967 but due to the disruption and damage resulting from the independence
war, it was not possible to begin production until July 1974. Plant capacity
is estimated at 300,000 tons. Collapse of a conveyor belt shortly after
initiation has limited the raw material flow and production has been substan-
tially below capacity. The belt system is expected to be fully replaced by
mid-1975 so that production for 1975/76 could reach 50% of capacity, pro-
viding that imports of clinker can be arranged in a timely manner. Gypsum
requirements are being met from the nearby triple-superphosphate (TSP) plant.
Fertilizers
Production of fertilizer during 1974/75 dropped sharply from the
previous high levels as a result of an explosion at the major Ghorasal urea
plant in September 1974. In addition, mechanical problems impeded the



ANNEX V
Page 8 of 8
initial year of production at the two TSP plants. The former installation
(using the locally available natural gas) did not resume production until
mid-1975. The smaller urea plant at Fenchuganj is over-age and requires
major overhaul before it can resume full operation and its output for 1974/75
is expected to be less than half of its capacity. A small ammonia sulphate
plant has also experienced operational problems and its output is expected to
be half of the level achieved last year.
One 120,000 ton capacity triple superphosphate (TSP) plant based
on imported rock phosphate and sulfur began trial production in July 1974
and actual production in September of the same year. Various difficulties
in operation, including an operational failure in February 1975 which stopped
production for almost six weeks, have curtailed output and for 1974/75 total
production is expected to be around 35,000 tons. A second 32,000 ton plant
which has not yet solved initial mechanical difficulties, has not yet
initiated production.
For 1975/76 it is hoped to achieve more normal rates of output in
most of the fertilizer plants. Necessary repairs have been completed at
Ghorasol. It has been agreed that IDA would assist in financing under the
Technical Assistance Crediit (409-BD) Consultants to assist the public sector
corporation controlling these enterprises in improving maintenance procedures
and spare parts inventories. It is hoped to implement the Fenchugonj over-
haul during the year.
For the longer-run, a considerable element in the general develop-
ment strategy of the country is the expansion of urea fertilizer production
based on the natural gas resources of the country. The Ashuganj fertilizer
project, capable of producing some 500,000 tons of urea per annum, with
financial assistance from IDA and six other bilateral and multilateral donors,
is scheduled to begin production in 1978. In addition, two export-oriented
projects have been studied and negotiations with possible donors are cur-
rently underway.



snex v
Table 1
FOL.TH1 tMIU'STRIAL ItS    CtIDtT
n      s00C11  TRWE (V srLrcTED PISLIC SECem INDUSTRISIc
D0       ~        ~~~~~~~ )1D7X/            W4HS74/75                                          S     ~     .
ItlDUSSY                                   Untt                        (ee eY_                                           ltL)              k                                  g
Jute Mbaufaeturee                                1,000 tems                      S1 500                                           4S                        0                          1.2
?entile..
yarn                                         millItn lbs.          t0                                  91                      92.0                     tO1                         1.1
Cloth                                        wilIlt. yds.                     59                       79                 S      .0                    1t00                         7.6
Steel
Iegot                                        1.000 em                         54                       74                      70.4                     00                          3.2
HR.'  and Thin n Ptes, and  heets            1.000 tow                        12.4                     17.1                    1t.4                     26.0                       -9.,
nIg1esr tng
Comsrctsl Vebicles                               ere                         4355                   2.038                   L,295                    2.200                         -37.'
01e.el Engines           -                       nbers                     1.28                     1.720                   ).173                   4.200                          200.8
Calvenised Iron andSteel Pipes                  tons                       S.134                    5.1                     2.                       3,000                         -27.2
lriting and Printing Ptper                   1.000 tm,                        31                       24                      26.0                     34                           5.1
lWesprint                                   1000 tong                        36                       20                      33.0                     35                          26.9
Particle Board                                  tons                       5,422                    2.040                  2.10t                     3000                            5.2
Hardbuard                                    iltitwn sq. ft.                  15.1                     15.7                    13.4                     16.2                        t-.9
Rayon Yarn                                      Ceon                       2. 747                   2.11                    1.t20                    2.400                         .23.2
9ertilixer
Urea                                         1,000 tons                       96                      279                      e9.0                    325                         -75.3
unfit Sulfat                                 1.000 tow                         4.7                     10.3                     3.0                     10.0                       -51.3
Yheysceutieals
tablets                                      million n.7                                              198 ts                  233.2                    293                          27.9
LiquId Nedlenel                              nillIna bottles                   3.7                      4.5                     5.1                      6.9                        13.3
C   tle Sheet                                     tillen eq. ft.                  5.5                      5.7                   5i.                        7.3                         0.0
Sneps                                           1t000 tons                         8.3                     10.6                    3.6                      16.9                       -45.5
F dible  ll  d    e                          1     t000 em                    11                       19                      13.8                     27                         -27.4
Fish Prucs    t! ooe bs.                                                   2.302                    3.009                   2.042                   3S400                          -11.5
Tobacco                                      cUlttl    staces              1.21                     1. I00                  1.714                    1.390                         0S.8
Sugar                                            1.000 tons                                                a 88                    "A                      133                          11.4
Ceemt                                            1,000 oes                       40                        St                     14)                     2i0                          100.4
*P rocessLig of shrimp And frog lop.
or.ueura  Plaming Cmiseesion, Itatioalisd Industrie DUtyteo. sad SurOft -f StathOtlee e theo V11e 2406lc ef IBnglte*sh.
'.A.itrtal Nrejecte Departwet



ANNEX VI
Page 1Tof 6
THE JUTE INDUSTRY -/
i.        Short and medium-term improvements in the balance of payments
gap of Bangladesh rest heavily on measures taken by the Government to
revitalize its trade in jute, which, in both raw and manufactured forms,
currently accounts for more than 80% of its total exports. Recent measures
have improved the competitive position of raw jute in comparison with
synthetic fibers, but substantial measures are still needed to improve the
performance of the manufacturing sector which has lost ground both in
absolute and in relative terms as compared to other jute and hard fiber
exporting countries.
ii.       The world wide stagnation in jute demand during the last 15 years
reflects the appearance of synthetic competitive fabrics and fibers whose
prices have been generally lower than those of jute products; and the
changes in transport and handling techniques which have reduced the use
of packaging materials. In spite of the increases which are competitive with
jute in crude petroleum prices, the synthetic items based on that commodity
have increased very little in price. Extrapolation of present market trends,
beset by some uncertainty due to the current recession, indicate only slight
growth in total demand for jute products in the period through 1980. Never-
theless, Bank studies have shown that consumption of hard fibers such as jute
and synthetics are price elastic, and that a well-organized jute price strategy
could change the previous trend.
iii.      As a result of the exchange adjustment introduced in May 1975,
substantial reductions in external prices for most jute products are pos-
sible while at the same time operating deficits of the mills can be elimina-
ted. Nevertheless, in order to ensure the future viability of the industry
and to take fullest advantage of the opportunities offered, measures
must now be taken to improve performance, including a broad rehabilitation
program designed to reduce costs, improve quality standards, and develop
more effective marketing techniques.
iv.       The rehabilitation program recommended would involve a series
of simultaneous steps in the areas of marketing, production planning and
management of mill operations. To implement the steps recommended it would
be necessary to reorganize the present Bangladesh Jute Industry Corporation
(BJIC), the public sector agency which controls all jute mills in the
country (77 units as of June 1975). This would involve strengthening the
policy and production planning functions of the Corporation; mill managers
would be given wider autonomy and would be held responsible for the daily
operations of their enterprises.
1/   Summary of Conclusions and Principal Recommendations from the special
study undertaken of the Jute Industry, Report No. 883-BD Part I.



ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 6
v.        On the marketing side, it appears necessary to strengthen the
marketing services of the Corporation to enable it to undertake certain
central functions critical in the development of a more aggressive
marketing strategy. These would include market research, broader marketing
information collection, overseas promotion and exporting offices in a few
selected major importing centers. As regards sales, the present approach
is to provide a flexible structure to meet the requirements and preferences
of individual buyers; a number of larger mills, as well as groups of smaller
ones, have been given autonomy in sales while orders received directly by
the Corporation are being assigned, after consultation with the buyers,
to individual mills. The mills have to equip themselves to improve customer
services, to respond more efficiently to buyer enquiries and requests for
information such as shipping dates, etc. There is urgent need for the
Marketing Directorate to make a detailed study of the current or short-
term world market for the major jute products. This should be followed
by studies of longer-term prospects. Since production planning requires
specific product information, the timing of this work would be coordinated
with the preparation of annual and longer-production programs described
below.
vi.       BJIC should establish a Production Planning Directorate as there
is at present considerable uncertainty over production control among the
mills. Insufficient direction has been provided to mills to encourage pro-
duction of specific jute goods for which demand prospects appear favorable
either in the long or short term or to discourage production of those items
where market conditions are less favorable. To a great extent mill managers
have chosen to produce those items which raise fewest problems in manufacture
rather than produce in response to market demand or trends. The net result
is inventory accumulation of a number of goods with limited sales potential
and shortages of items in relatively good demand. The Corporation has not
had the information base required to permit the development of a production
strategy to meet actual and expected future demand, including control over
inventory accumulation in the desired direction. Thus the principal task
of the production planning directorate would be to develop production
programs for the sector, with specific targets by product lines for in-
dividual mills, established on the basis of production capabilities of
the mills, demand forecasts and the financial resources available to the
Corporation. While these targets would be prepared on an annual basis,
they would be subject to systematic monthly reviews to permit modifications
in the light of any new developments.
vii.      In order to prepare this plan, it will be necessary to compile
an inventory of the productive capacity of each mill for specific types of
products and to have an assessment by each mill manager of production
capability. This work could be started immediately and it is envisaged
that complete data could be available within about six months, by the end
of March 1976. At that time the Marketing Directorate would have completed
its short-term detailed market analysis. The production planning group
would then reconcile these two elements to provide a sector-wide production
program with preliminary output targets for individual mills in accordance



ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 6
with their capabilities, and overall targets consistent with demand expect-
ations, and financial projections.   One of the objectives of this exercise
would be to achieve specialization among the mills. The targets would be
reviewed with the mill managers to assure understanding and agreement and,
after any required revision, would be established as the annual production
program.  It is envisaged that the 1976/77 plan would be formulated prior
to July 1976 which is the beginning of the fiscal year.
viii.     For fiscal 1975/76, only very broad production targets have been
set by BJIC, with mills expected to reach them on an ad hoc basis depending on
the flow of orders.  In the absence of the detailed data required for
setting up a comprehensive production plan, as outlined in the previous
paragraph, the Corporation should nevertheless prepare by December 1975 a
program for the second half of the fiscal year, in accordance with the
information already available to it, and should set targets for mills in
accordance with current expectations of their capability and demand.
ix.       The Production Planning Directorate should also prepare a longer-
term development program for the industry which would reflect the longer-
term demand forecasts of the Marketing Directorate. This program would
set out the anticipated capacity requirements and analyze existing capacity
in the light of these needs. The analysis would then permit evaluation of the
balancing, modernization and rehabilitation (BMR) programs which have been
set up for 19 existing mills and the 8 new mills (or expansions) which have
been under construction for a number of years but which have not yet been
completed.  In the light of the review of demand and current production
capability contained in the longer-term production plan, conclusions should
emerge regarding necessary changes in capacity. The Finance Directorate
should prepare before the end of calendar year 1975 a financial projection
for the fiscal year 1975/76. Full financial statements and accounts for
1974/75 should be prepared by March 31, 1976. The Directorate would parti-
cipate in longer-term production planning through the preparation of appro-
priate financial projections.
x.        The Corporation should accelerate the preparation of balance sheets
reflecting the true asset positions of the individual mills, for purposes
of proper financial control. A Cabinet Committee is currently reviewing the
financial position of all public sector corporations with a view to their
financial restructuring. The Government should provide additional equity
to BJIC to ensure an appropriate debt:equity ratio, which would permit
reduction of debt service charges which have in the past contributed to the
high costs of manufactured jute products, and in turn to the large deficits
incurred by the Corporation which have required further bank borrowing and
Government subsidies.
xi.       To improve production performance at the mill level, it will be
necesary to undertake a series of assistance programs concentrating on those
areas which have adversely affected capacity utilization and increased
production costs. In the first phase, emphasis would be put on developing
in individual mills appropriate maintenance programs, the lack of which has
been one of the major factors contributing to production difficulties.



ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 6
For this purpose the Technical Directorate of BJIC should organize in
each of the four zones (excluding Adamjee) a maintenance task force com-
prising one expatriate expert and two local counterparts; one of the latter
would be the zonal maintenance engineer, and the other would be drawn from
among senior mill production staff who have demonstrated competence in this
area. The task force would: (a) appraise the existing system in each mill
for preventive maintenance programs and make recommendations for improvement;
(b) assist in setting up the necessary equipment inventories; and (c) if
necessary, assist in implementation of recommendations. It is envisaged
that within each zone at least four mills could be analyzed nine months after
the services of the international experts have been obtaiued and by the end
of 18 months the recommended improved systems would be in full operation.
The assessment should gradually be extended to other mills. The directorate
should organize its program so that in the first phase the 16 mills covered
should account for at least 40% of loomage; this is a realistic target since
50% of total existing looms (excluding Adamjee) are to be found in 15 mills.
xii.      Another essential element in this urgent phase is the organization
within the Technical Directorate of a spare parts division which would
assess the capacity within the country to meet spare parts needs for jute
manufacturing and develop a program to meet those needs. This group should
be established using necessary expatriate technical assistance in organizing
its work as well as in the early stages of implementation of its program;
it is anticipated that this can be achieved with a preliminary work program
ready within nine months. A number of mills, particularly the larger ones,
have workshops which can supply all but the most sophisticated parts and
there are enterprises within the private sector and the Bangladesh Engineer-
ing and Shipbuilding Corporation (BESC) which can produce parts as well
as complete looms. The BJIC group would represent that agency in a com-
mittee established in the Ministry of Industries to deal with this problem;
this committee would have to be revitalized.
xiii.     More comprehensive assistance to improving productivity will
be undertaken in a second phase which would involve the organization of
productivity advisory teams in each zone to review all aspects of production
at the level of individual mills. Each team would be composed of an ex-
patriate jute production expert and two local counterparts, one of which
would be the Chief Production Engineer for the zone and the second would
be drawn from senior production staff of the Corporation on a rotating basis.
During these studies attention would be paid to labor use and costs, raw
material preparation, problems in operation of equipment, etc. The teams
should provide detailed recommendations to mill management on specific
measures of assistance, including various training needs which could be
provided within the plant or which would be best provided in central loca-
tions to serve several mills. BJIC should ensure that the 16 mills covered
during the first period of this work should encompass at least 40% of total
loomage of the industry (excluding Adamjee).
xiv.      Aside from other elements mentioned earlier, operational autonomy
of the individual mill managers should be increased in such matters as pur-
chasing of raw jute, personnel management and local procurement. In general,



ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 6
the performance of mill managers needs to be underpinned by management
assistance programs. It is also necessary to establish an appropriate
system of incentives for management.
xv.       At the present time, in the case of hessian and sacking (narrow
looms), mills are expected, in principle, to follow the practice of 100%
visual inspection at one of the final stages in manufacturing. However,
due to inadequate supervision, this is not being done in all the mills.
Mill managers must take steps to ensure proper performance of supervisory
responsibilities in this regard. In the case of carpet backing (broad
looms), 100% visual inspection is possible only if special facilities are
provided; currently these exist in only two carpet backing mills. They
should be extended to all mills producing carpet backing, in order that
manual repair can be made of all defects in excess of the limits acceptable
to trade.
xvi.      An independent export inspection service should be set up outside
the jurisdiction of BJIC which would be responsible for pre-shipping inspection
and certification of all export goods to ensure conformity with contract
specifications.
xvii.     The current performance bonus system applied to piece workers in
the mills has not been effective and should be restructured. The present
high percentage of absenteeism of permanent workers, especially during har-
vesting and new planting seasons, interferes with achieving better machine
performance and a more effective production bonus system may help to remove
this bottleneck. It is essential that production standards used as the
basis for applying the system at the level of the individual mill reflect
not the average output for the industry but rather the technical character-
istics of the particular types of machines determining their potential out-
put. This will require more detailed surveys of the machines in use to fix
the standards according to types. Effective use of the bonus system also
requires recognition on the part of the authorities concerned that, while
the average standard for the industry may be reduced in the short term which
would result in some immediate increase in labor costs per unit of output,
in the longer run substantial cost reduction may be obtained by reducing
absenteeism.
xviii.    The audit division within BJIC's Finance Directorate should ex-
pand its functions to include checking accuracy and completeness of data for
the mills and in general should promote effective cost control procedures.
xix.      The Ministry of Jute should keep under review the functioning of
the four raw jute marketing corporations to ensure efficient distribution of
raw jute, both for export and to the mills. Steps taken in recent months
have substantially reduced overlapping and wasteful procedures but further
consolidation of the purchasing agencies may be advisable.    Moreover, con-
sideration should be given to direct purchases from farmers as a means of
reducing the gap between millgate and farmgate prices. The Government should
keep the Association informed of the measures taken in these matters including
those measure relating to jute trading in the private sector. The Ministry



ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 6
should also improve the collection of basic data on acreage under cultivation,
yields and cultivation costs.
xx.       To obtain the external assistance required to implement the pro-
gram, the following steps are suggested. The first phase (would comprise
the organization of maintenance task forces and of a spare parts division
within the Technical Directorate of BJIC). The maintenance task force would
require 36 man-months of assistance while the spare parts program would require
1 expert for 12 months in this first phase, making a total of 48 man-months -
of experts time. The experts would be obtained through an experienced
engineering consulting firm (the foreign exchange costs are estimated at
about US$300,000). The Government should endeavor to have the experts in the
field prior to March 31, 1976; it could make use of the Association's Tech-
nical Assistance Project Credit (409-BD) to finance the foreign exchange
costs.
xxi.      The second phase comprises more comprehensive expatriate assistance
for improving productivity, assisting in organizing the work of the produc-
tion planning directorate and advising in the reorganization and strengthen-
ing of the marketing directorate. The Government has been negotiating with
UNDP/UNIDO for a project to assist the jute sector and it is envisaged that
a program acceptable to the Bank would be developed. The scope of the
program would provide assistance in critical areas such as quality control
administration, cost accounting and financial planning, and include training
both locally and abroad in all of the fields which have been enumerated.
Moreover, funds made available under a UNDP project could finance laboratory
equipment for quality control centers and training materials.



ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 4
THE COTTON TEXTILE iNDUSTRY -/
i.        With very limited domestic production of raw cotton and man-made
fibers, the textile industry of Bangladesh is almost completely dependent
upon imports of raw cotton and yarn, as well as some cloth, to meet the
country's clothing consumption requirements. Textiles represent the third
major import category, following food and petroleum.
ii.       The major textile mills are currently under government ownership
and controlled by the Bangladesh Textile Industries Corporation (BTIC) with-
in the Ministry of Industries. At the present time (July 1975) there are
48 mills producing yarn of which 24 also have some weaving capacity; the
Corporation also controls 10 mills producing specialized products, e.g.
clothing.
iii.      Bangladesh ranks as one of the lowest among developing countries
in terms of clothing consumption. During the pre-independence period it
averaged under 7 yds per capita per year, compared with about 20 yds. per
capita in other South Asian countries. Since independence, the disruption
in production and the shortage of foreign exchange have resulted in con-
sumption somewhat below the pre-1971 level. About 70% of the cloth consumed
in Bangladesh is woven on handlooms, with power looms producing about 15-20%
of available supply, and imports of cloth or clothing providing another 10-
15%. In recent years, the domestic spinning mills have been able to provide
80-90% of yarn requirements and the remainder was imported.
iv.       This review focuses on the spinning industry, whose raw cotton
imports now represent the bulk of the country's foreign exchange outlay for
textiles. Under current conditions there are advantages in retaining hand--
looms as the principal means of weaving cloth for domestic needs, particu-
larly in view of the apparent excess capacity that already exists, and the
considerable employment provided by the industry.
v.        The condition of the spinning equipment shows wide divergencies;
eight mills were established prior to 1947 and much of their machinery is
now obsolete. From 1947 through 1961 another eight mills were established;
some of their equipment is also obsolete or was so badly damaged during
hostilities as to be practically useless. Twenty five mills were constructed
after 1960, and the bulk of their machinery appears to be in fair condition.
Three mills, whose construction began prior to 1971, were completed during
1973/74 and are new for all practical purposes; four new mills were brought
into operations in 1974/75.
1/   Summary of Conclusions and Principal Recommendations from the special
study undertaken of the Cotton Textile Industry, Report No. 883-BD Part I.



ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 4
vi.       At present, about 25% of installed capacity is inoperable.    The
productivity of the spindles in use is still below that achieved in pre-
independence days, although there has been considerable improvement in the
past three years; lack of spare parts and inadequate maintenance procedures
are the main factors responsible for the low productivity. Other factors
include excessive diversification of output, inadequate training for
workers and lack of attention to problems caused by high humidity during
the monsoon seasons.
vii.      BTIC has shown great adaptability to meet the basic objective of
restoring production, following the disruption of activities during 1971.
It must now address itself, in the short term, to the problem of raising
the productivity of its mills, as well as to the longer-term problem of the
future structure of the industry, given the balance of payments constraints
on one hand and the need to provide more adequate clothing on the other.
viii.     Short-term Measures.   The steps which BTIC has taken to improve
mill performance need to be followed up; it is recommended that it under-
take more extensive programs to raise mill productivity. It will need
expert help in fields such as production engineering, equipment operation
and financial control. Particular emphasis should be given to setting up
and operating preventive maintenance systems. For this purpose special
teams should be organized, with expatriate assistance, to help individual
mills. The first mills to be studied should be the newest, to prevent
actual damage such as has been experienced in a number of mills where proper
maintenance procedures were not followed for some time. These teams should
also make recommendations in respect of other problems related to produc-
tivity, and in particular should assist in developing training procedures
at mill level to improve worker skills. Finally, the teams should identify
those "inoperable" spindles in the mills under study which can be quickly
put back into operation at reasonable cost.
ix.       The second major task would be the establishment of a unit with
the Corporation to assess the local capacity to produce spare parts and to
promote the local production of a number of items which are not overly complex
in design and which are in sufficient demand to justify domestic output.
External assistance should also be obtained to help in this work. This group
would also identify the principal adaptations which can be economically made
on some of the equipment installed in the last 15 years so as to improve
performance. It would coordinate its activities with the jute industry task
force and with the Ministry of Industries working group on spare parts.
x.        BTIC should establish by the beginning of the 1976/77 fiscal
year a Production Planning Directorate. The Directorate would have respon-
sibility for longer-term production planning for the Corporation including
studies of modernization and expansion requirements. A first task should be
the preparation of a production program to reduce diversification at the
mill level and to concentrate on 14 basic yarn counts overall; this program
should be prepared for implementation in the 1976/77 annual production
program.



ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 4
xi.       Until recently, BTIC had no responsibility for the distribution
of its products which was undertaken by other Government agencies under
strictly controlled allocation systems. These did not operate efficiently
and the mills experienced sharply growing inventory accumulation of both
yarns and cloth in the face of what appeared to be shortage conditions in
local markets. Beginning in mid-1974 the Government adopted a series of
measures to liberalize the allocations, finally in May 1975 lifting practi-
cally all restrictions. Mills are now permitted direct sales to licensed
dealers and handloom weavers in addition to sales to the agencies servicing
handloom weavers, small industries, cooperatives and official trade shops.
xii.      The Corporations Marketing Directorate has hitherto concentrated
on raw material purchases, a function which should be transferred to the
Technical Directorate together with appropriate staff. In view of the fact
that mills are to be given autonomy in sales, it i s recommended that a sales
forecasting division be established within the proposed Production Planning
Directorate.
xiii.     There is urgent need to obtain up-to-date information on the hand-
loom and small power-loom weaving sector not only to ensure that its current
needs are being met through the new measures for distribution but also to
permit proper longer-term planning for the industry. There is considerable
uncertainty over the numbers of units which are currently capable of opera-
tion; primary responsibility for conducting the required surveys and censuses
would rest with appropriate units within the Ministry of Industries particu-
larly the Cottage Industries Corporation and the Handloom Weavers Export
Corporation, but BTIC should be associated with this work, particularly in
view of its interest in the direct sale of yarn to weaving units.
xiv.      Necessary technical adaptations to the equipment of the small
existing rayon mill should be undertaken to permit: fuller utilization of
the plant now operating at 50% of capacity.
xv.       External technical assistance and train:Lng programs for the textile
industry which are being negotiated with UNDP/UNII)O are now relatively ad-
vanced; the overall project is currently designed for almost four years'
duration. It is envisaged that the current proposal will be modified in ac-
cordance with the recommendations of the Association, making more resources
available for assistance to spinning operations, particularly for maintenance
programs, and for developing a spare parts program as discussed in paras.
viii and ix above.
xvi.      Longer-term Strategy.   There is need to review the development
strategy of the industry. As a first step it is essential that a study be
made of the relative efficiency in terms of foreign exchange savings of
domestic spinning of cotton yarn as compared to imports. Secondly, there is
need to assess the potential of the handweaving and small power-loom sectors
and the relative efficiency of these units as compared to the larger inte-
grated mills in the organized textile sector; for this purpose it is im-
portant that the surveys and censuses mentioned in para. xiii be completed



ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 4
as quickly as possible, preferably within eight or nine months. While it is
generally accepted within the country that in the next two or three years
existing handloom capacity can continue to meet most of the country's cloth-
ing requirements, decisions will nevertheless be needed within this same
period regarding changes in power-loom capacity for the period after 1978.
These studies should be initiated during 1975/76.
xvii.     Of particular importance is the study of production paths which
will minimize raw material import requirements; these could double within
the next five years if per capita consumption were to rise to the level
achieved prior to independence. Reduction in import content might be
achieved through local production of man-made fibers (MbF) such as poly-
nosics and polyesters. The study should focus on the possibility of using
domestic resources for MMF production or importing some of the intermediaries
required.



ANNEX VIII
BANGLADESH
FOURTH IMPORTS PROrGRAM CREDIT
UTILIZATION BY SECTOR OF THE THREE PREVIOUS IMPORTS CREDITS
(in US." Million)
Credit     Credit       Credit
Cateor                                      345-BD     458-BD        51-BD        Total
Agricultural Equipment                       8.14   not eligible      --8.4
Fertilizers and Raw Materials
for fertilizer manufacture                   5.5        2.2           7.9         15.6
Components, Chemicals, Raw Materials
Spare Parts, Balancing Equipment and
Packing Materials for:
Jute Industry                              1.5        3.0           0.1          4.6
Textile Industry                           9.7       11.0          16.2         36.9
Paper and Board Industry                   0.7         2.4          4.4          7.5
Food and Allied Products Industry          3.1        2.7      not eligible      5.8
Chemical and Pharmaceutical Industry       7.2        9.0           0.7         16.9
Sugar Industry                             0.3        0.7           --           1.0
Steel and Foundry Industry                 0.4        7.3           6.0         13.7
Commercial Vehicle Industry                6.3         3.4          1.7         11.4
Small-Scale Industry                       1.5        0.2           __          17
Construction Industry                      1.3        2.5           4.0          7.8
Shipbuilding Industry                      3.3        0.8      not eligible      4.1
Telecommunications Industry                0.2   not ehlgible   not eligible     0.2
49.4       43.2         41.0         135.6
SOURCE: IBRD, Disbursements Division



