CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 591 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fourth Imports Program)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 25, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 591 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fourth Imports Program)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 25, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 25, 1975, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower desires to improve the utilization of its existing
industrial productive capacity;
(B)   The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the financing
of imports required for the foregoing; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to    Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "Taka" means Taka in the currency of
the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in    various currencies equivalent to one hundred    million dollars
($100,000,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account subject to and in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services for the Project shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1977 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I X) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April I and
October I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April I and October I commencing
April 1, 1986, and ending October 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on October 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of I ) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2,*) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. Bangladesh Bank is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause it to
be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency.


﻿5
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)         promptly upon receipt of appropriate applications from     the
eligible importers issue, or cause to be issued, such import
licenses as shall be required to carry out the Project;
(ii)        make available, or cause to be i,lade available to the eligible
importers promptly as needed, such amounts of foreign exchange
as shall be required to import goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit; and
(iii)       take all such action as shall appear necessary or convenient to
facilitate the timely importation of goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to be insured, or cause adequate provision to
be made for the insurance thereof, against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   The Borrower shall ensure that the proceeds of the Credit are used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)   maintain records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(b)   enable the Association's accredited representatives to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and
(c)   furnish to the Association all suchI information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the program (referred to in Schedule
2 to this Agreement) of which the Project is a part, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall deposit amounts in Taka, equivalent to
the amounts disbursed by the Association to finance the cost of goods and services
out of the proceeds of the Credit, in an account currently being maintained with


﻿6
the Bangladesh Bank, which amounts are to be described in accordance with
standard practice, as the proceeds from "IDA Credit No. 591-BD." The amounts
so described shall be utilized entirely to finance the Borrower's development
programs.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Section 4.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has issued
import licenses in respect of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit covering foreign exchange allocations aggregating not less than $25,000,000.
Section 4.02. The date December 30, 1975 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 5.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary or Deputy
Secretary of the Ministry of Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Sectioni 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
(Planning Commission)
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh


﻿7
Cable address:
PARIKALPANA
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s / M. R. Siddiqi
A uthorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿8
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported goods eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and the maximum amount of the
Credit which may be withdrawn in respect of any such Category:
Maximum Amount
of the Credit Which
May be Withdrawn
(Expressed in
Dollar Equivalent)
Industry: raw materials, spare
parts, chemicals, components
and packaging materials for.
(1)   Jute industry                                        15,000,000
(2)  Textile industry                                      50,000,000
(3)   Fertilizer industry                                  10,000,000
(4)  Paper and board industry                               9,000,000
(5)  Chemical and pharmaceutical                           25,000,000
industry (limited to
manufacture of indus-
trial chemicals, glass,
soap and pharmaceuticals)
(6)  Sugar industry (excluding                              2,500,000
the beverage industry)
(7)   Steel and foundry industry                           20,000,000
(8)  The following export-oriented                          5,000,000
industries: tea; processing
of shrimp, fish and frog
legs; and leather


﻿9
Maximum Amount
of the Credit Which
May be Withdrawn
(Expressed in
Dollar Equivalent)
(9)   Commercial vehicles industry                           3,000,000
(including spare parts)
Construction Activities
(10) Cement and raw materials for                           19,000,000
cemen manufacture (in-
cluding packaging mate-
rials and spare parts)
and other intermediate
building materials
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services
supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that
withdrawals may be made on account of expenditures incurred after July 1, 1975
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $10,000,000;
(c)   payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof;
(d)   expenditures which would raise the aggregate withdrawals from the
Credit to more than $25,000,000 (valued as of the respective dates of withdrawal)
until the Borrower and the Association have agreed on programs to be carried
out, or caused to be carried out, by the Borrower for the purposes of improving
the performance of the jute and textile industries in Bangladesh;
(e)   expenditures under Category (10) for the cement industry until the
Association has received and has an opportunity to comment upon the Borrower's


﻿10
plan for the distribution of cement including procedures designed to prevent
excessive accumulation of cement stocks; and
(f)   expenditures under Categories (3) through (10) in excess of an
aggregate of $50,000,000 equivalent.
3.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿11
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms part of the program of the Borrower, to be carried out
during the period between July 1, 1975 and December 31, 1977, to make available
foreign exchange to the eligible importers for the import of goods into the territories
of the Borrower for the purpose of improving the utilization of existing productive
capacity in the industrial sectors (including manufacturing and contruction).


﻿12
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for the procurement of goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit the cost of which is the equivalent of $100,000
or more:
(a)   offers shall be invited from not less than three of the major suppliers
from member countries of the Bank and Switzerland;
(b)   the contract shall be awarded to the supplier whose offer is the lowest
evaluated offer; and
(c)   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, the details of the offers sought, the names
of the firms invited to submit offers, a summary of the offers submitted and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. In the event the
lowest offer is not accepted, the Borrower shall also furnish to the Association
the analysis and evaluation of offers and reasons for the award to the successful
supplier. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the provisions of this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions included in the foregoing paragraphs of this
Schedule, whenever the Borrower and the Association are satisfied that goods of
a specific type, design or manufacture are required in the interest of equipment
standardization or of other valid considerations relating to the efficient utilization
of existing productive capacity, such goods may be procured on a negotiated basis
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.


