Doment of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAuL USE ONLY
Repqt Nwo. P-4139-MAU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$20.0 MILLION
TO THE
SOCIETE NATIONALE INDUSTRIELLE ET MINIERE
(SNIM)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A
REHABILITATION PROJECT
November 12, 1985
IT ** k docUeo bs a resice  bgd    _d my bxe usebyecte   only in t  performace of
thIr fi        dud   lbr     ow  ad dkwie be dUS_n  w_Cm Wad  Bu  nobrai



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           Ouguiya (UM)
UK 67             =     US$1.00
UK 1,000          =      US$14.93
UK 1 million      =     US$14,930
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)                =    3.281 feet (ft)
I cubic meter (m3)         =   33.315 cubic feet (ft3)
1 kilometer (km)           =   0.62 miles
1 kilogram (kg)            =   2.205 po':nds (lb)
I metric ton (tonne, t)    =   1,000 kg or 2,205 lb
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFESD       -  Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
BRCK        -  Bureau de Recherches Gfologiques et Minieres
BRPM        -  Bureau de Recherches et de Participations Mini5res
CCCE        -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
EIB         -  European Investment Bank
KFECIC      -  Kuwait Foreign Trading, Contracting and Investment Company
MIFERMA     -  Mines de Fer de Mauritanie
OECF        -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
SAFA        -  Societe Arabe du Fer et de l'Acier
SNIM        -  Societe Nationale Industrielle et Minigre
SOCOMINE    -  Societ,e de Cooperation Miniare et Industrielle
SOFRESID    -  Societe Frangaise d'Etudes de la Siderurgie
MAURITANIAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1     -     Decembe. 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MAURITANIA
SKIM REHABILITATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUHMARY
Borrower:              Societe Nationale Industrielle et Miniare (SNLM).
Amount:                US$20.0 million.
Terms:                 Repayable in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at
the Bank standard variable interest rate plus a
guarantee fee to the Government of 10 percent of the
variable interest rate.
Project Objectives    SKIM's increasing production costs and debt service,
and Description:       both due to the now completed Guelbs Project, require
tight financial management in the coming years. The
Project's main objective is to secure the medium-term
financial and economic viability of SKIM, one of the
most valuable assets to the Mauritanian economy. The
Project would consoLidate and further advance the
ongoing action program for managerial and technical
improvements and would in particular:
(i) help SNIM continue to improve its management and
reduce its production costs; and
(ii) assist with the necessary financial
restructuring of SNIM by transforming part of
its short-term debt/overdraft into long-term
debt.
The Project consists of: (i) measures by SKIH aimed
at improvements and cost reductions in management,
operations, procurement and investments, persconnel,
overhead costs and cash management; and (ii) purchase
of equipment and supplies, and provision of training
and technical assistance necessary for the
implementation of these measures.
Project Risks:         The Project faces major financial, but also
managerial, coumercial and technical risks.  Sound
project preparation, conservative assumptions for the
financial projections and the fact that SNIM has
already successfully started its rehabilitation
program, limit the risks to an acceptable level.
IThis documcnt has a rsicied distfibution and m;2y be used by reapients only in the peqorT&v!ce of 
|their officia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bankt autborizaXon



-ii-
Estimated Cost (net of taxes):                   Local     Foreign     Total
(US$ million)
Replacement of Equipment                           2.5       25.7        28.2
Major Overhaul and Improvement of Equipment       13.3       30.9       44.2
Tools and Control Equipment                          -        4.6        4.6
Training and Technical Assistance                    -        8.5        8.5
Base Cost (Mid-1985 Prices)                       15.8       69.7       85.5
Physical Contingencies                             0.2        1.3        1.5
Price Contingencies                                0.8        4.4        5.2
Total Project Cost                                16.8       75.4       92.2
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign     Total
C(US$ miliion)
External
IBRD                                            -          20.0       20.0
Kuwait/Arab Funds                               -          18.2       18.2
Abu Dhabi Fund                                  _           5.8        5.8
Saudi Fund                                      -           5.7        5.7
OECF                                            -           3.1        3.1
CCCE                                            -           3.0        3.0
Internal
SNIM                                           16.8        19.6       36.4
Total                                           16.8       75.4       92.2
Estimated Disbursements of IBID Loan:
Bank FY                                           1986       1987      1988
-((US$ m1lion)
Annual                                             3.0        7.0       10.0
Cumulative                                        3.0        10.0      20.0
Economic Rate of Return: 25 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 5819-MAU, dated November 12, 1985
IBRD No. 19048
IBRD No. 19049



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO SOCIETE NATIONALE INDUSTRELLE ET MINIERE (SNLM)
FOR A REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Societe Nationale Industrielle et Miniere (SNIM) for US$20.0
million to help finance a Rehabilitation Project for the Company. The loan
will be made available to SNIK at the Bank standard variable interest rate,
plus a guarantee fee of 10 percent thereof payable to the Government, and
is repayable in 15 years, including 3 years of grace. Additional financing
has been made available by Kuwait/Arab Funds (US$18.2 million), Abu Dhabi
Fund (US$5.8 million), Saudi Fund (US$5.7 million), Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF) (US$3.1 million) and Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE) (US$3.0 million).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled  Islamic Republic of Mauritania - Country
Economic Memorandum (5537-MAD), dated July 10, 1985, has been distributed
to the Executive Directors. Updated country data are given in Annex I.
The Land and its People
3.        Mauritania bears many of the characteristics of the 'Least
Developed Countries' in terms of its physical and human resources, despite
a level of per capita income (US$450 in 1984) somewhat higher than the
ceiling for lowest income countries. Three-quarters of the country is
desert or semi-desert, the principal economic activity being livestock
herding. Crop farming is generally limited to the sub-Saharan zone in the
south, where rainfall is nonetheless sparse and irregular. Pockets of
modern economic activity are found in the mining complex of Zouerate, the
fishing center of Nouadhibou and the administrative capital of Nouakchott.
These centers are geographically separated from the agricultural zones, and
there is little economic interaction between them and the rural sector.
4.        The tbree centers of modern economic activity account for a major
share of the country's overall output, while livestock and crop farming,
which support about two-thirds of the population, account on average for
about 20 percent of total output. The mass of the population (total 1.7
million) suffers from an extremely low standard of living, as reflected in
key social indicators: life expectancy at birth is estimated at 46 years,
infant mortality is 136 per 1,000, only one in every three children of
school-age attends primary school, and about 18 percent of the population
is literate in either of the two official languages, Arabic and French.



-2-
Past Economic Performance
5.       Led by increases in iron ore production, Mauritania's GDP
sustained an average annual growth rate of 8 percent during the 1960s. The
economy experienced a sharp deceleration in growth in the mid-1970s,
however, and a period of marked financial instability in the latter part of
the decade. Principal factors were reduced world demand for iron ore, on
which the country had been dependent for 70-80 percent of its export
earnings, and the effects of severe and repeated drought on output in the
rural sector. These factors were compounded by prolonged military conflict
in the Western Sahara and a poorly conceived investment policy. The
investment program was stepped up in the mid-1970s to rates approaching 40
percent of GDP with the support of heavy inflows of foreign assistance,
particularly from OPEC sources and commercial lenders. These resources
were used principally to finance the nationalization of the mining sector,
ambitious projects in transport infrastructure and a few large industrial
ventures which were to prove unviable.
6.       In 1978 the Government undertook a stabilization program which
called for the rescheduling of more than US$200 million In debt service
obligations, tight controls over the Government expenditures and a
reinforced tax effort. Increased iron ore and fish exports and higher crop
and livestock production enabled the economy to pull out of the stagnation
which had characterized it since 1977; real GDP growth over the 1979-1981
period averaged 4.1 percent per annum.
7.       The iWroved performance of the economy could not be sustained,
however,- in the face of a depressed world market for iron ore and the
recurrence of severe drought. Iron ore production fell by more than 20
percent in 1982/83 to a level only 65 percent of that registered 10 years
earlier. With rainfall only about 30 percent of normal levels in the
1983/84 and 1984/85 seasons, the livestock herd suffered major losses, and
cereals production met less than 10 percent of total demand; aggregate
output of the economy increased by only 1.4 percent p.a. from 1982 to
1984. In the absence of sustained growth, per capita average income in
1985 is essentially unchanged in real terms from that of a decade ago.
8.       The public finance situation deteriorated substantially during
the 1982-84 period. The Government's consolidated fiscal deficit rose from
UK 1.7 billion (4.6 percent of GDP) in 1981 to a peak of UM 4.8 billion
(11.2 percent of GDP) in 1983, before falling to UK 3.6 billion (7.8
percent of GDP) In 1984. A 9 percent increase in the size of the civil
service in 1982/83 and high debt service payments contributed to the
deficits. The deficits were financed out of Central Bank advances to the
Treasury and through an accumulation of external and domestic payment
arrears, estimated at about UM 5.5 billion by the end of 1984.
9.        In the external sector, the growth of exports has been modest
while imports have been high, mainly because of capital imports associated
with major public investments. In 1983-84 the current account deficit



-3-
was close to US$230 million on average, or more than 30 percent of GDP, as
the investment ratio averaged 35 percent of GDP. Financing came mainly
from external loans from Governments and multilateral institutions on
concessional terms.
10.       Despite the high degree of concessionality, annual debt service
obligations are well beyond Mauritania's payment capacity. Arrears on debt
service have increased from US$23 million at the end of 1981 to an
estimated US$103 million as of end 1984. Total scheduled payments on
existing debt imply a debt service averaging US$180 million over the
1986-1988 period without taking into account new borrowing after December
31, 1984.
The Recovery Program and the Current Outlook
11.       Mauritania's balance of payments and budgetary situation thus
remains extremely weak, requiring continuing adjustment measures over the
medium term and heavy support from abroad in the form of financial and
technical assistance and food aid. The gradual depreciation of the ouguiya
during 1984 was one of a series of recovery measures required to reduce
external and domestic imbalances to sustainable levels and maximize the
modest prospects for the economy in the medium-term. Further reform
measures in the areas of exchange rate and price policy, fiscal
administration, the public enterprise sector, the banking system and the
public investment program are being pursued in the context of an Economic
and Financial Recovery Program, that the Hauritanian authorities approved
in early September 1985, and will present at a Consultative Group meeting
chaired by the Bank on November 26 and 27, 1985. Already in March 1985,
the Government reached agreement with the IMF on a proposed Stand-By
arrangement for SDR 12 million. In accordance with that agreement, it
undertook in February 1985 a further 19 percent effective devaluation of
the ouguiya in domestic currency terms, as well as increases in cereals
prices at both producer and consumer levels ranging from 12-50 percent.
The Government also raised all interest rates by 2 percent to levels which
are positive in real terms and took measures to restrict credit expansion.
The IMF Stand-By arrangement is noaw being implemented, while negotiations
with Arab and Western bilateral :reditors to fill the projected 1985
financing gap of about US$200 million (including arrears) are progressing
satisfactorily.
12.       Successful implementation of the Government's Economic and
Financial Recovery Program, which includes priority macroeconomic and
sectoral policy measures and a sound public investment program, should be
supported by the international community because of its critical importance
to the medium-term outlook for the economy. With disciplined economic
management and well-conceived measures to exploit Mauritania's limited
resources, modest but sustained growth in output is possible. Although
international iron ore markets are not expected to recover significantly
through the 1980s, it is possible for SNIM to continue to improve the cost
effectiveness of its operations. SNIM's rehabilitation is an essential
part of the Government's Recovery Program. Rural sector production should
recover moderately from the drought-iuduced lows of 1984. In the livestock
sector, some time will be needed to reconstruct the herd following the



-4-
heavy mortality and accelerated offtake over the past two years.  In the
medium-term, irrigation development will increasingly contribute to food
supplies, even though cereals production will remain highly vulnerable to
the effects of drought. In the fisheries sector, now a major source of
foreign exchange and budgetary revenue, growth could remain strong for
another 3-4 years, but should then level off if resources are not to be
over-exploited. Under favorable assumptions, overall growth of the economy
through the remainder of the 1980s could average 3 percent annually, about
the projected rate of population growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA
13.       To date, che Bank Group has had 22 operations in N4auritania for a
total of US$242.5 million. Of these, two are Bank loans for mining
operations (US$66 million to MIFERMA in 1960, and US$60 million to SNIM in
1979 for the Guelbs Iron Ore Project). The other 20 are IDA credits
totalling US$116.5 million. Of the IDA operations, five have been in the
transport sector, seven in the rural sector, two for education, two for
technical assistance to economic planning and one for technical assistance
to the Rural Sector, and there have been separate projects for urban and
rural development, Public Enterprise Rehabilitation, Artisan and Industrial
Development and petroleum exploration. In 1985, the IFC has financed a
food oil refinery. The Bank Group's presence in Mauritania was fairly
substantial in the early 1970s, and in 1970-72 it was the third largest
donor providing about 18 percent of Mauritania's external capital
assistance. Since then, external financial assistance to Mauritania from
other sources has increased rapidly and at present, the Bank Group's share
in Mauritania's external capital assistance amounts to about 8.0 percent.
i4.       Until the mid-1970s, Bank Group strategy for Mauritania focussed
on financing traditional projects mainly in agriculture, transport and
education. This assistance has since been broadened to address the
institutional weaknesses in country economic management, investment
planning and project implementation. In 1978, the Association assisted the
Government in designing a financial and economic rehabilitation program for
which the first Technical Assistance Project (FY77) provided the
expertise. Assistance for the formulation of macroeconomic policy, a
medium- and long-term development strategy, and investment programs is
being continued under a Second Technical Assistance Project (FY82), which
is also helping to develop a pipeline of feasible investment projects. The
objective of this assistance is to institute a much more thorough analysis
of investments than in the past, especially to avoid large, capital
intensive projects with low productivity and unsatisfactory rates of
return. Priority will now be given to projects involving the
rehabilitation and maintenance of existing infrastructure, and only to
those new investments that promise a high rate of return.
15.       After a comprehensive review of public sector enterprises
financed under the first Technical Assistance project, assistance was also
provided to the Interministerial Committee for the Rehabilitation of Public



-5-
Enterprises in the course of preparing a medium-term rehabilitation program
for the public enterprise sector. This program includes measures to
increase the efficiency of existing enterprises through selective
rehabilitation, privatization and liquidation, and outlines rehabilitation
programs for several of these enterprises, including pricing policies,
personnel adjustments, streamlining of management and appropriate
maintenance of equipment. In support of this program, a Public Enterprise
Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project was approved by the Board
of Executive Directors in FY85.
16.       In order to address Mauritania's severe balance of payments
problems, tight fiscal situation and inability to service its public debt,
the Association, in close cooperation with the IMF, helped the Government
finalize a Recovery Program (1985-86) to be presented to a Consultative
Group meeting scheduled on November 26 and 27, 1985. To back-up these
efforts, our country and economic sector work, concerning particularly the
banking, fisheries, education, energy and urban development sectors, has
been intensified.  To support the program more directly, a policy based
operation is envisaged for FY87 which will aim at improving economic
mnagement and the utilization of domestic resource potential.
17.       Professional training and technical assistance will remain an
essential ingredient of IDA assistance to overcome the acute shortages of
trained local staff at all levels, a major difficulty in project
implementation. Through project aid and technical assistance, efforts have
been made to strengthen farmers' training and vocational training for the
modern industrial sector, as well as to broaden access to primary
education. Nonetheless, pupils completing secondary and vocational schools
with satisfactory results remain scarce; this partially explains the low
productivity of employees in the modern sector.
18.       Assistance to the education sector is being provided under the
Second Education Project (FY82) which aims at expanding access to primary
education, improving vocational training in the modern industrial and
commercial sectors, and training of lower secondary school teachers to
replace a substantial number of foreign technical assistants. The
C-overnment recently requested that the Association assist its Education
Reform Committee in reviewing key sectoral issues, defining long-term
objectives, formulating policies, preparing an investment program to
increase the efficiency of education and training, and reducing recurrent
costs because of the already large share of education (30%) in the national
budget.
19.       Assistance to agriculture will continue since this sector is
still considered Mauritania's principal source of long-term growth, despite
its weak base and extreme vulnerability to drought, and the high cost of
investment which is due to difficult physical conditions, limited transport
infrastructure, and the high level of technical assistance needed. Through
the Second Technical Assistance to the Rural Sector Project (FY83), rural
institutions are being strengthened and incentives for efficiency developed



-6-
by addressing such fundamental issues as input and product pricing,
subsidies and land tenure. A Small Scale Irrigation project (FY85)
continues IDA's assistance to the irrigation program by financing the
establishment of 75 command areas of 20-25 ha each. The participation of
beneficiaries in construction, maintenance and operation is being
emphasized to minimize investment costs. A Second Livestock project,
scheduled to be presented to the Board of Executive Directors during FY86,
would improve livestock production, strengthen services and-based on
experience in Niger and Mali-establish pastoral cooperatives on a trial
basis and allocate grazing rights to identifiable land areas.
20.       In the energy sector, our assistance consists of supporting the
Government's search for oil through the Petroleum Exploration Project
(FY82), and carrying out an energy assessment in order to recommend
strategies and policies for improving energy demand management, developing
indigenous energy resources, strengthening institutions, and identifying
areas for follow-up technical assistance that could form the basis for a
future operation.
21.       The Association is also helping Mauritania to develop an overall
strategy for the urban sector. Urbanization has accelerated dramatically
in recent years, but appropriate measures to ad5 ust to this development
have not been taken. Sector work is being carried out to gather detailed
knowledge of urban requirements, and to examine wider urban policy issues
in the overall context of Mauritania's development prospects. This sector
work may lead to the design of an urban project at a later stage.
22.       To assist in Mauritania's efforts to diversify employment and
sources of in-come, financing was provided through the Mauritaaian
Development Bank (Credit 888-MAU) to encourage private enterprise and to
promote artisanal carpet-weaving activities. A Second Industrial
Development project (Credit 1572-MAU) approved by the Board in FY85 is
continuing support for these objectives by financing studies to develop
appropriate policies for improving subsector performance and to assess the
possibilities for further expansion of the manufacturing sector.
23.       The Recovery Program for 1985-86 has identifted fisheries and
banking as two priority sectors where well-defined actions are urgently
required to help the economy recover from its past record of low growth.
To assist the government in defining meaningful strategies in these two key
sectors, the Bank has financed two studies which will provide the
government and the donor community with a sound basis for defining basic
studies and other policy actions. A first set of actions should be carried
out in 1986. As the best source of growth in the short-term, the strategy
objective in the fisheries sector will be to capture a larger share of the
benefits currently reaped by foreign trawlers or contractors operating in
Mauritanidn waters.  Once this sector strategy is in place, a fisheries
project would be considered.



-7-
24.       The banking sector is composed of six banks, four of which are
fully controlled by the Central Bank. The sector has been suffering from a
steady decline in its profitability (despite a continuous expansion of
lending), obvious illiquidity, a tight cash position and risks that are out
of proportion to the banks' potential, The capital and net worth of the
banks have been progressively eroded )because of accumulated deficits and
bad debts, which are reaching the point where the future of the banks is
jeopardized. The study, cofinanced with the Arab Monetary Fund, will
provide an objective analysis of the means and actions required to restore
the banks' financial viability, improve their management and change their
system of credit control.  The implementation of the rehabilitation program
for the banking sector is obviously crucial for the promotion of all
productive sectors. The Bank will consider providing some assistance for
this rehabilitation program as part of the policy-based operation envisaged
for FY87.
PART III - THE MINING SECTOR
Role of Mining Sector in the Economy
25.       Despite the recent development of the fisheries sector, mining
continues to be the most important sector of the Mauritanian economy. The
mining sector consists almost exclusively of the exploitation of iron ore,
which dates back to 1963 when Mines de Fer de Nauritanie (MIFERNA), the
predecessor of SNIM, commenced operations. Production capacity is about
11.5 million tonnes per year. The most recent investment was the Guelbs
Project that started production in March 1985. The operations are located
inland at Zouerate, about 650 km east northeast of Nouadhibou, the port of
shipment, which is connected with Zouerate by a company-owned railway.
26.       Iron ore mining by SNIM has been a mainstay of the Mauritanian
economy, and its development has been the chief determinant of the
country's economic growth. While still a very important sector in the
Mauritanian economy, the mining sector's direct contribution to GDP has
fallen from 13.9 percent in 1975 to 9.2 percent in 1983, partly due to
declining iron ore output and partly to growth in other sectors, in
particular the fisheries sector which increased its contribution to GDP at
market prices from 3.6 percent in 1975 to 7.7 percent in 1983. Also,
Government Services and Transport and Communications have grown relative to
other sectors in the same period. However, in addition to its direct
contribution to GDP, iron ore mining has some indirect impact on GDP
-       through value-added in the industrial, construction and services sectors.
27.      Iron ore is still a very important source of foreign exchange,
although its share in Mauritania's total merchandise exports fell from 86
percent in 1975 to 42 percent in 1983, basically due to the emergence of
earnings from the export of fish and fish products. SNIM contributes to
public revenues directly through the payment of a 10 percent tax on all



-8-
iron ore sales and indirectly through the tax payments of its approximately
6,100 employees. The sales tax alone amounted in 1984 to an estimated 8
percent of total public revenues.
Resource Base
28.      Iron Ore. Iron ore is being mined from several small mines in
the Kedia mountains near Zouerate, where high grade ore (iron content
62-64 percent Fe) occurs which can be exploited and exported without prior
beneficiation. In view of declining ore reserves at KCedia, the Guelbs
Project has been prepared as a high priority since the mid-1970s. The
project provides in its first phase for a partial replacement (6 million
tonnes per year) of Kedia ore through the mining and beneficiation of low
grade ore (38 percent Fe). The new mine, the beneficiation plant (which
upgrades the ore to a marketable product of 64 percent Fe content) and some
additional infrastructure were commissioned in 1984 and are now in the
initial start-up phase. Presently, the remaining high grade ore reserves
of Kedia are estimated to be in the order of 30 million tonnes. With an
estimated average future extraction of three million tonnes per year, this
would allow the parallel operation of Kedia and Guelbs until the
mid-1990s. The reserves of low grade Guelbs ore (about 2.3 tonnes are
needed to yield 1 tonne of product) were originally estimated at about 450
million tonnes. 1/ However, at present iron ore prices, only about 50-60
percent would be economically recoverable. This would allow operation of
the existing Guelbs facilities for about 20 years, but would be an
insufficient base for the previously planned phase 2 expansion of Guelbs.
29.      Other Minerals. Other than iron ore, only copper and gypsum have
been mined in Mauritania. The Akjoujt copper deposit, located about 200 km
northeast of Nouakchott, was mined by Societe des Mines de Mauritanie
(SOMIMA) from 1971 to 1978 21, which became a subsidiary of SNIM during
the last three years of this period. Due to continuous high losses, the
operations were shut down in 1978. The market and prices further
deteriorated, and the outlook for a successful reopening is bleak. A high
arsenic content of the ore would add to the marketing difficulties. Gypsum
from an area north of Nouakchott has been mined since 1973 by SNIN. In
1983, this operation was separated from SNIM. The output is small (17,000
tonnes per year) and entirely sold to the Rufisque cement plAnt in Senegal
in return for a rebate on cement sold to Mauritania. Other minerals, which
are not mined but have been reported existing in Mauritania include
phosphate, rare earth and gold. About 90 million tonnes of raw phosphate
rock have been explored near the Senegal river, some 300 km from the sea.
The market situation, relatively low reserves and the lack of transport
infrastructure preclude an economical exploitation at present. Similarly,
market considerations, remote desert locations and poor geological
indications presently do not suggest any possibility of economical
exploitation of rare earth or gold.
1J Including 100 million tonnes from the nearby Guelb Oum Arwagen.
2/ IFC partic'.pated in the establishment with share and loan capital in an
amount of approximately US$20.0 milion, but has since sold all shares.



-9-
The Borrower: Societe Nationale IndustrieLle et Miniere (SN3DM)
30.       Ownership, Organization and Management. Since the
nationalization of MIFERMA in 1974, the mines have been operated by SOIM,
established as a State company in 1972. In 1978, SKIM was made a
state-controlled, limited liability corporation (Societe d'Economie Mixte a
Najorite d'Etat), permitting private and foreign ownership. SIND's share
capital is currently held by the Mauritanian government (70.9 percent), the
Kuwait Foreign Trading Contracting and Investment Company (9.6 percent),
the Arab Mining Company (7.6 percent), the Iraq Fund for External
Development (6.2 percent), le Bureau de Recherches et de Participations
Kiniares du Maroc (3.1 percent), la Banque Islamique de DWveloppement (2.4
percent) and Mauritanian individuals (0.2 percent).
31.       Apart from the iron ore mining operation (SNIM Fer), SNIM
includes a few minor ventures: (i) SNIM Explosifs, a small explosives
factory, now being made redundant by the introduction of modern explosive
mixing trucks in the mines; (ii) SNIM Acier, a small steel plant producing
steel bars used in construction mainly for the local market; and (iii)
SNIM Paris, the marketing branch located in Paris. The operation of SINK
Acier has so far made cash losses. SNIM has sold off two-thirds of its
shares in this company and the steel mill is nor legally, financially and
administratively separated from SNIM.
32.       Starting in late 1984, SNIN's management structure was modified
from a flat structure (22 departmental managers reporting directly to the
general manager) to a pyramid shaped structure (10 managers reporting to
the general msanager, each with three to seven divisional managers reporting
to them). In early 1985, the previous technical manager was promoted to
the position of general manager. His background and experience are
valuable for implementing management, production and cost improvements. A
review of the management and organizational structure by consultants
CCEGOS/METCHEK), whose terms of reference were reviewed by the Bank, was
completed in September 1985 and confirmed the appzopriateness of SHIM's new
overall organizational structure.
33.       From 1979 to 1984, SINM's work-force has increased by about 17
percent, from 5,165 to 6,059. This high growth in the work-force is a
major reason for the company's present financial difficulties and will be
addressed in the proposed Rehabilitation Project (para. 54). On the other
hand, SINM has reduced the number of expatriates from about 400 to
approximately 100.
34.       Operations.  SINM's headquarters are located at Nouadhibou, the
port of ore shipments. The mines are managed from Zouerate and the port
and railway are managed from Nouadhibou. For its operations, SHNM also
maintains a small office in Nouakchott for liaison with the Government and
a small purchase office in Las Palmas. Although the labor force is large
compared to efficient iron ore operations elsewhere, SHNM's operations are
reasonably efficient, and equipment maintenance is, in general,
appropriate.



-10-
35.       The Kedia mining operations are spread over six small pits,
equipped with older 4m3-electric rope shovels and trucks, mainly in the 60
tonnes-class. There are two crushing and train loading stations, one at
Rouessa and one at Tazadit, each having a capacity of about 5 million
tonnes per year. The mobile mining equipment, as well as the fixed
installations, need continuous planned maintenance and overhaul for
efficient operation. Central workshops along with other services such as
power/water supply and warehousing, are located in Zouerate. The town now
has about 50,000 inhabitants of which about 2,500 are employed by SNIM.
Although major services for the town, such as schools, hospitals, food
distribution and airport operation have, to a large extent, been
transferred to Government agencies or private enterprises, SNOM is still
responsible for power and water supply, as well as for major road
maintenance. By the end of 1986, SNIM will decide on further cost saving
measures in this area.
36.       The railway connects Zonerate, over a distance of about 650 km,
with the port at Nouadhibou. Although SNIM has regularly maintained the
railway track, some of its sections are now so heavily worn, that
replacement has become critical to sustain present production rates. Some
of the locomotives are worn out and need either new engines or complete
replacements. The port equipment consisting of ore tipping, crushing,
screening, stockpiling and shiploading facilities is basically in good
operating condition; only the shiploader requires overhaul in the near
future to secure high availability.
37.       The Guelbs Project.  This project was implemented to replace the
production of iron ore from the depleting reserves of the Kedia mine. It
consists of a new mine at Guelb (mountain) El Rhein, about 30 km north of
Zouerate, a beneficiation plant of 6 million tonnes per year capacity and
some extension of the existing railway and port. Financing from 12
lenders, including the Bank, was secured in 1978 and first contracts were
issued in 1979. After initial delays caused by late effectiveness of the
loans and procurement inefficiencies, construction was completed by end
1984 at a cost of US$350.0 million, about 20 percent lower than estimated
at appraisal, mainly due to the lower than expected inflation and the
highly competitive bid prices obtained. The first beneficiated ore was
shipped in March 1985. Apart from the initial delays and the still
remaining task of bringing the output of the beneficiation plant to full
capacity, the project was implemented satisfactorily from a technical,
financial and managerial point of view.
38.       The mine is equipped with modern, large equipment.  The
beneficiation plant is the key component of the project. Due to lack of
water, a completely dry semi-autogenous grinding process followed by dry
magnetic separation was selected. Provisions have been made for a possible
later addition of production lines. A new 60 KW diesel power station has
also been added.



-ll-
39.       The output for 1985 is estimated at about 1.0-1.5 million
tonnes. SNIM plans to increase the production over the next two years to
4.5 million tonnes per year (75 percent of capacity) and accordingly
decrease the production from Kedia. Although all major operating
parameters have been verified to range within design limits, SNIM
experienced some technical problems, in particular with the control of dust
from the totally dry process. The plant designer (SOCOMINE), the French
steel company (SOLMER), the French steel industry's consulting branch
(SOFRESID) and equipment suppliers all provided technical assistance for
the start-up. Based on the experience gained during the first six months
of operation, SNIM has prepared a detailed plan for improvements and has
created a task force to solve technical problems. These measures are
considered appropriate.
40.       Past Production and Sales Performance and Recent Financial
Position. In 1984, SNDM produced and sold 9.5 million tonnes, which
enabled it to reverse a trend of declining production and sales from 11.7
million tonnes in 1974 to 7.4 million tonnes in 1983. The recent increase
was primarily due to increased sales to Italy, Belgium and the UK, where
SNIM's share of imports increased from 1982 to 1984 by 5 percent, 4
percent, and 2 percent, respectively (para. 47).
41.       Over the last five years SNIM has been able to keep its
production cost constant at a level of about US$15/tonne. A reduction of
about 20 percent was achieved in 1984, mainly due to the higher production
rate and the ougulya devaluation. While production costs have been
sufficiently low to prevent major cash deficits in the past, SNIM has,
however, not been in a position to accumulate the funds needed for
self-financing of the originally planned second phase of the Guelbs
Project.
42.       Despite the balanced cash flow in the past and the production
cost improvements of 1984, SNID is in a difficult financial situation.
Internal cash generation of US$35.0 million plus external financing in the
amount of US$47.5 million (total US$82.5 millioln) was insufficient to cover
payment of royalties (US$13.8 million), debt service (US$6.5 million) and
capital expenditure (US$71.9 million, including change in working
cLpital). Consequently, SWIM's bank overdrafts increased to US$15.1
million. The curreat ratio 3/, still above 1.0 in 1982 and 1983, dropped
to 0.9 in 1984.
43.       Repayment of the Guelbs debt has started in 1984 and debt
principal payments have increased from US$6.5 million in 1984 to US$19.1
million in 1985. This, together with the outlook for production cost at
the Guelbs plant (para. 44) and SNIM's 1984 financial results, clearly
indicates that costs must be cut to increase internal cash generation if
the increasing cash requirements are to be met. SNIM, together with Bank
missions, has identified areas where sufficient cost reductions in the
short- and medium-tenm can be achieved.
3/ Current assets/current liabilities.



-12-
44.       SNIM's Medium- and Long-Term Outlook.  Starting in 1985, SNIM
will over the medium-term operate its traditional Kedia operations and the
new Guelbs plant in parallel. Ore sales are expected to amount to 9 to 10
million tonnes per year, of which the Guelbs plant, after the initial
start-up period, would produce up to 6 million tonnes per year; the
remainder of 3 to 4 million tonnes per year being produced as high grade
and siliceous ore by the Kedia,mines. Due to the low ore grade and the
resulting high mining volume aita beneficiation costs, ore produced from the
Guelbs would cost about US$4.2/tonne more than from Kedia. This means an
increase of SNIM's overall cash production cost by about 20 percent once
the Guelbs plant is in full operation.  In addition, SNIM will, during this
period, have to service the Guelbs debt.
45.       After depletion of the Kedia mines, estimated to occur around
1995, SNIM's production and sales volume would decrease. Depending on the
amount of siliceous ore SNIM could produce and sell at that time from
Guelbs, the drop in production may be in the order of 20 percent, so that
the long-term production rate may be about 7-8 million tonnes per year.
Operation of the existing Guelbs facilities may be financially possible at
that rate, since SNIM then would have paid back most of the Guelbs debt.
However, the operation at the reduced production level would require
further drastic adjustment of overhead cost beyond the cost cutting
measures of the proposed Project.
The Iron Ore Market
46.       The international iron ore market is the major determinant of
SNIN's financial viability and of the value of SNIM to the Mauritanian
economy. The uncertainty of this market is consequently the major source
of financial risk for SNIM and for the proposed Project. An estimated 98
percent of iron ore goes to steel industry blast furnaces to produce pig
iron for steel making. Consequently, the iron ore market is intimately
linked to the steel market. The steel market has contracted substantially
during the last 15 years, and steel consumption and production is expected
to grow by a modest 15 percent over the next 10 years, almost exclusively
in developing countries. It follows that growth in iron ore requirements
will come from steel mills in developing countries, whereas demand
projections for the seaborne iron ore of industrialized countries (the
market SNIM is catering to) indicate poor market prospects. Given the
presently substantial excess in world iron ore production capacity and the
fact that the two major producers, Brazil and Australia, are profitable at
current prices, iron ore prices in real terms are likely not to increase
over the medium- to long-term. A slow and gradual decline of prices from
1984 to 1995 amounting to a total of 7 percent in real terms is projected.
47.       SNIM's major markets in 1984 were Italy (accounting for 31
percent of sales), France (23 percent), Belgium (23 percent), the United
Kingdom (11 percent) and Germany (6 percent). SNIM's recent export
performance has been acceptable. Even at a time when European iron ore
markets were particularly depressed, SNIM has consistently captured about 7



-13-.
percent of the European seaborne iron ore market. However, SNIM exports
are concentrated in three countries (France, UK and Italy) where its
market share reaches 15 percent.  SNIM has traditionaliy little market
penetration in Germany which is the major European market for imported iron
ore. This leaves SNIM in a somewhat unfavorable market positiou as its
sales are concentrated in the European markets with low expectations for
future growth. On the other hand, SNIM's share of the total European
market is relatively small at 7 percent, and its Guelbs sales are to
replace existing Kedia sales. Also, European steel mills may wish
to retain supply capabilities in West Africa to avoid concentrating their
supply sources in Brazil and Australia.  To the extent reserves are being
depleted in Liberia and prospects are not favorable for new iron ore
projects In Africa to add substantial new capacity, SNIM should be able to
maintain its sales level in the European iron ore market. SNOM sales to
developing countries are mainly to countries around the Mediterranean
(Tunisia, Turkey and Yugoslavia). These sales have been and are expected
to stay small. For the faster growing Asian developing countries, SNIM's
geographical position is unfavorable.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and the Bank's Role
48.       The proposed Proiect was identified in connection with
supervision of the Guelbs Project. Since 1981, Bank staff have projected a
serious future cash deficit, if SNIM would not take remedial actions. In
1984, SNIM took the first steps to improve its financial situation,
declared its intention to complete a full rehabilitation program, and
requested the Bank's and other donors' assistance in the financing of such
a program. The Guelbs colenders agreed to it. Whereas most lenders could
make available unused portions of their Guelbs loans (due to lower than
estimated project cost) or reschedule their loan repayments, the Bank
considered a new loan, provided agreement could be reached on details of
the future rehabilitation program.
49.       The Rehabilitation Project is in line with the Bank's lending
strategy for Mauritania and the West African region, aiming at creating
economies which do not depend on continued external financial assistance.
SNIM is a major asset of the Mauritanian economy which has a considerable
positive macroeconomic impact, and its technical and financial viability is
crucial.  The scope for improvements exists and SNIM and the Government
have started taking actions. The Bank's support helps focus on priority
actions and implementing them in a timely manner; moreover, it is also
welcomed by the colenders, who recognize the benefit of the Bank's
leadership in this connection.
50.       The Project was appraised in April 1985.  Negotiations took place
in Washington from October 16 to 18, 1985. The Mauritanian delegation was
headed by Mr. Mohamed Lemine Ould Deidah. The main features of the Project



-14-
are outlined in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this
report. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet (Annex III) and Maps Nos. IBRD
19048 and 19049 are attached. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5819-HAU,
dated November 12, 1985) is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
Project Objectives and Description
51.       Generally adverse market conditions and SNIM's market position
underscore the importance of SNIM's strong and sustained efforts to remain
a source of economic benefits to the Mauritanian economy, in addition to
staying a financially viable operation. As part of the supervision of the
Guelbs Project, the Bank assisted SNIM in preparing a rehabilitation
program which it began implementing in 1984. The Project consists of the
actions in support of this rehabilitation program, which covers the period
1984-1988. About US$36.7 million will have been expended by end 1985, of
which US$27.9 million are being financed by SNIM and US$8.8 million by the
Guelbs colenders. The proposed Loan of US$20.0 million, together with
additional funds from SNTM's internal cash generation (US$7.7 million) and
the colenders (US$27.8 million) will finance the project components to be
implemented from January 1986 to mid-1988.
52.       The Bank's financial involvement will consolidate and further
advance the ongoing action program for managerial and technical
improvements and will in particular:
(i) help SNIM continue to improve its management and reduce its
production costs; and
(ii)  assist with the necessary financial restructuring of SNIM by
transforming part of its short-term debt/overdrafts into
long-term debt.
53.       The rehabilitation program, as prepared by SNIM, consists of a
series of measures by SNIN aimed at improvements and cost reductions in the
areas of management, operations, procurement and investments, personnel,
overhead cost and cash management. The Project includes the purchase of
critical equipment, as well as training and technical assistance necessary
for the implementation of the rehabilitation program.
54.       The Rehabilitation Program.  The program consists of the
following actions:
-    Management and Organization.  SNIM has taken actions to simplify
and improve the company's structure (para. 32). A few minor
additional improvements were suggested by consultants
(CEGOS/METCHEK) and will be implemented by SNIM as part of the
rehabilitation program. As from 1986, a detailed five-year
production and investment plan will be prepared and updated
annually. New systems for cost accounting, reporting and budget



;
-15-
control will also be introduced in 1986. The Bank reviewed
SNIM's new operational efficiency and budget review procedures
and found them satisfactory. Furthermore, in order to monitor
and ensure the appropriate implementation of measures concerning
financial management and capital structure, assurances were
obtained that the five-year production/investment plan be
reviewed annually and a copy submitted to the Bank for approval.
Operations.  The operations and maintenance improvements extend
to mining activities, port and railway, and to the control of
spare parts. Planned overhauls of fixed installations and
equipment, close control of the utilization of critical equipment
and the elimination of old and redundant equipment will be
particularly emphasized during the years 1986 and 1987. SNIM has
presented a satisfactory program for equipment overhauls in those
two years. SNIM also made satisfactory arrangements for
controlling the start-up of the Guelbs plant during the remainder
of 1985 and during 1986 (para. 39). Definition of targets for
1987/88 is a condition of continued disbursement (para. 63).
Technical assistance for railway maintenance has started. About
20 man-months of foreign technical assistance for spare parts
management, financed by the Bank, will be obtained in 1986.
Procurement and Investments.  The procurement process will be
made more efficient by consolidation of procurement and
purchasing departments, the increase of technical staff and by
greater recourse to international competition. These
improvements started in 1984 and will be mostly completed in
1986. Investments will be closely controlled and restricted to
the absolute minimum. Agreement has been reached that SWDM will
not invest more than US$5.5 million per year without approval of
the Bank. Agreement was also reached that SNIM will maintain a
curreat ratio of no less than 1.1 until one year after project
completion and of no less than 1.3 thereafter.
Personnel.  SNDM has provided the Bank with an acceptable plan
for reduction of personnel and overtime. Achievement of these
targets is a condition for continued disbursement (para. 63).
SNIM will also prepare a five-year policy for salaries, which
will help to achieve cost reductions, along with targets for
1987/88, and agree with the Bank on this policy before June 30,
1987.
Overhead Cost.  SNIM has started to reduce costs in areas such as
its offices abroad and in Nouadhibou, non-iron ore and research
activities, transport and general training. A study will be
carried out in 1986 for further reductions, and SNIM's definition
of 1987/88 targets, acceptable to the Bank, is a condition for
continued disbursement (para. 63).



-16-
-    Cash Management. The day to day management of cash will be
improved so as to reduce the short-term debt. At the end of
1984, SNIM had almost fully utilized its available bank
overdrafts (about US$15.0 million). Presently, SNIM is slowly
reducing the overdrafts. Further reductions by at least US$5.0
million from the December 31, 1985 level (expected to be about
US$10 million) are a condition of continued disbursement (para.
63).
55.       Project Components to be Financed.  SNIM's internal cash
generation, funds from colenders and the proposed Bank loan will finance
the purchase of necessary equipment for the following purposes:
-    Replacement of Equipment.  Some heavily worn railway track
sections, locomotives and locomotive engines will be replaced to
ensure adequate transport capacity, in accordance with the
previous recommendations of a consultant. Worn and obsolete
mining equipment will also be replaced. The capacity of the
electric line between the Guelbs site and the mining town of
Zonerate will be increased, so that the town can benefit from
cheaper electricity.
-    Major Overhauls and Improvement of Equiyment   Major fixed
installations at Zouerate and Nouadhibou will be overhauled to
eliminate production bottlenecks. All needed mobile mining
equipment will be brought into good mechanical condition for high
performance. Special emphasis will be on the availability of
critical supplies needed for efficient operation, such as tires
for mining trucks, conveyor belts and wearing parts.
-    Tools and Control Equipment.  Sufficient and Improved tools and
instrumentation will be provided for wXorkshops and for major
field equipment to Improve efficiency and control. Also, for
better control and planning, more use of computers wlll be made.
-    Training and Technical Assistance.  SNIK will continue to employ
about 24 key expatriates, who are training Mauritanians in the
areas of operations, maintenance and supervision. Courses to
develop supervisory skills will be offered by a consultant.
Consultants services will also be obtained for the implementation,
of a new management information system, mine planning ard mine
operations, railway maintenance, spare parts management and
start-up of the Guelbs plant. An estimated total of 1,735
mn-months are involved, of which 1,150 man-months (66 percent)
are provided by expatriates presently employed by SNIM. About
730 man-months will have been provided by end 1985, of which 78
percent are being financed by SNIM and 22 percent by the
colenders. The remaining services are already contracted with
the exception of 40 man-months for: (i) assistance in spare
parts management to provide SNIM with key expert advice on how to



-17-
maintain and further improve good standards for this important
function; and (ii) courses for managers and supervisors, to
improve their managerial skills. The assistance in both these
areas will be financed by the Bank under the proposed Project.
Implementation Arrangements and Schedule
56.      All activities will be nonitored by the company's controller, an
experienced engineer directly reporting to the General Manager, who during
the last two years has been increasingly involved in the design and
implementation of SNIM's cost saving measures. Orders for the execution of
the diffarent project components will be given by the General Manager
through the line management to the executing units. Procurement will be
bandled by SNIM's procurement/purchasing department which has sufficient
experience to carry out efficiently the procurement tasks required under
the Project.
57.      Implementation of the rehabilitation program, of which the
Project forms a part, started in 1984. Completion of the program is
expected by mid-1988. Actions concerning Guelbs start-up, as well as
reduction of personnel and overtime will be handled in two distinct
phases. An evaluation of the results of the first phase and definition of
plans and targets for the second phase, expected before July 1, 1987, will
precede the implementation of the second phase.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
58.      The estimated total project cost in mid-1985 prices (net of taxes
but including contingencies) is estimated at US$92.2 million, of which
US$75.4 million is in foreign exchange. Total base costs net of
contingencies amount to US$85.5 million. Costs were estimated based on
SMI1's experience in procuring similar goods and services over the past few
years. Actual expenditures were taken for components already started in
1984 and 1985. Physical contlngencies of 3 percent were added for
expenditures in 1986 and 1987. Price contingencies were based on an
assumed inflation of 7.0 percent in 1986 and 1987, and 7.5 percent in 1988.
59.      All local project costs (US$16.8 million) plus US$19.6 million
foreign costs are financed by SNIt from its own internal cash generation.
The remaining US$55.8 million foreign exchange costs will be financed by
SNIM's previous lenders for the Guelbs Project, including the Bank.
Whereas the Kuwait/Arab/Saudi/Abu Dhabi Funds and OECF have made available
unused portions of their Guelbs loans under the same favorable terms, the
CCCE has made a new loan of US$3.0 million equivalent with an interest rate
of 5 percent and repayable over 15 years, after a 5 year grace period. The
Bank proposes also to provide a new loan in the amount of US$20.0 million
to be made to SWIM at the standard IBRD variable interest rate plus a 10
percent guarantee fee to the Government for a 15-year term, including a
3-year grace period, and a commitment fee of 0.75 percent.



-18-
60.       All loans will be included in the existing trust and set-aside
agreements for the Guelbs project, whereby all proceeds from the sale of
iron ore are allocated as a matter of priority to debt service payments and
set aside tbrough monthly transfers to a London trust account from which
lenders are paid. The agreements also provide for setting aside on a
monthly basis the foreign exchange SNIM needs for its day-to-day
operations. The remainder, consisting basically of SNIM's labor cost and
royalties to the Government, is transferred to the Central Bank of
Mauritania for the credit of SNIM.
Procurement and Disbursement
61.       All goods and services will be procured in accordance with Bank
guidelines, except for specific items financed by colenders which would be
procured under their own procedures.
62.       Out of the US?18.0 million allocated under the proposed Bank loan
for the purchase of goods and equipment, about US$10.4 million will be used
for the direct purchase of spare parts and sub-assemblies from the
manufacturers of equipment and some specialized operating supplies.  Given
the proprietary nature of most of this equipment, the small size of the
contracts (none is expected to exceed US$300,000 equivalent) and the need
to utilize genuine spare parts, this method is considered the most
efficient and appropriate. However, the aggregate amount of sole source
procurement shall not exceed an aggregate of US$10.5 million. The balance
of the Bank loan will be used to purchase tools, instrumentation, tires for
mining trucks, conveyor belts and wearing parts for mining and
beneficiation equipment.  Such goods are either purchased in small lots,
are only available from a limited number of suppliers (e.g. tools and
instrumentation), or require long testing periods before an adequate
technical evaluation can he completed in order to select the most
economical product for a specific application (tires, wearing parts). SNIM
has purchased such goods from well-known international manufacturing
firms. Therefore, the most appropriate procurement procedure is limited
international bidding (LIB) fo  all packages not exceeding US$300,000 or
equivalent, on the basis of at least four bids being invited from at least
three countries. Although not foreseen at this time, should larger
packages be tendered during project implementation, they would be procured
by international competitive bidding (ICB) under Bank guidelines. For all
contracts not exceeding US$50,000 or equivalent, international shopping
will be applied by inviting price quotations from at least 3 suppliers.
Due to the large number of equipment items from various suppliers and
SNIM's prudent policy to avoid stocking large quantities of spare parts and
materials, the number of packages to be procured will be large (presently
estimated at about 150). SNIM handles such procurement efficiently as part
of its daily operations. Purchase orders for sole source equipment will be
issued without delay as required by the materials management system.  Also,
the bidding procedure for LIB-procured packages, such as for tires,
conveyor belts and wearing parts, will be initiated in a timely manner
through the materials management system. Bank staff has reviewed with SNIK



'V
-19-
procedures and documents for sole source and LIB-procurement and found
SNIM's procedures appropriate. There will be a prior review of all
procurement documents (bidding documents, bid evaluations and contracts)
for the first ten procurement packages (excluding international shopping)
and all packages exceeding US$500,000.
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Project Element                          Procurement Method
Sole                Total
LIB      Source    Other      Cost
Replacement of Equip-nat              24.6       3.3       -          27.9
Sub-Assemblies, Spare Parts and
Operating Supplies                  10.1      23.3       -         33.4
(6.3)    (10.4)     (-)       (16.7)
Tools and Instrumentation              5.1        -        _          5.1
(1.3)      (-)      (-)        (1.3)
Training and Technical Assistance      -          -        9.0         9.0
C-)       (-)      (2.0)      (2.0)
SNIN Labor                                       1- 6.8              16.8
Total                               39.8      26.6      25.8       92.2
(7.6)    (10.4)     (2.0)     (20.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the
Bank.
63.       Disbursements of the Bank loan will be made on the basis of 100
percent of foreign expenditures for goods and 100 percent of total
expenditures for technical assistance and training. A special account will
be established at a foreign bank out of which SNK wll pay most purchases
of goods and services. The total loan will be disbursed over a period of
2.5 years. The schedule differs from the normal country and industry
profiles by the even distribution of disbursements. This is explained by
the on-going status of the project and the recurrent nature of investments



-20-
and expenditures. Due to SNIM's familiarity with similar procurement and
its desire to reduce bank overdrafts, no delays in disbursements are
expected. Disbursement against all categories will be divided into two
equal tranches of US$10.0 million each. The first tranche covers
disbursements until about June 30, 1987. The second tranche will be
released only after certain actions have taken place, namely:
SNDE shall have:
(i) submitted to the Bank: (a) audited financial statements for
1986, which will help assess the progress made under the first
tranche and define furthar steps; and (b) the Company's long-
term policy for salary levels and structure;
(ii)   achieved:  (a) a production from the Guelbs plant of not less
than 1.0 million tonnes over three consecutive months; (b) the
1986 targets on the reduction of personnel and overtime; and (c)
lowered its bank overdrafts from the December 31, 1985 level by
at least US$ 5.0 million (para. 54); and
(iii) prepared plans and targets, acceptable to the Bank, to be
Implemented and achieved over the 12 mDnths following release of
tranche 2, for: (a) production rate and technical assistance for
the Guelbs plant; and (b) further cost reductions.
the Government shall have:
(i)   completed a study of the public finance aspects of the royalties
on SNIM's ore sales; and
(ii)   agreea with the Bank on the implementation of the recommendations
of this study.
Financial Analysis of SNIM
64.       Financial projections for SNDM  prepared in current US dollars are
based on (i) a production/sales volume of 9.5 million tonnes per year; (ii)
operating costs taking into account the cost reduction achieved in 1984 and
projected additional cost reductions; (iii) an expected reduction of the
iron ore price by 1990 by 7 percent in real terms from its 1984 level; and
(iv) variations In the UM/US dollar exchange rate that compensates for the
differential between Mauritanian price developments and world price
developments as measured by the Manufacturing Unit Value index. Operating
costs were developed on the basis of SNrM's present cost structure and
corrected to allow for expected personnel and material cost reductions as a
result of the proposed Rehabilitation Project measures.
65.       The Rehabilitation Project is expected to bring about a reduction
of: (i) non-labor operating costs, mainly consisting of materials, of 3.8



-21-
percent in real terms for each of the years 1986 and 1987 with no further
decreases thereafter; and (ii) labor costs by about 3.5 percent per year in
real terms (total labor cost in current terms is projected to increase by
only half the rate of inflation). In the period 1985-1990, the projected
savings in labor costs amounts to US$23.0 million and in other operating
costs to US$26.2 million. With these savings, SNIM's cumulative operating
income in the period 1985-1990 is projected at US$138.0 million. SNIM pays
a royalty to the Mauritanian Government amounting to 10 percent of iron ore
sales. The royalty payments correspond to about 40 percent of the internal
cash generation. The level of royalty is high compared to that paId by
SNIM's competitors. Assurances were obtained that the Government undertake
a study of the public finance aspects of the royalties. Terms of reference
for the study together with a proposed implementation schedule has been
submitted to the Bank. Agreement on implementation of the study's
recommendations is a condition of release of the second tranche of the
loan.
66.       SNIM's financial performance is highly sensitive to variations in
iron ore prices, sales volume, and cost savings. With total sales in the
period 1985-90 forecast at about US$1.2 billion, a US$0.1/t reduction in
the assumed price of iron ore throughout that period would increase the net
financing need by about US$5 million for that period. Without the
Rehabilitation Project, production and sales volume would likely be lower
by at least 10 percent, given the technical and managerial efforts
envisaged under the Project, and the result would be a net financing need
for the 1985-90 period of US$100 million (or 75 percent of projected
royalty payments during that period).
67.       The sensitivity analysis shows that any adverse deviation from
the base case can seriously curtail SNIM's availability of funds. Since
the trust and set-aside agreements ensure that foreign debtors and
suppliers are paid their dues (para. 60), any cash shortfall will reduce
the funds available for the payment of local inputs, i.e. labor, and for
the royalty to the Government. The labor force is large by international
standards and wages and salaries are high by Mauritanian standards;
similarly, the level of royalty is high compared to that paid by SNIM's
competitors. Consequently, a cash shortfall can potentially be cushioned
by reductions in royalty payments and further cuts in labor cost.
Project Benefits and Risks
68.       Benefits.  SNIM is a valuable asset to Mauritania in its capacity
as an essential source of foreign exchange earnings for the Mauritanian
economy.  Strengthening of SNIM's ability to generate foreign exchange is
essential to assist the Government's investment effort in non-mining
activities, and to support its strategy of diversification of its economic
structure. Through efforts to enhance SNIM's international competitive-
ness, the Project's principal benefit is to preserve SNIM as a financially
viable enterprise contributing positively to the Mauritanian economy. The
economic rate of return of the Project is 25 percent, and the financial
rate of return is 21 percent. The economic rate of return is most



-22-
sensitive to the basic assumption made concerning the cost saving effects
of the Project. The economic rate of return is reduced to 15 percent (i)
if cost savings are 57 percent below the appraisal value, (li) if project
cost is 40 percent higher than appraisal value, or (iii) if iron ore prices
are 26 percent below the appraisal base case. The economic rate of return
of the Guelbs Project, given actual project cost, current forecasts of iron
ore prices and updated estimates of production costs, is 2 percent; the
economic rate of return of the Guelbs Project, combined with the
Rehabilitation Project, is 5 percent. Net Incremental foreign exchange
benefits of the Project average US$8 million per year in constant 1985
terms over the next ten years; SNIM's overall net foreign exchange earnings
average US$57 million in constant 1985 terms over the same period.
69.       Risks.  The major sources of the substantial financial risk
facing the Project are: (i) adverse changes in iron ore prices; and (ii)
possible failure to Implement appropriately and in a timely fashion the
cost savings and financial measures of the Project.  A conservative iron
ore price forecast based on a thorough market analysis was used, reducing
the risk of lower than estimated iron ore prices. As to the achievement oi
the expected effects of the Project, the training and technical assistance
components, as well as the close monitoring of the implementation of the
Rehabilitation Program including frequent progress reporting, reduce the
risk of delayed and deficient implementation. It is the exact purpose of
the Project to limit SNIM's financial risk.  In view of the importance of
SNIM to the economy, the Government will have to take all necessary steps
to ensure the viability of the Company. As a last resort, therefore, any
cash shortfalls can potentially be cushioned by further cuts in labor costs
or royalty payments (para. 67).
70.       To a lesser degree, the Project also faces managerial, commercial
and technical risks, which have been minimized through extensive project
preparation and the fact that SNIM has already successfully started its
rehabilitation program.
PART V - RECONMENDATION
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recomnd that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 12, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-23-                                                   ANNEX 1
r A * L C  34                                               Page  1 of 6
NJrIMIA               -SAL IUICAT D 0           U4TA
-                                     aaXex~~~~~~~~~~~~mTMa.               _|cgrm   ca         GN    Nwg ]      /a
mmS                      (MM 330511? 52DT ) lb
19mtIb     19d   1053              323013 130833         31OLE W
nT   n/ b      AMCL AS. OF $AMU    R. AMCR A MD US
-  (Tinu. m)                                                                                                -
TOTL                             1030.7      1030.7     1030.7
*13101L1123*L                    935.1       395.3      394.6
m   M  cm  Co)                         ..         ..       40.0              1063.8                   1123.9
-    min 10      m  DelT
(xKELG lU Or OIL IQhAt=n           12.0      114.0       121.0             511.5                   623.9
POUAT0 a  VEUL UISIUS
Opa osIoUm.I-T  (1i05S*M)    981.0           1227.5     1629.0
1gum3 POLI03 CZ OF TOTAL)           3.4        12.        25.3              32.0                     69.0
PoPULATIOS II TMA 2000 CHILL                            2.6
rSTATIAS? PoPUUI CH(LL)                                 8.0
1 1o LATZ0U 1368                                         1.8
IOIULATIOS  WET
1  SQ. M.                         1.0        1.2        1.6               65.1                     D7.5
PH SQ. I. AGIM. LW1               2.5        3.1        4.0              124.8                    470.t
POIUATXOS AGE STRUCfUUE CZ)
0-16 Us                         43.9       45.2        43.5              45.6                     43.3
w-" Us                           52.3       51.J       53.2               51.5                    53.0
65 AM ASOUW                       2.         2.7        3.2                2.7                      3.2
1OPULAITIO  GRUNS KA=  CZ)
TOTAL                             2.2        2.2        2.2                2.9                      2.
DUAR                             16.2        15.S        8.0               5.1                      4.6
cM     K      uRAZE (CrK  T130S)   44.        4.I        42.0               47.0                    40.0
033  W= IATE CPU lEAS)             27.1       23.9        1.                10.0                     11.5
Gc1SS REPROOCIU RAT                 2.9        2.9        3.0                3.2                     2.S
FAN=5. PLAIMEW,
ASPTrMS. ANNUAZ. (..-005)
USERS (Z or AuR3M ,,1)            ..10                             *       64                      1.4
= or FOOD 1300. 113 CAPT
(1969-71-100)                     107.0      102.0       6.0                82.9                   9f.1
CALO-- B  (Z0O oFQr  _ UXrS)    100.0 6O.0             105.0              9.5                     I1.2
P20MM  (CRME m AmC               88.0       78.0       61.0               55.4                    7
Of Ml=  *1D8L AM PULSE          30.0       48.0       4.0 Ic             16.5                     17A
CU1D CAS 1-4) DEAT RA*             45.2       36.5       26.0               18A                     12.8
LZJi 02 . AT tIEU (TER)            38.7       42.        45.6               52.0                    57.8
nwur w. VA= (M  Tana              164.5      161.5      136.0              1U.                      96.8
A=S5 TO SA*1 VAY  (310)
AL                                .         17.0       84.0 d             42A                     67.2
u3                                 .         8          0.07              67.5                    932.
33u*L                             ..         10.0      15.0               35.                     45.8
A=35 TO  FEYA DISOAL
C OF P0ULAUO)
TOTAL                             ..          .1.0                        23.9                    45.9
M                                 ..          ..         5.0              57.7                    63.0
RuRmL                             ..                     .                20.7                    28.6
POPOLATIOE PU PffSICCIAM        4080.      18050.0    16350.0           11731.7                   331.0
POP. Mr NUNS   P0                590.0 /a  4530.0      2050.0 2_5.8                               1845.0
PM. PM  oiIAL 3Z
TOA                            4830.0      2920.0     2610.0 Ic f        981.1                   621.8
URBAN                                      700.0      1310.0 2e 36                               545.0
Rom                            5270.0 I.f 5430.0      3710.0             3 4271.9               2511.3
A*IXSSZS Pm  SIXTAL  M                          .          ..               27.2                    25.7
AN   S= OFr HOSMD
AVERA3 M.2 0r FZSO0WM
TOMA
123*                              ..          ..         .                  ..
RORAL                             ..          ..         _.
*V33u  3D. or PRsnoUSIoUI
TOML                              ..          ..
03.4                              ..          .....
UIUAL                             ..          ..         .                  ..
PDE?G  OF D;n.zsuuSLI.
TTL                               ..          ..         .                  ..
551                               ..         ..          ....
asL.                                         .           .... 
. - ~ ~ ~ RPT



-24-                                                 AM= I
T A S L  3                                             Page 2 of 6
URITAI                 - SOCIAL IOICATOS  DATA iNSE
WSITXAMIA                           %BVEENCEZ GROUPS (uICITm  AVERAGE) a
MOST                     (mm  usd8? 8STKW) A
RECTlb NMIDDL INDS                      NDOL imciu
1960&      1970'-J  EStIRAJ       AFRICA S. OV SMIAR    M. AuCA 6K M AT
ADJUST EDROUJENT RAXIOS
PRI1ARTi  TOTAL                   3.0        14.0        33.0 Id           95.7                     89.3
WISL                   13.0       20.0        43.0 7r          100.0                    103.7
FILE                    3.0        6.0        23.0 Id           83.2                     7b.2
SECONDAR: TOTAL                   0.4         2.0        10.0 Id           17.3                     42.Y
MALZ                    1.0        *.0        16.0 7-           25.0                     50.9
wAZ                    0.0          ..          .o 7i           14.                      34.6
vOcAToiL Jz (o e SECoNDAdZ)          ..        12.5         4.5 /d            5.9                     10.0
VPIXL-TEACIU RATIO
IRLEARE                          20.0        24.0        41.0 Id           41.1                     29.7
SUCMMXI                          17.0        24.0        25.0 7j           25.5                    1sJ
PASSICT  CAR/TaOSAND MP             0.4         3.3         ..               20.6                     17.1
DDO IECXIVERS/TOIIWSAID POP         12.2       44.3       119.1             107.8                    175.9
TV lEo-ErSITROIUSAID OPF             ..         ..          ..               2O.S                     51.2
1.EUVAPERt ("DAtI GENMRAL
DITESI ") CnRQJLATI
P  TNOUSIIAD 01ULATO                ..         2.3 h       ..               13.4                     37.2
CzA AAL  ATTEwDArAnATA              ..          ..          0.3 Ie            0.4                      2.4
TOTAL LABO1K F1OR    MoS)          303.0      366.0       482.0
lIoo   (PERCENT)                  3.S         4.1         4.4              36.2                     11.0
AIOCLTUEE C(ECENT)               91.0       38.0    e 9.0 /d               .4.5                     42.6
DINuSIf (PECEr)                   3.0         4.0          .0c id          18.3                     27.9
'ARTIXATIX   RATE (PRCUENT)
iOTAL                             30.9       29.3        29.6              36.8                     2b.2
NiAL                              59.3       57.8        56.9              47.1                     46.2
13361                             2.3         2..         2.6              27.2                      5.S
EUONOMIC DEPIRDE    RATIO           1.5         1.6         1.6               1.3                      1.3
-wm mcumsnu
PVEWIL OF PRiATE INCOW
slGOES  su or uousuuomo            . 
RIdERS 20Z OF U.IIUEOTJ            .          .
LOWEST 202 OF HUOSENIOLDS          ..
WERST AM OF nUsEoo D
LEVE (00 MRE CAPITA)
ir                                ..          ..          ..              590.7                    226.3
2N IRU         S           ..         ..        110.0  .          273.3                    131.0
-SILI  WZATE  PFrNST! ISCOWE
LEVE (US$ FIR CAPITA)
iLDM                               ..         ..        40.0              545.6                    43..3
RURAL                             ..          ..          ..              201.1                    32b.0
ESTDMMIED POP. KIWI ABSOLUTE3
loESeT IRol LVl (2)
ulN                               ..          ..          .                9.                       2.
USMAL                             ..           .          .0                .. 2J.0
UT AVAILAR
MUT APILICAEA
M .    T              0               2
/a ThM secp avawaa far easch fadleatat are populatLoo-uelhted autcmtLe smsa. Coveagee of cwamEcA..
annag the Iadieatona dqpmenia n swailabIllty at data and In eat uelfom.
lb 5.1*. ochawlee noted. 'Data faw 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" betunes
. 969 ed 1971; an  data far "Kee Recet Estimate" between 1981 and 1933.
/c  1977;  d 1980l I. 1962: If Cawernen hoapital eytablsenta; cr 1973; lb 1972.
Juim, 1985



-25-                              ~~~~~~ANNEX 1
-25-                                           AN-
Page 3 of 6
DWNITIOPM  OF SOCAL INDIWATOS
NoS Altbhugh Sed1am ame dawn trom snn cmneuiy jtpd he mo afthmozand rlabl it siod aim be noedwi tha     may not be ntemuau ly
cmpaable bcme of the lae of _andird ddelit  and comafte ud by dierst comaun in ceing the dax. The data ar nonheless uefl to
dScritue rer omagnitude.1 In     and dchuscmri celtailnjo dfert  be-wam cunziLe
The rene aegroups -(I) t  e  couy Wr  of t subecoulyand  )* es  group with somewhat highe    me   the thecotary
u ofitc aubjec cotry (_ep for 'Hlg lmnu Oil Honwe pomp whe  Middle lacme Norh Arnca ad MiddleEme sabde becus orsrone
mocochwaiSide) In the aWbemop dais th enin - popuaim weightd awitmetic nuata for el idcor nd shawe only uwhen ajonty
of the Couiurh ina gro  hm data for tht idlot Sine the covage ofcoun among the iadiaodend - the availaility ordata and is not udrniln
caeo mum be earcmd i elg asema oron idiator to snoUts luea aveag ae only seul In coanpaing c  v fe doe inditr ata tte among
the coasuy and aba  Fpoup
AREA (thousd sq.km.)                                           mfrdeir h B Rat (pkn  mmot)-Nublitroffive births in tbc year
Tea-ToWl surfae area  mpsing land ars and i-land waters      per thousand of mid-year population; 1960,1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                    Crud Deh {r ae(perAatmauO-Numberordatths in tbe year
ArZreWS  L--'- of agricultural ae used temporarily or        prthousad of mid-year population; 1960.1970. and 1983 data.
pennaneady for cops. paurs market and kitchen arden or to    Grew Repeduia  Rao-Average number of dautghtesa woman
lie raIOW, 1960. 1970 and 1932 data.                         wii bear in her normal reproductive period ir s  e
prst age-pecific fertit   ter ulby five-year avrge ending
CNP PER CAPFEA (WS)-N  per capita estimate at cinent         in 1960.1970. and 1983.
market paces calculated by same conversion method as World   ~     f      -e.l                tes-nulsut
Dea* Auaw (193143 basis)k 1933 data.FM&Ao    Amoak-nulnm
Xtbs(19B1Z83b ylzdtsin mSb Worbberoracporsebirtliactrol devi= uneraupicceifoatonal
EECY CONSUM          ON PER CAPIA-Annual apparent            f Jy p i  prmgrum.
consumption of commerc  primary enerV   (cal and lipit,      FMt  ?hw f-46Wn (pett              h Eepe numa)-The pecn-
petrolm natual gS ad hydra-. nudecr and geotmal  ec-         tge  murnd women of child-bearing ag who ar pacng or
tricity) in kiogrm  of oil equivalt per capita: 1960, 190. and  whose husbands ae practicing any fom ocontraeption. Women
198 data.                                                    of child-bearing age ar generay women ad 15-49. althougb for
some countries contracepive usae is measured for other we
POPLAION AND VITAL STATISFICS                               groupL
ad lBpdatria, Mid-Yew (themu)-As ofJuly 1; 1960. 1970.      FOOD AND NUTl       MON
and 1933 data.
Lu&xrof Feed P.dw do. Per Capita (1969-71 -' 1N-lrsdex of per
Ur5_ hpuls. (pea wc w    tetudl-Ratio of urban to total    capit anntual production of al food commoditis Production
population.dilrent definio  ofurban ars may affect compar-   zdudes animal feed and seed for asgrcultur Food commodities
abiity of data amog countries; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data    include  imary commodities (e.g. srcne intad of sugar)
_puIAtimh*C*m                                                which are edible and contain nutrinots (e.g. coffe and tea ae
Popstah    yewr 200-Tbe projction of population for 2000.    exdudedk they compnse cereals, root crops. pubs  oil seeds
made for eah economy sprately. Stig with  formaution on      ve    ls, frits nuts, sugara  and sugar bee  livodc. ad
total populio by age and sex, fertility rae mortaliy rate and  livestock products Aweat pouctio ofeac country is based
IntemnIon  migration in the bae year 1980. these paruaeters  on national avea  producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970, and
were projected at five-year interval on the basis of gealized  1982 data.
asumption until the population became stationary.            Air CGp_a Sup  qfCaoes g G fpwc afre ommer)-Couput-
S mad ypopuluiim-Is o-e in which age- and sex-specific mar-    ed from calorie equivalent of ne food supplies avaible in country
tality res bavenotchnd overa log period wileagpecific        per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
eartity rat  have simultaneously nmaied at replaement kvel    tion. imports less ecports and changes in stock Net supplies
(net reproduction rate- 1). In such a populaion, the birth rate is    exdude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equl to the deat rate the age structure is also  food procesing. and losses in distribution. Requrements were
const, and the growth raft is z'. The stationary popuation   estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
siw was estmated on the basis of the projected ebaracteistis of  and health considering environmenal temperature body weights.
the popultion in the yr 2000. and the rate of dedine of fertility  age and sex distribution ofpopulatio  and allowing 10 prcent for
rte to repacement leve-                                      waste at household level; 1961. 1970 an 1992 data.
ftpedls Mo Asm-Is the tenency for population growth to       ft CIpS Subly of  w' (ms per dayl-Pwtein content of
con-inu bqond the time that rplment-led fertity has been     per capita net supply offood perday. Net supply offoodisdefined
adieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries cstablished by USDA
unity. The momentum ofa population in the year t is mesured as  provide for minimum aLowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultiate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of anima and puls protein. of which 10 grans
the year t. given the assumption that ferility remains at replace-  should be animal proteu  These standards are lower tha those of
ment level from year s onwad, 1935 data.                     7S grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protei as an
- S _  D_sjg                                                 average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqhu -Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hc-  Supplr. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of tota ar; 1960. 1970, and 1983 dat.                 Ahr Cpita hetn  Suppl Frem Aaleud-Parotein supply
hr sgqA   gfaarceavi Lad-Computed as above for agricultural  ofroo ddeived from animals and pulsesin grans per day, 196165.
land only, 1960,1970. and 1982 data.                         1970 and 1977 data.
Pedse Age Statue (pfcait)-Children (0-14 years). work-       CMdd (aes 1-4) Deat RA  ftrperh.tds-Number ofdaths of
ing ae (15.64 year). ad retred (65 yes and over) as prcentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year populaion; 1960. 1970, and 1933 data.            group in a pven year. For most developing countries data derived
puta Gth RAte (peeau     growth rates of                     from life tables 1960. 1970 and 1933 data.
total mid-yer popultion for 1950-f0. 1960-70. and 1970-83.   IE rH
Pepdsim Gwh Rate (Annul growth rates                         Lif E_rpecsmu  a Sri (jreesI-Number uf years a newborn
of urban popultion for 195-60, 1960-70, and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-26-                                          ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the nne of of its birth wrc to sat the same tmroughout its lirc  PuP&-teror Ratio - priwary. ad seundar   Total students en-
1960. 1970 nd 1983 data.                                     roldW  in priny and secondary kwls divided by numbes of
_ A    r y        (prt__J-Num tr of infants who die            achebr in thi owrsponding levds.
before reahing ow ypr of ae  per thoud five births in a in
yer. 160. 1970 and 1983 dta.                                 CONSUmpolN
Ae    t Sd*  Wow (p           .,m )- "NC Wo, ml                       C, - pJs r __9thmi p  a' vbm-Panconger cam wm-
oWe-Number of people (totaL wa  ad a un    with reasonable   pri motor cas  mg ss fta eight peooss excdudes ambul-
awm to oae watr aoply (inldes tuted surfe watr or            sumcs. bhoss and milita y vehices.
unteaW but         _        twaer w ucs as that from protcted    l i R1wLIS (p m dtho  pepah5m)-Al types of reivers
boul*.sprngs md  itnay wdl) as peetaogs of ttheir pc-        kfr rdio    d     to  ml  public per thnd or populstion:
tive populations. In an un  are a pubic rounain or tandpost    excludes ian- d  civas jD countries and in yca  what
locatd ot more thn 200me   fnkm a hou  way be c                   mimi of radio sets ws in effect; data for reacnt yenrs may
being witbin raable wm  of that houe  In rural              not be compaable sinc most cuntries abolsh  icesing.
reasonableast ouYX ld imy tha the houwife or members of the
househad do not have to spend a disproportiona  par of te day  TVAw d.(pefl-4U5mlpepdETdI lVivr5sforbroadca
in rth   the           r d                                   to geral pubbc per thousnd populati    clude  nlosed TV
Acecrto Excras  D_psld (p tw  !f.,het.-4ml-     , s,         rece.ivrsi countries and in years wbh  registration of TV ss was
md rima-Number of peoplk (total, urban. and nural) served by  in
exncret disposal as pacentages of ter resctivc populations.  AGw        Cfrmfai  (' IkonsmipapumuriwJ-Shows the aver-
Exc  dispowl may include the colection and disposal vith or  age cculation of 'daiy seneral mterest newspaper.' defined as a
witbout urant, of human exra and waste-water by water-       peiodbc pubicion devoted pmarily to ecording general ews.
borne systms or dth use of pit pfivies and similr insutlations.  It is considered to be daily ifit appean at last four nimes a week.
Apdir  per P*ys.-lPopulauon divided by number of prac-       Gm         A_ni Ateadawe per Cira per )--Based on the
tising physicians qualfied from a medical school at univCrsity  vj.  number of tickets sold during the year. induding admission to
ft Wren per Nhag P  ma-Population divided by number or       drive-in anenas and mobile units.
pracidng male  nd fdae graduate nurses, assiStant nurseF
practa nurses and nursing auxiaries.                         LABOR FORCE
_ a  cr limpid I   f.  w. ml pus'      p'- ion       JAbr  J i              nir             activ peso in-
(tol  rb   ad  ru) dividd  by their r      ive  number of    duding armed forcs and unempkoyed but excluding housewie.;
(totspwbahmd ruralb dedaby thErrespectwnandpmbeialiraord    students. etc.. coverng population of al ages. Ddinitons in
hospita beds availablemi publi and pmmiat. generl            vaiosconrisarsotcmprbl,190 17 ad193daa
hospitals and  hilation cnters. Hosital abr establishments   vaious anunes am not c       k    1960,1970 nd 19S3 data
pemnenty staffed by at kemst one physkic   Esablishments prov-  mAk (jifpva)-Femmak labor fore as p   tage of toal bbor
iding pincipaly custodil care ae not icludedL Rurl hospitals.    foiw-
bowc.v ielude balth and mediclnts not pemanently saffed      Agrki-ue (pjmint-Labor forn in broung. forestry. huing
by a pbysician (but by a medical assistnt, nurs, midwn   etc.)  wnd fishig as p _nta  of ttal labor foc. 1960. 1970 and 1980
wbich odlr ia-pdint awomnmodation and providc a limed rng    data.
ofmedial facili                                              lAirry (perceue-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
AbIdi   ler p  sIYasd   d-Toatl number of admissions to or   facturing and elericity. water and gas as pcntage of total labor
disdhes from hospitals divided by the number of beds.        force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
P*rcsdm Roe (pffe)-EoeaI, mule nlrmele-Pcpation
HOUSEi]G                                                     or activity rates are computed as totaL male: and female labor force
ApoW    She of AHweAld (pawsr jw  &mxxdWIO-W, whm,           as pecentages of totaL  ale and female population of a  ages
ml,uwl-A household consists of a group of individuals wbho share  mpectivel- 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. Tbese are based on ILO's
lvig quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  paticipation rates rfecting age-  strcture ofthe population, and
may not be induded in the bousehold for sttstil purposes.    long tine trend. A few cstimates are from national souces
AvrAlexber of Personas per Reoo rn tal, whe. -l vera!-       Ecmic Dipexhuwy  Rado-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of pesons per room in a  urban. and nual      65 and over. to the working age popubtion (those aged 15-64).
occunied conventional dwdllns rsectivey. Dwdlings exdude
non-pmaent sttures and unoid parts.                          INCOME DSTRIBUTION
Pffasqe ofDwE    wh Ebw**yt-avr4 mba. -dwal-                 Pffeinqe of Te0 Ddassik humw (Oath in eh md kimdi-
Convetonal dweinpgwithetricty invingqurtersas percen-        Accruing to pnile groups of households ranked by tol house-
tag of totaL urban. and rural dwelings espetively            hold income.
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS                                             f
A#mE   A          ps,                                       The fogowing estmates are very approximatc mwasures of poverty
ft1aory  adbel - torsa. mak   ml e-s   totaL mate and k lvels, and should be intcrpreted with considerable caution.
femaie enrollment of aD ags at the primary lcvd as pctaes of  EAr,dAhs.he Poverty lacim ew  d ((1Sf per espiaJ-ortam
reset- pmary  ool-ag popations While many countri            and w,d-Absolute poverty income lvd is that income levd
consider prinary chool age to be 6-1I years, others do not. The  bdow which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differns in country practices in the ags and dwation of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios givn. For some countries with universal  ed Reke Prory hwme Lewd (Sf per cWwaI-wiaa
education  gross enrolment may exed 100 percent sine some    ml rmaW-Rural relative -poverty income kid is one-third of
pupis amr below or above the country's standard primary-school  averag per capita personal incomc of the country. Urban kvel is
age.                                                         derived from the rural lvel with adjustment for higher cost of
Sccvdory scihool - reod. nJ mdfmale-nComputed as above:       ving in urban a
secrday education rquires at least four years of approved pri-  Eisred Pepatiu Beuw Ahsdwe P,ruy lucw LAwd (per-
mary  aon; provids gencraL votonal or teacher tning          ca    nt)-arhan md *ral- Pncent or population (urban and rural
insuctions for pupils usualy of 12 to 17 years or ag  correspond-  who ae -absolute poor.'
enoe omes ae gerally ecluded.
Vocation   ral Earoie (pe rcmr of mec ry)-Vocational institu-          Comparative Analysis and Data Division
lions indude tecmicaL industriaL or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
indepdently or as departments of secondary insitutions.                              June 1985



-27-                                         ANNE  I
Pa2e 5 of 6
-X -
mms AUIAL D0l~ 13 19L                                  aii*  NAZ 60         ft" isci.u   r
035 Ittn.   %               197-1 (A.)  1D796   191
0?art bat PrcE.                664       10.0                     .5       3.0      4.2
Croe Daetic  _taWe.t           1U2.2      23.7                   S2.1     21.6     12.7
*                            GRoin latlem  5a2              -743      -10.9
Curet A4nut Ualc              -1*.2      27.5
Kaporta DI G.d.. 15S           31.0      49.3                   t-.2      24.8     t1.0
lpraof Cd, HIIS             inl.?     7.6                     2.6     US.2     19
a f. Urn   .- IS0 PUCIP2  D3 196
Vale Adde             ao to_c                   V.A. .r Vobr
ISSltl..   %          Thaumaid 
Aicltot               197.0     30J           6.6      64               64          .1
IUUUtI                162.3      NJ S42.9               9              4,269.     311.2
Seia eadUnalocated 260.4    40.7            126.5      27              2.026.S    10.7
Sotal/Avrg         639.7    100.0         476       100.0           1,4.9    100.0
0 m_mi m  F
0I lKi.           Iecet or 0
196'.   1961.      196013 CA..)
C     ?ri  acit10,296                 22.3          16.6
Cur.. Exefitu            -10,46          22.7          24.2
Curreut 1Salne              -117           .3           7.4
Capital Expenditur          -72           LI           15.6
01eal Jaic                  -692          1.9          23.1
EXtarul Aaeitm   ( tet)    5J3#          11l           23.2
1631K. c3Emr ueD PRS~
196      1962     93       161
(3111k. 00 Outt atdin  etdleio)
I_ne mad QIIU-OW                9,430     9,245      10,063   11,000
Clai, s  ConetrA                 2,43      4,609      5,143    3,142
Clai  as Frrta Sector           11.263    11,632     22,962   14,300
t?rmae or laa   .r)
> ~ ~ ~ ~~Isa m_  d    aiIoe as 4o eE l               23.6     24         23.4      23.6
Canral Prc  n    1 t960 - 100)    2121.9    121.3    127.2     142.1
Annual Pretae  Ca_e isa
Cueoal Pric  ne                   11.9      6..        4.9      11.S
Claim. - _o.e                     49.3     69..       11.6       0.0
Clam  as Priat Sector             U1.7      S.1        9.4      12.0
Oota: Al  ouealn to dollar Intin C tleb *r  t tho ve    emag rate
prealt auin  the period coeed.
Set,r 1963



-28-
ANME 1
Page 6 of 6
VA. -aXs OmD CI w PM
ULA   o rnasW                                                                     _________ (19814  b.)
1973    1977     199      1963    198                  _                       I
I    on              145.0     52.2
Jidi Pw              126.1     45.4
NO= OE Gcf   , NS               144.7    178.4   3123    372.9   3360         All Otbd  C 1dz        6.9      2.4
bWq    of ci f   WS            -154.8  -373.8  -63.8   617.0   411.7
1AMMx  Gq (df k -t                      -1S. ---    .1 :S t311  7:r    JIM!       TheAl            278       100.0
lt    t     P I- C)              -2.0    -14.6   -34.9   -386    -24.6
Wadrt'S PA_I t                  -145 S    U.6   -30.7   -23.0   -189
Otbr  Fau  1W 3       t3         -S. 1     3.5    18.4    16.4    19.1
Noe e zm                         31.2   12D.4    84.5   '61.1    29.9          EL  mm, a of D w  31, 194
Bml~      c    t .               -111.5z6   :91M    :W  - 170.2
D1xe Foudn  _wtm                 10.3      4.4    14.9        .8    12.5      AE  D6e,  cL  pu _                1.170.5
k: M 6  La  It Brw g              8.6    55.4    2D6.1    172.2    59.3      Nopmnrtidmul YebeI
DIi ums                        (11.0)   (87.5)  (Z22.0)  (194.8)  (106.1)    Total 0bwdh. ad Dix1               17.176
(-2.4)  (-32.1)  (-15.9)  (-22.6)  (-46J)
Capl eaG                          8.4    13.6    31.0       18.5    47.0
Otb  COu1 (MO                   -14.2    -1.9 @ -19.6        7.4   -10.9    DEM- SU2  W         U  19U4 1/   2
Cdi. I"= t6L.                   -13.2    -0.9
auu in Offldl 1                  -.7    -43.0   -48.8   -29.3   -623         Ptb1b   Ddit. 4t. Gama.d           23.6
Nmura_a.d P   D*t
Total 0         ad D_             23.6
cm. Official MPi
(ad yr)                       43.7    56.6    125.5    134.S    96.7
.L ad  Pim c 1.IMIN
Turt                         ..       ..       ..      ..        .
of dddb: PGt=1m             9.9    30.6    63.0    53.6    4ZS
Boftt                         -        -       7.1   2M.8
,,f dib: PcmIsm             -        -       7.1    20.8       ..         IEDIM      lC a cE    xw  31, 1991
RA~~~~~~~~~~ W    -~~~~~~W   LS
C~.ad_ adD*U1  ld7   6X
M15.OO -                       44.5    52.2    51.8    54.0    63.8         UOI1brgd                       0     4U.9
stdi  I_             m d   57.0   1153
IJ Rai* of dabt                  of so,b and in-ftu savim
Nmw 



-29-
AMU 2
Paoe I of 2
I 0S OF B ( ERIP CR3ATUD   DI WMAEA
A. Stadt of Euclams ad MID Cred:its
(as of Septuew 30, 1985)
hAnt (less ca*-lnti)
* Lamor                                                                   B.k  ML  _n_____
Credit 1Nuhe    Year   Bonww      RuM
M Tam md! Te Credits fuflly disbursd                                     126.0   38.9          0.00
888M    a 1979   Nwni1a  Ur  and Rund Develqpiat                                 8.0          0.46
1068UU-        1981    ArtWAA  Gorgl roIlatI                                     15.0          3.65
1175aD         1982   thritada  Petwimu                                           3.0          1.33
12144          1982   1owlita    Seod Jaicatic                                    5.7          2.70
1231-M         1982   M1wita  FPcrth H1~mmy                                       4.0          2.97
1292           1982   Nlda    Seczid T lcal Asdldtg                               4.6          2.98
1414-a         1983  lbzitda  Seared Tedda As              to                    8.1          5.0
Rural Sector
1567-W         1995   NmzItuda  Pdilic Noepris Tedmical Assistave                16.40        16.40
3/                          and RdeImlItation
1571-M         1985    Nitmdn   i.11 Scsl Irrptima                                7.50         7.50
1572iU_        1985   bwiitmda  Industral ad Artim DeuelIt                        5.25         5.25
TOM                                                       126.0  116.45        48.24
of idi bos bem repad                                     72.0    2.26
Total nmw outstaoding                                     54.0  114.19
Asmt scld                 63.4
of srdi hbas bee repaid 63.4
Total hw bald by Bank and I                               54.0  l4. 19
Total udiabarued                                       0.00  48.24        48.24
1/ Pror to cdmig adjuats.
2/ DB.dzig idwth Credit 1068-MW, credits bme bem            In Spedal
Dradng its.  1he do]lI  amunts In t1e cohi -s represant the dolla
eiptv.lmtsat the tim of credit     t       for the ML m.mts and the
dollr  equvalets as of lkrd 31. 1985, for the undiawsed, ammzts.
31 Not yet effecve.
* Tae stat  of the proJect listed In Part A Is decribed in a separate    r an all Book IDA finmial
projects In emmmi, bhdih is pdated bdce yeary and cirulated to the Banotive Directors an April 30
and Octdber 31.



-30-
ARM 2
Pare 2 of 2
B. Statint of IE  InvesDt_
(as of Sq*m6w 30, 1965)
Fiscal~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
yew  CbI*w~~~>p TaN of Ad=                                TaRn    Wt;y   Total
195      Sada               ,$ IIS$ i1
Total GEM cbientu                                    1.21      _      1.2
.is         _es  i   qa_                                       _ 
Tinu-t1m  lPqAP ts ud SOla                         --               -
Motal dmits am beld by tiC                           -        -
a.a _ _me
1/ P3e. tae that Initmt            bas wt beam s1gM yet.



I BRD 19048
MAURITANIA
SNIM REHABILITATlON EPROJEC
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-  -- liQe  -  maf
--PAVEDD fOM UNDIR OWTRUvlON
-          0       ,RAVL ROADS        -       ' '
** -.4--   HAILR OADS                         .    -,Ir                   
-100- -NUAL RAMA" .         .LU                         M     R     C
- O"----- --                                                                            ALGERIA
.   -     HltiNAOR|MARIt4E
ne 7UATUN
SJLPI4U
EIDHIIATITIERPD IVO
_   *lOI.TSTNTE|||ml4OF JoI   t               , -    -    -\24
.   -   THEfONsStA"ISHSF-                                                                  I
-  -    t'  /                     EW~~F erNl GST                                             j MAL I
*                                        DeIk      MINING SITE                                       jM L
,.    o                                                (See Aap IBRo  75049)
-- N..dhibftl 
*   0C hinkuefti                                           i
::  ff, '   oo1                                     , *>IPWiE                      
-    NOtJICH Ti|                        Moudjeria /{/                           
". ',,00''\ , S                                                                                                tOO
gbNem0  200
-  -St. Louij                                                                                             3 0 6
- - . ,} 500 ^z\\ \ sa _S_ } ,600                                        70
- -Bake              ?\                        M A  L    I
. , ~S E N E G A L   _- --,_
JULY 1985



MAURITANIA
SNIM  REHAILITATION PROJECT                                                            U
Site Plan of Kedia Mining Operations and                                            ELRHEINGUCL 
Location of the Eastern Guelbs
IIA 01 M  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. WiAWGN 0GULD
.  C  -- '                                                          J



