                                Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR2638




            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (P106927)


                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$36.75 MILLION

                                TO THE
                       GOVERNMENT OF SOUTH SUDAN

                              FOR A
    SOUTH SUDAN MULTI-DONOR TRUST FUND HIV/AIDS PROJECT (P106927)




                                June 20, 2013




Human Development Network
AFTHE
Africa Region
                                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                  (Exchange Rate Effective June 2012)
                                   Currency Unit = USD
                                          SDR 1 = US$ 1.51
                                          US$ 1 = SDR 0.66

                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                          July 1  –   June 30

                                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS          Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ANC           Antenatal Care
ARV           Antiretroviral Drugs
CBO           Community Based Organization
CDC           Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
CSO           Civil Society Organization
FBO           Faith Based Organization
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
Global Fund   Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria
GoSS          Government of South Sudan
HIV           Human Immunodeficiency virus
HMIS          Health Management Information System
HMSF          HIV/AIDS Multisectoral Strategic Framework
IDA           International Development Association
ISR           Implementation Status Report
JAM           Joint Assessment Mission
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MAP           Multi-Country AIDS Project in Africa Region
MARP          Most at Risk Population
MDTF          Multi Donor Trust Fund
MoH           Ministry of Health
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
PEPFAR        President’s Emergency Plan for HIV/AIDS Relief
PLWHA         People Living With HIV/AIDS
PMTCT         Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission of HIV Infection
SSAC          South Sudan HIV/AIDS Commission
STI           Sexually Transmitted Infection
TA            Technical Assistance
TB            Tuberculosis
THM           Transitional Health Funds from GFATM
UNAIDS        Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS
UNFPA         United Nations Population Fund
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
VCT           Voluntary Counseling and Testing
WHO           World Health Organization

                       Vice President:            Makhtar Diop
                       Country Director:          Bella Bird
                       Sector Manager:            Olusoji O. Adeyi
                       Project Team Leader:       Mohamed Ali Kamil
                       ICR Team Leader:           Mohamed Ali Kamil
                       ICR Author:                Prabhat Jha
                           SOUTH SUDAN MULTI-DONOR TRUST FUND HIV/AIDS PROJECT
                                                                   CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph
1.	      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................... 1
2.	      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .......................................................... 7
4.	      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 19
5.	      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................................. 21
6.	      Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 22
7.	      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners....................... 23
      Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................... 24
      Annex 2: Outputs by Component ............................................................................................. 25
      Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 30
      Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........................ 35
      Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 36
      Annex 6: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results .............................................................. 36
      Annex 7: Summary of Recipient’s ICR .................................................................................... 37
      Annex 8: Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................. 46
      Annex 9: List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 47
      MAP .......................................................................................................................................... 48
A. Basic Information
                                                                                        South Sudan Multi-Donor
Country:                   South Sudan                     Project Name:                Trust Fund HIV/AIDS
                                                                                        Project
Project ID:                P106927                         L/C/TF Number(s):            TF-91518
ICR Date:                  April 23, 2013                  ICR Type:                    Core ICR
Lending Instrument:        ERL                             Borrower:                    Government of South Sudan

Original Total Commitment: US$36.75M
Revised Amount:            US$ 17.6M                       Disbursed Amount:            US$ 17.6M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies: SSAC, MOH, Selected Line Ministries, CBOs, International NGOs
Co-financiers and Other External Partners: None

B. Key Dates
      Process                  Date                Process             Original Date     Revised / Actual Date(s)
Concept Review:           07/12/2007        Effectiveness:                 02/29/2008           02/29/2008
Appraisal:                11/06/2007        Restructuring:                                      06/06/2011
Approval:                 02/29/2008        Mid-term Review:                 None
                                            Closing:                       06/30/2011           06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                              Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                           Significant
Bank Performance:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                  Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
            Bank                        Ratings                 Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:            Moderately Unsatisfactory Government:              Moderately Satisfactory
                                                       Implementing
Quality of Supervision:      Satisfactory                                       Moderately Satisfactory
                                                       Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                           Overall Borrower
                             Moderately Satisfactory                            Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                           Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
       Implementation                                    QAG Assessments (if
                                        Indicators                                      Rating
         Performance                                              any)
Potential Problem Project at
                               Y                       Quality at Entry (QEA): NA
any time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time                            Quality of Supervision
                               Y                                               NA
(Yes/No):                                              (QSA):
DO rating before
                               MS                      QALP rating             NA
Closing/Inactive status:


                                                       i
D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               25                      25
Health                                                          35                      35
Sub-national government administration                          25                      25
Other social services                                           15                      15



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
HIV/AIDS                                                          67                    67
Population and reproductive health                                33                    33

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                            At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President:               Makhtar Diop                  Obiageli Ezekwesili
Country Director:             Bella Bird                    Ian Bannon
Sector Manager:               Olusoji Adeyi                 Eva Jarawan
Project Team Leader:          Mohamed Ali Kamil             Khama Odera Rogo
ICR Primary Author            Prabhat Jha
ICR Team Leader:              Mohamed Ali Kamil




                                                       ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives

 The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) stated that the project development objectives were to:
 (i) strengthen the capacity of the South Sudan HIV/AIDS Commission (SSAC) to plan,
 coordinate and monitor the Government of South Sudan (GOSS) response to HIV/AIDS, (ii)
 increase community access to comprehensive HIV/AIDS services, and (iii) create awareness and
 encourage measurable behavior change regarding HIV/AIDS.

 The original PAD included the expected ladder of achievements under the project, and later in
 2009, the client with the support of the Bank team identified the following measurable indicators
 to assess progress towards these achievements. The ladder of achievements contained in the
 PAD and the indicators developed later to measure these achievements did not aim to measure
 progress towards reduction in HIV prevalence or incidence.


     (a) PDO Indicator(s)

 Indicator        Baseline Value           Target Values                   Actual Value Achieved at
                                                                           Completion
PDO 1: Strengthen the capacity of the SSAC
1.1: Number of states with functional AIDS commission (15%)
Value              0                        10                              10
Date achieved 17-Dec-2008                   29-Jun-2012                     30-March-2012
Comments: Target was achieved-10 state AIDS commission and 20 County AIDS Commissions were
established and strengthened with the support of the project.
1.2: Number of Ministry action plans implemented
Value             0                         5                               6
Date achieved 23-Dec-2008                   29-Jun-2012                     30-March-2012
Comments: Original goal was 10 ministries, but this was scaled back to 6 in 2009. The purpose of the
scaling down was to prioritize those line ministries which could focus on highly vulnerable groups such as
men in uniform, prisoners, school and out of school children, etc. This target was partially achieved: five
out the agreed six line ministries (health, Education, Army, Internal Affairs and Youth) implementing their
respective action plans.
1.3: Number of sectoral policies established
Value             0                         4                               5
Date achieved 24-Dec-2008                   29-Jun-2012                     30-Sept-2012
Comments: Target was achieved. At project appraisal, the country did not have documented strategy to
deal with the HIV/AIDS challenge. The national strategic HIV/ framework was at the earliest stage of
conceptualization. The project supported the finalization of the national strategic plan and other essential
documents such the HIV/AIDS M&E framework and operational plan, condom promotion and distribution
guidelines, and ART, PMTCT, HRT guidelines.
PDO 2: Increase community access to comprehensive HIV/AIDS services
2.1 Number of CSW reached by HIV/AIDS prevention and care (22%)
Value             0                         5,000                           9,152
Date achieved 24-Dec-2008                   29-Jun-2012                     30-Sept-2012
Comments: Target achieved - Incrementally, about 9000 CSWs reached in the areas supported by the

                                                     iii
 Indicator          Baseline Value            Target Values                  Actual Value Achieved at
                                                                             Completion
project, in addition 8200 high risk men (2, 366 truck drivers, and 5, 916 clients of CSWs) were reached.
2.2: Pregnant women living with HIV who received antiretroviral to reduce the risk of MTCT (10%)
Value              0                      1650                             662
Date achieved 24-Dec-2008                 29-Jun-2012                      30-Sept-2012
Comments: Target achieved - In 2008, provision of PMTCT service was limited to one health center in Juba, the
project supported the expansion of availability and the utilization of PMTCT services.
2.3: Adults and children with HIV receiving antiretroviral combination therapy (8%)
Value              0                        2500                                  3492
Date achieved 24-Dec-2008                   29-Jun-2012                           30-Sept-2012
Comments: Target achieved. At project appraisal, availability and utilization of ART treatment was limited
to Juba town, the project supported the expansion of availability and the utilization of ART services.
2.4: Number of health facilities providing PMTCT services
Value              9                        20                                    62
Date achieved 24-Dec-2008                   29-Jun-2012                           30-Sept-2012
Comments: Target achieved.
2.5: Number of health facilities providing ART treatment
Value              1                        15                                    22
Date achieved 24-Dec-2008                   29-Jun-2012                           30-Sept-2012
Comments: Target achieved.
2.6: Number of health facilities providing VCT, including tuberculosis centers
Value              10                       30                                     164
Date achieved 24-Dec-2008                   29-Jun-2012                           30-Sept-2012
Comments: At project appraisal, the VCT services were available in Juba, the project supported expansion
of the availability of VCT service.
2.7: Number of CSO subprojects funded
Value              0                        50                                    101
Date achieved 24-Dec-2008                   29-Jun-2012                           30-Sept-2012
Comments: Target achieved, the objective was to support 5 CSOs per state and at least one focusing on
women. Total of 101 additional CSOs enrolled during project implementation.
PDO 3: Create awareness and measurable behavior change regarding HIV/AIDS
3.1: Number of person counseled, tested and knowing their HIV status
Value              0                        35000                                 83890
Date achieved 24-Dec-2008                   29-Jun-2012                           30-Sept-2012
Comments: Target achieved.
3.2: Number of pregnant women attending prenatal consultation and tested for HIV
Value              0                        35000                                 49691
Date achieved 24-Dec-2008                   29-Jun-2012                           30-Sept-2012
Comments: Target achieved.
3.3: Number of condoms distributed (5%)
Value              0                        1, 042, 000                           1, 525, 158
Date achieved 24-Dec-2008                   29-Jun-2012                           30-Sept-2012
                   Target achieved. The condoms distributed were mostly financed by UNFPA but the
Comments
                   promotion and distribution were implemented by the project.




                                                          iv
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
           Date ISR
 No.                                  DO                           IP
           Archived
   1 06/30/2008          Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                  0.00
   2 12/28/2008          Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory       1.89
   3 06/29/2009          Moderately Unsatisfactory    Moderately Unsatisfactory     1.89
   4 12/22/2009          Moderately Unsatisfactory    Moderately Unsatisfactory     1.89
   5 06/28/2010          Moderately Unsatisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory       6.64
   6 12/22/2010          Moderately Unsatisfactory    Satisfactory                  6.64
   7 03/17/2011          Moderately Satisfactory      Satisfactory                  10.50
   8 12/06/2011          Moderately Satisfactory      Satisfactory                  17.60
   9 06/15/2012          Moderately Satisfactory      Satisfactory                  17.60



H. Restructuring
                                     ISR Ratings at       Amount
  Restructuring    Board Approved    Restructuring     Disbursed at       Reason for Restructuring & Key
     Date(s)        PDO Change                        Restructuring in            Changes Made
                                      DO        IP     USD millions
                                                                         Extension of the closing date from
                                                                         June 30, 2011 to June 30, 2012 for
                                                                         successful implementation of planned
    06/6/2011             No           MS      MS            66%         activities. A new result framework
                                                                         agreed with the client in 2009 was
                                                                         approved.


I. Disbursement Profile




                                                      v
1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

 1.    The Southern Sudan Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF) HIV/AIDS Project was approved
 on November 6, 2007 and became effective on February 29, 2008. This multisectoral project
 aimed to strengthen a coordinated national response to HIV/AIDS by building capacity at the
 Government of South Sudan (GoSS), State and County levels of South Sudan, and to scale up
 delivery of comprehensive HIV/AIDS services. The total committed amount for this project was
 US$36.7 million over five years (2008-2012) with the MDTF financing US$31.75 million (86.7%
 of the total cost) and the GoSS financing US $5 million (13.6% of the total cost). Importantly,
 the project was a trust fund, jointly funded by multiple donors and the GoSS; and not an IDA
 credit or grant to the government.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

2.    The Republic of South Sudan has an estimated population of about 8 million people in a
country of approximately 640,000 square kilometers. The population is largely rural based (90%)
and more than half the population lives below the poverty line. At appraisal, it was a nation that
had just become autonomous in 2005 following the Comprehensive Peace Agreement and later
became independent from Sudan in July 2011. The economy is predominantly rural and relies on
farming. The country has suffered from serious conflict, including civil wars as part of the
struggle for independence from Sudan. As a result, many people were displaced or killed and the
country made little development progress. At ICR, South Sudan remains a fragile state with
ongoing conflicts with various smaller armed groups. Some disputes with Sudan still arise, for
example over sharing of petroleum revenues.

3.      The long civil war had a negative impact on the health care system; and the health status
of the population was alarmingly poor. The estimate for maternal mortality (2,054 per 100,000
live births) was the highest in the world and the coverage of preventive services such as
immunization was among the lowest. Malnutrition was widespread and tropical diseases, largely
controlled in other countries, accounted for a large proportion of the total burden of disease. A
comparison of key health indicators in South Sudan, North Sudan, and Sub-Saharan Africa is
presented in the table below.

Table 1: Key Health Indicators for South Sudan and its Comparators
                         Indicator                           South    North      Sub-Saharan
                                                             Sudan1   Sudan1       Africa2
  Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)               102.4    71.0           95
  Maternal Mortality Ratio (per 100,000 live births)          2,054    534           920
  DPT3 vaccination coverage rate (%)                           24.6    70.5           72
1 Source: Sudan Household Health Survey (SHHS) 2006
2 Source: UNICEF State of the World’s Children, 2008 (data are for 2006)

 4.     The organization of health services in South Sudan was, as is the case in many post
 conflict settings, under the control of international NGO’s which were not fully aligned with
 government strategy in terms of ensuring equitable geographical focus in service delivery. As a

                                                   1
    consequence, the distribution of supported services was biased towards urban areas and along
    the main roads. It is important to mention that the majority of the mainly rural based and remote
    population had no access to health services. Even those areas receiving external support often
    lacked sufficient funds to improve the delivery of PHC as a whole either because assistance
    was focused on only a few of the payams or because it was concentrated on supporting vertical
    programs.

    5.     At appraisal, it was believed that new and prevalent HIV infections were lower in South
    Sudan than in neighboring countries because the long civil war had restricted migration, trade
    and travel and thus reduced HIV transmission. However, at appraisal it was known that the
    average HIV prevalence among adults aged 15-49 years of the seven countries surrounding
    South Sudan was already over 4%.1Moreover, expectations of large migration from returning
    displaced peoples after the end of the civil war, low levels of literacy (particularly among
    females), near non-existent health services and low status of women and girls were feared as
    likely to contribute to an explosive increase in HIV infections.

    6.      Rationale for the Bank involvement included its comparative advantage versus other
    donors to pull together countries and partners, especially in the context of AIDS programming;
    its ability to work across various line ministries and sectors; and the fact that spread of HIV was
    a threat to human capital, economic growth and poverty reduction.

    7.    The GoSS established the South Sudan HIV/AIDS Commission (SSAC) in 2006 to
    coordinate its response. The SSAC developed a MDTF funded HIV/AIDS project proposal in
    consultation with representatives of GoSS, UN Agencies, Civil Society and other key
    development partners, including the Bank. The GoSS strategic objective for this project was to
    ensure an effective response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic through a multisectoral approach that
    included Government and Civil Society.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Indicators

8.         The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) lists three project development objectives:
           a. Strengthen the capacity of the SSAC to plan, coordinate and monitor the GoSS
              response to HIV/AIDS;
           b. Increase community access to comprehensive HIV/AIDS services; and
           c. Create awareness and encourage measurable behavior change regarding HIV/AIDS.

9.      During its five-year implementation period, the project sought to achieve its development
objectives through:
        a. Incremental strengthening of the SSAC at all levels;
        b. Phased expansion of the geographic coverage of successful approaches to all States of
            South Sudan;
        c. Phased mainstreaming of HIV/AIDS into priority Government sectors; and



1
    UNAIDS Annual Report 2012, UNAIDS, www.unaids.gov

                                                        2
       d. Phased expansion of the scope of programs toward the achievement of
          comprehensive service provision.

10.     Tools for measuring the achievement of the original PDOs were not specified in the PAD
by detailed indicators or a Results Framework. However, the PAD did provide a ladder of
achievement (page 20) with annual goals. The expected outcomes at the completion of the
project were:
    a. AIDS Commission offices at the GoSS, State and County levels would be in place, with a
       clear mandate, institutional capacity and human resources to effectively coordinate and
       monitor the multisectoral response to HIV/AIDS;
    b. The capacity of SSAC will be more strategic allowing prioritization of activities that will
       have greatest impact on the epidemic;
    c. Budgeted HIV/AIDS Strategic Plans will be in place at GoSS and State levels and will
       respond to local priorities;
    d. An HIV/AIDS Monitoring and Evaluation System will be in place, and will collect
       strategic information at all levels for decision making by all stakeholders;
    e. There will be increased capacity among Government Ministries and Civil Society
       Organizations to deliver comprehensive HIV/AIDS services;
    f. There will be increased population coverage of accessible, affordable and sustainable
       prevention, care, support and treatment services;
    g. HIV/AIDS will be integrated into the policies, work plans and budgets of priority Line
       Ministries and Departments at the GoSS and State levels; and
    h. The capacity of the Ministry of Health to respond to HIV/AIDS will be increased at the
       GoSS and State levels.

11.     The initial ISR included the following indicators for which the baseline data as well the
targets were defined.

PDO indicators:
  a. Number of states with functional AIDS commissions;
  b. Number of Ministry action plans implemented;
  c. Increased knowledge of HIV/AIDS; and
  d. Number of services sites established.

Intermediate outcome indicators:
   a. % of resources disbursed by category;
   b. Number of CSO subproject funded;
   c. % of MARPS reached by interventions; and
   d. Number of sectoral policies established.

12. In November 2009, the client revised the result framework, the ISR was updated and a set
of measurable indicators to monitor progress of the above mentioned ladder of project
achievement was added; these were formalized during the restructuring of the project in June
2011.




                                                3
1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators

13.     There were no changes to the PDOs.

14.     As noted below in the discussion on implementation, the project underperformed for the
early two years, with a number of unsatisfactory ratings on PDOs and IP in ISRs. From
November 2009 a substantial effort to reshape the project began, with the main changes of the
restructuring described in the June 2011 restructuring document. The changes, beginning in
December 2009 involved the following elements:

      a. Reduced grant size. In July 2009, following very slow implementation progress and
         disbursements (with only about US$2 million spent) and the need for resources to fund
         other priority programs, the Oversight Committee of the MDTF decided to reduce their
         contribution to the project by half. The SSAC was not supportive of this decision. Due
         to the financial crisis, the GoSS contribution was limited to US$1 million. Therefore
         the total project budget was reduced to $18.6 million of which $17.6 million came from
         MDTF and $1.0 million from GoSS. The allocation by component before and budget
         reduction is presented in Table 2. The proportional funding for institutional capacity
         building was slightly raised, and the other three components were slightly cut.

      b. Agreed specific actions to speed implementation: a) Recruitment of Lead agencies
         (NGOs/firms) to support the state SSACs and to focus on: (i) improving the delivery of
         HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment services on the ground; (ii) building the capacity of
         the State SSACs and State MOH HIV/AIDS departments; and (iii) strengthening the
         ability of local CSOs/NGOs to deliver HIV services; b) Prioritizing line ministries
         being financed to those that are most strategic (Education, Gender, Internal affairs,
         Defense, Youth, and Health); c) Strengthening M&E and improving the availability of
         data through the inclusion of an HIV/AIDS module into the planned population based
         survey under the Umbrella Health Project, to incorporate the collection of HIV/AIDS
         related activities into the revised HMIS and to undertake review of the HIV epidemic
         and responses; d) Strengthening the fiduciary capacities of the SSAC by accelerating the
         recruitment of a Financial Management Specialist.

      c. Adopt and update a formal Results Framework. The revised indicators from the Results
         Framework are given in Section F above and discussed further below.

      d. Extend the project closing date by one year from June 30, 2011 to June 30, 2012.

Table 2. Original and Revised cost by components in US dollars
Component                                       Original cost        Revised cost
Institutional and capacity building of the SSAC $9,187,500 (25%)     $6,700,000 (36%)
Line Ministries’ responses                      $3,675,000 (10%)     $1,400,000 (7.5%)
Civil Society Response:                         $18,375,000 (50%)    $9,000,000 (48.4%)
Health Sector Response:                         $5,512,000 (15%)     $1,500,000 (8.6%)
TOTAL                                           $36,750,000 (100%)   $18,600,000 (100%)




                                                    4
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

15.    The original PAD listed the following direct beneficiaries: (i) populations at high risk of
HIV transmission, including IDPs, returnees, youth and women including most-at risk
populations (MARPs); (ii) people living with HIV and AIDS (PLWHA); (iii) orphans and
vulnerable children; and (iv) the general population.

1.5 Original Components: The project had four main components.

16.     Component 1: Institutional and Capacity Building of the SSAC at all levels
(Originally US$9.1 million; revised US$6.7 million, or 36% of revised total). This component
proposed to build capacity at the GoSS, State and County levels in the following strategic areas:
(a) Human resources: The Project aimed to support institutional, managerial and technical
capacity building of the SSAC in a phased approach, prioritizing the GoSS level and then
supporting State and County HIV/AIDS Commissions; (b) Policy and planning: The project
aimed to support SSAC in further development of the HIV/AIDS Multisectoral Strategic
Framework (HMSF) and GoSS HIV/AIDS Policy by supporting the development of annual
action plans at national and state levels, and the dissemination of the HMSF and State HIV/AIDS
Strategic Action Plans (SAP) in all counties. The Project also aimed to provide technical
assistance in the development of evidence-based County HIV/AIDS work plans and proposal
writing in line with the HMSF and SAPs; (c) Infrastructure: The Project aimed to support
provision of communication equipment (VSAT) to improve communication with counties and
the national level; vehicles and bicycles and/or motorcycles for focal persons. (d) Monitoring
and Evaluation (M&E): The Project aimed to provide technical support to complement M&E
activities and support the establishment of M&E support teams in the SSAC at GoSS and state
levels, and an overall M&E framework and implementation plan. The system aimed to
strengthen the coordination of M&E-related data flows and easy access, and use of information
for evidence-based decision making; and (e) Project management: The Project aimed to train
staff at GoSS and state levels on World Bank and/or GoSS procurement and financial
management guidelines and procedures. In addition staff at all levels was to receive training in
project planning, budgeting and financial management.

17.     Component 2: Line Ministries’ Response (Originally US$9.6 million; revised US$1.4
million, or 7.5% of revised total). The component undertook to provide technical and financial
support to mainstream HIV/AIDS in policies, development plans and budgets of strategic sector
Ministries at the GoSS and state level, and strategic government departments at county level in
line with the HMSF and National HIV/AIDS Policy. There are 23 line ministries and 16
independent commissions and chambers in the GoSS. The sectors were at varying stages of
integrating HIV/AIDS into their core business. Eventually, this component was revised from 14
to only six ministries. The overall objective was that this component would expand awareness of
HIV/AIDS.

18.    Component 3: Civil Society Response (Originally US$18.3 million, revised US$9.0
million, or 48.4% of revised total). During the war, most health services at the community level
were supported by local, regional, and international NGOs, some of which have significant skills
in community service delivery. Thus, at the community level, the Project aimed to promote and

                                                5
support existing, and develop new, partnerships between government institutions, civil society,
and international organizations to scale up the coverage of prevention, care, treatment and
support services for MARP groups and the general population. Services would build on,
complement, and strengthen existing programs. The overall objective of this component was to
expand community access to essential HIV/AIDS prevention services. In addition to
community-based programs and services, the Project aimed to support delivery of specific
services targeting MARPs including, but are not limited to, programs for: CSWs, PLWHA;
young people; women and girls; orphans and vulnerable children; (returning) refugees, including
repatriation corridors and cross-border programs; uniformed personnel; truck drivers and other
mobile populations; condom social marketing; mass media interventions; policy and legal
advocacy; human rights; stigma and discrimination; traditional and political leaders; traditional
healers; as well as mainstreaming gender in all programs. Implementation of these programs was
to be contracted out to individual organizations or consortia of NGOs, CBOs, FBOs, and UN
and/or government organizations.

19.     Component 4: Health Sector Response (Originally US$5.5 million, revised US$1.5
million, or 8.6% of revised total). This component aimed to strengthen MOH capacity to
deliver HIV/AIDS services at all levels in a phased approach, starting with building capacity at
the GoSS and state levels and subsequently at county levels. The goal was to be strategic and
selective in strengthening institutional capacity through the recruitment, and technical training of
focal persons in the HIV/AIDS and TB directorates and health workers in general. The Project
supported complement activities financed by the World Bank Regional HIV/AIDS Partnership
Program that aimed to improve HIV/AIDS prevention, care, treatment and mitigation programs
for cross border and mobile populations, refugees and returnees in a few selected counties in
South Sudan.

1.6 Revised Components and Changes

20.    There were no other significant changes to components.




                                                 6
2.         Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Results Chain, Baseline and Counterfactual Scenario

21.     Epidemiological scenario: Baseline data to determine the levels and trends of HIV
infection, treatment needs and other outcomes were unavailable at Appraisal. Thus the main
reliance was on UNAIDS and other technical reports using model-based projections. Figure 1
summarizes the UNAIDS “Spectrum? model which suggests about 3% of adult were infected in
South Sudan, and which predicted modest declines in incidence (which is difficult to measure)
and prevalence in females aged 15-24 years (which is proxy for new infections and which can be
measured more easily by testing in young pregnant women) over the project period. Earlier data
from behavioral surveys and from other settings in Africa had determined that most new
infections arose from CSW to male clients, and onward to regular partners. The design of the
project sought to reach these MARPs via a broad response with various ministries engaged, care
and testing services via MoH run facilities, and use of NGOs and CBOs to reach CSWs and other
MARPs.


Figure 1. UNAIDS model-based trends in HIV prevalence, new infections and AIDS deaths, 1995-2011




Notes: Annual AIDS deaths and number of new infections use the Y-axis on the left in thousands; the remaining trends are
prevalence using the Y-axis on the right in %.2




2
    Courtesy of Boaz Kiprop Cheluget and Peter Ghys, UNAIDS, Unpublished data from UNAIDS Spectrum model 2012.

                                                           7
22.     Results Chain and Counterfactual Scenario: Previous experience and the project’s
“ladder of achievement? had a logical results chain leading from inputs to increase SSAC and
SACs capacity, engage other ministries, increase civil society response, to expanded services,
and increased awareness of HIV/AIDS. Outcomes were to include: increased safe sexual
practices, increased knowledge of HIV and accepting attitudes towards PLWHA. The PAD
stopped short of claims on impact (reduction in HIV or other STIs), and as noted, the M&E
framework did not have sufficient plans for behavioral surveys or other methods to measure
progress. The basic results chain was unchanged with the adoption of revised Results Framework
of June 2011, though weakness in surveillance continued, there were efforts to include some
questions on aspects of HIV/AIDS behavior in surveys supported by the Umbrella Health project.
The counterfactual scenario was not one of elimination of new infections or turning the trajectory
of HIV sharply downward. While some other African countries have seen sharp declines in HIV
infections among young pregnant women, this was not the counterfactual scenario in South
Sudan. A realistic counterfactual was that the HIV epidemic growth (i.e., new HIV infections)
would slow or would be prevented from exploding.

2.2 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

23. Project preparation: The project was prepared in 6 months, including the time from
Concept Review (June 2007) to Board approval (November 2007) and was effective by
February 2008. The project preparation was supported by the Multi Donors Trust Funds. There
was no change in the original date of grant effectiveness set for March 1, 2008. The conditions
for effectiveness were quite achievable involving development of a multisectoral framework
and hiring staff for financial management.

24. Stakeholder involvement and review of African lessons: The HIV/AIDS project was
prepared in the context of a post conflict country with limited capacity and available data on
HIV/AIDS. During preparation as well implementation, regular consultation under the
coordination of SSAC was held to monitor the progress of national HIV/AIDS response. The
Bank team consulted widely with partners including UNAIDS, UNDP, CDC, GFATM, and
WHO among others. This led to the MDTF being instrumental to the early efforts by the new
GoSS. The future promise of oil revenues also suggested that funds would be available to GoSS
to sustain these activities. The World Bank was in charge of the management (technical and
financial responsibility) of the MDTF, and the Oversight Committee that was composed of
representative of government and donor countries was responsible for allocation and use of
funds.

25. The division of labor between donors, mainly between the World Bank and Global
Fund, was defined by SSAC. The MDTF project would support the establishment of VCT,
PMTCT, ART (infrastructure, equipment, human resources, supervision) and creation of
demand through civil society association. The GF would provide reagents and ARV drugs. For
ARV delivery, GFATM or Transitional Health Funds (THM) financed the drugs, with the Trust
fund proportion paying to establish 22 treatment sites (infrastructure, appointment and training
of health worker, community mobilization, etc.). USAID also provided some support for these
centers. Condoms were mostly procured and supplied by UNFPA but distributed through MOH
and the NGOs and CBOs contracted under this project.

                                                8
    26. Lessons from other experiences in the region: Moreover, the Bank drew from
    experience in African countries and a World Bank report on HIV/AIDS developmental
    assistance. This included realistic assessments that simple designs were needed when
    implementation capacity was low, the need to ensure NGOs had capacity to assess their target
    groups of marginalized populations. However, while their importance was already established,
    the project probably paid less attention to baseline and monitoring data, the need for SSAC
    leadership to ensure other sectors worked well on HIV, and the need to ensure capacity in new
    implementing partners, and finally to the transition to GoSS to fund and sustain HIV/AIDS
    programming.

    27. Adequate attention to financial management and project supervision: The project
    invested a considerable amount of attention to ensure financial management and reporting was
    robust from the start. This included requiring financial consultants to be in place as a condition
    of effectiveness, and other capacity building efforts. Similar, project supervision had identified
    this as high-risk project and suggested quarterly financial reporting. There was a detailed and
    realistic risk assessment, which identified the problems expected with a new GoSS
    administration and the coordination problems expected across ministries.

    28. Project design. The project adopted a broad multi-sectoral approach, which was
    recommended by UNAIDS and other partners at that time, including provision to reach MARPs,
    expanding ARV treatment and other components. However, the ambition to have various parts
    of GoSS working together in an inter-sectoral manner was an overly lofty goal given that the
    GoSS was, and still is, a new government with various challenges of establishing structures for
    effective management of the country. The design underestimated the amount of attention and
    coordination needed to manage such action across sectors. The project appropriately sought to
    avoid new structures, and as much as possible work within the GoSS structures.

    29. Limited project inputs on monitoring and evaluation: The M&E component was not
    well developed in the project design. The PAD had no Results Framework, only a ladder of
    achievements. Though late, the team worked to have a Results Framework identified in
    November 2009 and formalized in June 2011. The project investments did not specifically fund
    surveillance in antenatal clinic populations, mapping of high-risk groups, repeat behavioral
    surveys or other key inputs, as recommended in the external consultant report of April 2011.3

    30. Risk assessment of the results chain. The Project was rated as high-risk for appropriate
    reasons. Several of the identified risks were realistic, in particular, those related to the financial
    and procurement arrangements, and these also had reasonable mitigation strategies. However,
    risk assessment was absent on other Ministries besides MOH having the necessary know how to
    reduce HIV, and the risk assessment could have better identified how MDTF-financed inputs
    would relate to the eventual reductions in HIV/AIDS in the general population, that is, to
    identify a clear results chain and identify the risky components within it.




3
    Gelmon L. Southern Sudan: HIV Epidemic and Response Review Report issued in April 2011

                                                             9
31. High reliance on a new organization (SSAC) with minimal transition strategy. The
project began on an emergency, humanitarian basis, which was appropriate to the country
scenario. A clear transition strategy, moving away from reliance on international NGOs to
GoSS for delivery of services was not developed. The creation of SACs at the national and state
levels emphasized form over function, with very few specifications of which functions, staffing
needs, job descriptions, and other aspects of capacity building could be transferred to GoSS
within a feasible timeframe.

2.3 Implementation

32.     For almost two years the project was not able to make expected progress and
disbursement was very slow, with the eventual diminution of project amount by half. The main
reason for slow implementation included the internal management struggles between the
chairperson of the SSAC and the executive director that lead to significantly delayed recruitment
of core staff such as fiduciary specialists, M&E specialist, etc. The issues were resolved with the
appointment of the new executive director. In November 2009, the Bank’s supervision mission
assessed the main constraints and identified the way forward aiming to revitalize the project.
This included:
   a. Strengthening the fiduciary capacities of the SSAC through the recruitment of a Financial
       Management Specialist and Procurement Specialist;
   b. Contracting Lead agencies (NGOs/firms) to support the state SSACs with the aims of:
       improving the delivery of HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment services on the ground;
       building the capacity of the State SSACs and State MOH departments; and strengthening
       the ability of local CSOs/NGOs to deliver HIV services;
   c. Prioritizing line ministries to those that are most importantly strategic such as Education,
       Gender, Internal affairs, Defense, Youth, and Health;
   d. Strengthening M&E and improving the availability of data by: including an HIV/AIDS
       module into upcoming household surveys; recruit M&E specialist to carry out the
       epidemiological synthesis of HIV/AIDS epidemic and response; and review and update
       the result framework.

33.    Work and procurement plans were updated in order to reflect the actions above. These
changes were summarized in the December 2009 ISR, and formalized, as noted above in the
Board restructuring document of June 2011. The project succeeded in delivering most of the
outputs under the three components and mostly achieving or partially achieving its expected
outcomes after the formal restructuring of January 2010 (see details in Annex 2, Section 3.2, and
Data sheet). There were positive and more challenging factors that played a role in
implementation:

34.     Intensive supervision. After a change in project supervision team by the Bank in late
2009, project performance improved considerably. This included more effective dialogue on the
need to change SSAC leadership and staffing. While the cut was unforeseen, the reduction in
project cost did convey the seriousness of the situation to GoSS, who responded with improved
staffing. The Bank team made considerable efforts to support accelerated contracting of the large
umbrella NGOs, organized monthly roundtables of key partners, and commissioning of specific
studies. All of these efforts led to an emphasis on delivery of activities under the various project

                                                10
components. The GoSS worked to reduce 15 different ministries or line authorities in GoSS to
6 ministries. The GoSS commissioned an external expert to review the epidemiological status
and program response4, and the HIV/AIDS Alliance was able to conduct mapping of likely sex
workers in only two parts of South Sudan5. A CDC report on the epidemiology of HIV was
issued in 2012.6

2.4 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

35.    Overall, the design, implementation and utilization of M&E was unsatisfactory for the
following reasons:

36.    M&E Design: The PAD had no formal indicators, only a ladder of achievement and
broad goals by the end of the project. Specific efforts to expand surveillance among pregnant
women were mentioned, but it was hoped that these would be achieved with the support of other
agencies including WHO and CDC.

37.     M&E Implementation: The project supported a detailed and high quality review of all
existing epidemiological data including the 2010 Household Survey with the aim of better
understanding the epidemiology of HIV/AIDS in South Sudan and the nature of the response.
The draft report has been widely circulated, discussed and validated by SSAC and stakeholders.
In addition, in order to improve the availability of HIV/AIDS services, the SSAC with the
support of the project completed the following activities: (i) Integration of health related
HIV/AIDS data (PMTCT, ART treatment, VCT, etc.) into the Ministry of Health’s national
Health Management Information System (HMIS); (ii) Integration of HIV/AIDS module into the
Health Facility survey to identify availability and use of VCT, PMTCT and ART treatment; (iii)
Integration of HIV/AIDS module (Knowledge of HIV status, knowledge about the means of
transmission of HIV and protection) into the LQAS survey conducted in June 2011. Some of the
recommendations of the external consultant on M&E were not fully implemented and the
mapping of sex workers was only partially implemented. The sentinel surveillance of pregnant
women was always under the responsibility of MOH and supported by other partners such WHO,
CDC, etc. Despite these efforts, lack of robust data remains a problem to date. The UNAIDS
spectrum model continues to be the major basis for quantitative decision making, but primary
data on trends is required to validate and update this model.

38.     M&E Utilization: The lack of early M&E indicators and of robust surveillance data
contributed to a lack of clarity by SSAC on which actions to prioritize, and how to best advise
which interventions (beyond general awareness) that could be pursued by other line ministries.
Even now, there is insufficient use of sentinel surveillance data conducted to inform subsequent
project strategic priorities, the actions of NGOs or other efforts. Similarly, capacity building to
sustain sentinel surveillance by GoSS is limited.




4
  Gelmon L. 2011 ibid
5
  HIV/Alliance Report to SSAC on Final implementation status, Sept 2012.
6
  Hakim A et al. 2012 South Sudan HIV/AIDS Epidemiologic Profile, Integrated Epidemiologic Profile for HIV/AIDS
Prevention, Care and Treatment, and Strategic Information. US CDC, March 2012

                                                           11
2.5 Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance

 39. Safeguards implementation was satisfactory throughout project implementation. The
 environmental impact of the project was rated C, therefore, no environmental assessment was
 required.

 40. Financial Management was satisfactory throughout project implementation. The project
 invested substantial amount of attention and staffing for sound financial management. Project
 audits were conducted annually, with the audit reports submitted to the Bank by due dates.
 Subsequent audit reports and management letters did not raise any major issues.

 41. Procurement was satisfactory throughout project implementation. Independent
 procurement reviews were carried out regularly by the Bank team as well by the independent
 team hired by the World Bank to review procurement of all MDTF supported projects.

2.6 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

42.     Funding for HIV/AIDS has stalled in the region as a whole, is focused on ARV
treatment and remains driven by external sources. This is also true for South Sudan where
funding has also stalled due to austerity measures adopted by the GoSS following the closure of
oil production and the long list of development priorities that face the new country. The GoSS
has obtained several rounds of funding for HIV/AIDS from the Global Fund as shown in Table 3.


Table 3. Sources, time periods and amounts of non-MDTF funding for HIV/AIDS in South Sudan
Source                               Time period                      Amount
GF R4                                ended Nov 2011                   $26,935,365
GF R5 for TB/HIV                     ended September, 2011            $21,613,754
GF R9 for HSS                        ended September 2012             $24,507,104
GF R9 for HSS phase 2                ends 2015                        $12,563,604
GF CoS for HIV                       2011-13                          $8,473,110
GF CoS for TB/HIV                    2011-13                          $6,600,951
TFM for HIV                          2013-14                          $11,918,939
TFM for TB/HIV                       2013-14                          $9,345,111
MDTF-UPHSD 2                         2012-13                          $0.7 Million
GoSS for ARV                         2013                             6 Million SSP (about $1.5 M)

43.    The GFATM rounds including Transitional Funds (TFM) focus on provision of ARV
treatment, and not so much on outreach programs to reduce HIV transmission from MARPs.
USAID and CDC are planning some additional programs funded by PEPFAR, but these will
focus mostly on sustaining the 22 ART sites plus some surveillance. For the most recent budget,
the GoSS funded the SSAC by about $3 million to keep their operations going, but provides
limited funding for outreach activities. The GoSS austerity measures cut the SSAC funding
from about $12 million/year, and austerity is expected to continue to at least 2014. Presumably,
once petroleum production increases, additional funds will become available. The ongoing Bank
supported health project (Health Rapid Results Project) which covers two states (Jonglei and
Upper Nile) will sustain some of the existing VCT, PMTCT and ART services developed under
the HIV/AIDS project.


                                                  12
44.      High levels of uncovered populations persist. The UNAIDS survey of various data
sources and the results of the 2010 and 2011 surveys on HIV/AIDS awareness7 reveal there are
still large gaps in coverage for most of the UNAIDS-defined components in a multi-sectoral
response. The following reports from UNAIDS suggest the following gaps as of September
2012:
     a. Comprehensive knowledge on HIV prevention is only about 10% for women and 11%
         for young people, with little change between the 2010/11 surveys and the earlier 2006
         national survey.8 However, the methodologies for these surveys are not standardized, so
         some of the lack of awareness might be due to different survey designs;
     b. Only about 1,600 HIV positive pregnant women are reached annually for PMTCT, as
         opposed to estimated 8000 HIV positive pregnant in need;
     c. About 73,000 pregnant women utilized HIV testing and counseling services, out of total
         pregnancies estimated at 300,000;
     d. Only about 14% (11,000) of PLWHA in need of treatment receive it; 83,000 are in need
         of ARV using the WHO’s new criteria of treating at higher levels of immune suppression
         (CD4 counts>350).
     e. Condom needs have not been estimated but only about 2.5 million condoms are
         distributed, mostly with support from UNFPA. Condom use with last non-regular partner
         among CSWs is estimated at 50-74%, well below levels seen in countries such as Senegal
         or Cote d’Ivoire.9
     f. UNAIDS unfortunately does not do estimates of CSW population size, and the project
         did not do any national mapping of the number of CSWs. Crudely, using the prevalence
         of CSWs to be the median of estimates from a worldwide review10, of about 2% (i.e.
         between 0.4% and 4.3%), would imply about 40,000 of South Sudan’s 2 million adult
         women aged 15-49 years are engaged in part time or full time sex work. Currently only
         about 9,000 (20-25%) are reached via CSW interventions.

3.       Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Modest

45.     At the time of the ICR, the relevance of the project’s original objectives to the current
epidemiological challenges are rated high for several reasons: (i) HIV transmission in the
country continues to be driven mostly by MARPs, with new infections stabilizing at about
13,000 per year; (ii) UNAIDS computer-based projections suggest that the growth of HIV has
not yet stabilized in South Sudan (see Figure 1 and Annex 3) and there are insufficient sentinel
surveillance data to report if there are plateaus in HIV infections in pregnant women or in
specific high risk populations, as noted in other parts of Africa;11 (iii) There is an ongoing need


7
  GoSS: The Sudan Household Health Survey (SHHS), 2010 and GoSS, Report of the Community-based LQAS Survey
Conducted in South Sudan, 2011
8
  GoSS. Sudan Household Health Survey (SHHS). 2006
9
  UNAIDS 2012, ibid
10
   Talbott JR. 2007. Size Matters: The Number of Prostitutes and the Global HIV/AIDS Pandemic. PLoS ONE 2(6): e543.
doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0000543
11
   Gregson et al, 2008, ibid

                                                           13
for modern public health institutions within GoSS; and (iv) HIV control has been a key aspect of
poverty reduction and the Bank’s overall assistance strategy in the Africa region.

46.     The relevance of the design focusing on inter-sectoral response is rated modest,
especially in view of the insufficient capacity of the GOSS at that time. While this evaluation is
being made at the time of the ICR, it is important to note that the inter-sectoral approach in the
design of the HIV/AIDS project was in line with the HIV/AIDS MAP recommendation at that
time. It is also important that the team recognized the deficiency in the original design and in
2009 the number of line ministries involved in the project was reduced to six to target highly
vulnerable groups (uniformed personals, prisoners, in and out of school children) which could
not be reached through civil society response.

47.     The relevance of the implementation arrangements is rated modest. A strong feature of
the project was to focus on a SSAC that would work across ministries, and indeed capacity has
improved nationally and in all 10 states. The financial management and procurement aspects
appear to have gone well. However, the key lack of technical inputs and ability to mobilize
expertise on HIV prevention to lever other ministries remains weak. Finally, the lack of an exit
or transition strategy to GoSS funding and stronger stewardship of HIV/AIDS prevention and
treatment remains.

3.2 Achievement of Overall Project Development Objectives

 48. The evaluation of outcomes against the original PDOs is not easy given that meaningful
 measurement can only be made against indicators in the Results Framework agreed in
 November 2009 and formalized in June 2011. Evaluated against these indicators, the project has
 achieved most of the key benchmarks (see Results Framework in Section F above). The 13
 indicators for project development objectives are specified in Section F above and these ranged
 from increasing community access to HIV/AIDS services to the numbers of CSWs reached.
 These were important indicators given the epidemiological importance of new infections arising
 from CSW-male client transactional sex in most parts of Africa.12 Overall, 9 of the 13 project
 indicators were achieved or exceeded. Three indicators (children/adults receiving ARV,
 pregnant women receiving PMTCT and condoms distributed) were funded partially (through
 procurement of commodities) by GFATM and UNFPA so achievements are not only attributed
 to the project. One indicator was partially achieved (5 out of 6 planned line ministries have
 implemented their respective plans.

49.    Achievement of PDO 1 (Strengthening the capacity of the SSAC to plan, coordinate
and monitor the GOSS response to HIV/AIDS) is rated moderately satisfactory. The
relevance of this objective remains high, and the project made important progress towards its
achievement. By the end of the Project, state-level SSACs were established in 10 states and in 20
major more populated counties. All four lead agencies worked with the SSAC to strengthen the
delivery of HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment services, building the capacity of the State
SSACs and State MOH departments, and strengthening the ability of local CSOs/NGOs. Though


12
  Chen et al, Consistency of sexual risk factors for HIV infection in early and advanced HIV epidemics in sub-Saharan Africa:
systematic overview of 68 epidemiological studies PLoS One. 2007; 2(10): e1001; Tallbot, 2012, ibid, Gelmon 2011, ibid.

                                                              14
emphasis was on expansion and scaling up of VCT, PMTCT and ART services in the states, the
capacity building of SSAC formed a critical component of the activities undertaken by lead
agencies. All the four agencies supported the State AIDS Commissions (SACs) and MOH/HIV
department State level (SMoH) to lead and manage the HIV/AIDS response in close
collaboration with local County Health Departments (CHD) and the County AIDS Commissions
(CACs), while in parallel appropriate technical and financial resources were channeled to an
array of PHCCs and community based organizations (CBOs) and other groups like PLHIV
networks.

50.      The focus was on improvement of leadership capacity, building key technical and
managerial skills; ensuring coordination and building partnerships between civil society, the
community and local government, as well as between the HIV subsector and other social sectors
such as health, education and the private sector; strengthening the states and community systems
upon which HIV/AIDS service delivery relies so as to ensure that SACs are able to target
populations that are most at risk for HIV (MARPs). Some of the activities that were necessary at
that time and were necessary to enable strong functioning of SACs included Mapping of health
facilities (PHCC & hospitals) providing HIV/AIDS services; Community Based Organizations
capacity assessment with the aim of examining existing SACs, CACs, CBOs and FBOs in order
to identify their organizational and institutional capacity needs and gaps. A rapid assessment of
the Most at Risk Population was carried out in the two States of Central Equatoria and Eastern
Equatoria, and the lead agencies supported the development of communication strategies. The
project supported the physical setup of the SACs including purchase of furniture, training of
influential persons in the community; health care managers; VCT/PMTCT Counselors; Peer
educators; TBAs; HBC Facilitators; and other Trainers, promoters, mobilizers and effective
referral sources for PMTCT services.

51.     The project supported managerial and technical capacity building through structured
short term training workshops/courses, regional trainings, hands on Technical Assistance and
joint reviews. Some of the training that was provided included: i) Organization and
implementation of HIV/AIDS intervention; ii) Strategic targeting and programming service
delivery; iii) Participatory methods and Basic Management of M&E; iv) Effective HIV/AIDS
BCC, advocacy and social mobilization; v) Positive Prevention Practice Model; and vi)
Technical service concepts on Home Based Care, Positive Prevention Practice and ASRH. For
example, peer education in Western Equatoria and Lakes included: i) 58 persons from Greater
Yirol HIV/AIDS Awareness Program [GYAAP] who received training for in-school and out-of-
school youth; ii) 68 SPL Youth League in Rumbek; iii) 30 Good News Radio Programs; iv) 50
peer educators for YMCA Yambio including additional provision of large scale communication
equipment; v) 42 ECS from Diocese of Nzara.

52.     An important part of building State capacity to respond was to build the capacity of
smaller NGOs as was accomplished in Jonglei State where Jonglei Women’s Association, Back
Home, Pochalla Youth Association and Fangak Women’s Association formed part of the
implementation of the project in the State. These NGOs were trained in Community mobilization
and sensitization, health education on VCT, PMTCT and other HIV/AIDS services, and
distribution of condoms and IEC materials.



                                               15
53.     However, weakness in technical inputs for targeted interventions to high-risk groups, and
the use of M&E and surveillance are notable. The project was partially able to support responses
from line ministries, since, by the end of the Project, five of the six line ministries (Health,
Education, Army, Internal Affairs and Youth) had implemented specific plans but one (Gender)
had not. Detractions from a higher rating include poor alignment of project inputs (goods and
services) to each Ministry’s actions and to reductions in new HIV infections, and the capacity of
the SSAC to implement change was limited.

54.     Achievement of PDO 2 (Increasing community access to comprehensive HIV/AIDS
services) is rated as satisfactory. The project supported recruitment of four lead agencies which
were recruited to support over 100 smaller NGOs on provision of services and care and support.
This led to a substantial increase in VCT, and in peer based services to high-risk groups.
However, as noted, there is still no reliable denominator of the size of these groups, and
surveillance continues to be poor and poorly connected with decision-making by NGOs. Despite
these limitations, the coverage of CSWs and other high-risk groups has likely yielded large
returns on investment (see Annex 3 for economic analyses). Activities under component 4 which
supported a health sector response and hence contributed to increasing access to comprehensive
services were implemented in a satisfactory manner; these activities were relevant to the overall
achievement of project objectives. The project supported a rapid expansion of the number of
health care facilities providing various services such as VCT, prevention of mother to child
transmission and adult antiretroviral therapies.

55.      Some of the activities that were supported by the project and directly link to the
achievement of this PDO include: improvement of quality VCT and PMTCT services through
physical infrastructure development of facilities; and building the capacity for effective
management of HIV/AIDS programming, as well as service delivery. The project also supported
the introduction and testing of models to improve access to services including outreach model to
provision of HCT for hard to reach areas, the scaling up frontiers like TBAs in PMTCT
promotion, education and referral, and the Home Based Care model of transferring skills to
primary care givers, and MH-HIV integration model. The project supported the Extension of
VCT and PMTCT Services and improved access to, and utilization of, VCT and PMTCT
services; it also supported the expansion of ART services and use, including supporting ART
training. In Jonglei State for example, the project supported strengthening of provision of
HIV/AIDS services (VCT, PMTCT and ART) through upgrading and/or adding facilities,
providing equipment/ supplies, training of healthcare workers and provision of supportive
supervision. An example of infrastructure improvement includes the renovation and furnishing of
a new ART Center and VCT at Civil Hospital Bor. The responsible leading agency for Jonglei
(IMA) provided assistance in refurbishment and/ or equipping new VCT centers in 5 counties of
the State, 3 of which carried out PMTCT services; and in addition 2 new VCT centers were
constructed in Uror and Pochalla with the provision of equipment/ furniture to ensure these
facilities are functional.

56.     The main weakness remains attribution of these efforts to the MDTF versus to GFATM
or other sources of funds.




                                               16
 57. Achievement of PDO 3 (Creating awareness and measureable behavior change
 regarding HIV) has been rated moderately unsatisfactory. The project supported awareness
 raising activities and it is likely that these contributed to some behavior change. The project
 supported counseling and testing for pregnant women attending prenatal care services. The
 project also supported the distribution of condoms though these were financed by other agencies
 including UNFPA. The project also supported awareness building efforts through line ministries
 as mentioned above, and in addition some NGOs that represented vulnerable groups such
 People Living with HIV, Commercial Sex Workers, etc. undertook outreach activities to
 improve knowledge, awareness and demand for and use of HIV/ADS prevention services.
 These activities contributed to identifying and delivery of prevention services to Most At Risk
 Population such as PLHIV (72), CSW (9152), 5, 916 clients of CSWs, Long distance drivers
 (2366) and MSM (98). As section F shows, services such as Voluntary Counseling & Testing
 have reached more than 80,000 persons that have been tested and know their HIV status. There
 is however no evidence that supported activities have not induced expected change
 (comparison of 2006/2010 household survey):
    a. A low level of knowledge in both men and women about the means of transmission of
        HIV and how to protect themselves;
    b. A high level of stigma and discrimination against people who might be HIV-positive;
    c. Multiple sexual partners: In the Household Health Survey 2010, 75% of the men who
        answered the question admitted to having two or more wives or other sexual partners, and
        43.2% of the women said that their husbands had other wives. More than 27% of men
        had sex with more than one partner in the past 12 months, and of these, almost half had
        three or more partners; and
    d. Early age of first sex and a low level use of condoms: In the Household Health Survey
        2010 more than 50% of both young men and young women had initiated sexual activity
        by age 16, with a very low level of condom use at either first sex or thereafter.
            .
3.3 Overall Project Efficiency
Rating: Modest (but Substantial for Civil society response)

58.     The original economic analysis conducted at appraisal was done as part of the Multi-
Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) for the Africa Region-Report no 20727, paragraphs 76-7813.
This included an overall assessment of the impact of HIV/AIDS on economic development and
poverty, and a cost-benefit analysis of HIV/AIDS interventions. The HIV/AIDS epidemic in
Africa has gone beyond the health sector and has become a serious socioeconomic development
issue. HIV/AIDS affects a country’s economy through reduced productivity, domestic savings
and economic growth; and increasing the costs of treatment and care for both affected
households and society as a whole. Some of the earlier estimates from MAP on the impact on
GDP growth now appear to be have been overstated. However, there is little doubt AIDS strikes
people in their most productive age, reducing both the size and growth of the nation's labor force.
Care and treatment for AIDS impose enormous costs on households and society at large.

59.    The expected benefits of the project were multifold and the fiscal impact of the
interventions was expected to be small. However, this assumed that GoSS would assume


13
     Multi-country AIDS Project, World Bank, Africa Region, 2006

                                                             17
responsibility for the maintenance of project investments after the closure of the project, which is
clearly not the case. And as must be noted, the cost structure using international NGOs is not
sustainable.

60.     The economic analyses of the project focused on HIV infections likely averted from the
CSW and client interventions, which were reasonably specific to the project. With various
simple assumptions (see Annex 3), the project estimates about 2000 infections were averted over
the project period (or only about 3% of the UNAIDS estimates of new HIV infections over the 5
years). If each infection averted leads to about 22 years of healthy life lost and these are valued
at between 1 to 3 times of GDP14, then a comparison to the project costs using a discount rate of
3% can yield an approximate cost-benefit (Table 4).

Table 4. Estimated cost-benefit/cost-effectiveness of the project
Indicator                        Value@1 X GDP in 000s, USD                     Value @ 3 X GDP in 000s, USD
Project cost, discounted         $14,142                                        $14,142
Net benefits                     67,680                                         231,322
Net present value                $12,290                                        $57,380
Internal rate of return          30%                                            89%
Cost effectiveness (US$ per $321                                                $321
healthy year of life)

 61. The overall favorable cost-benefit and cost-effectiveness of the project and the large rates
 on investment is mostly a function of the extraordinarily large reductions in HIV possible with
 CSW interventions, and should not be viewed as efficiencies in delivery of these services (done
 through generally high cost international NGOs). The relative cost-ineffectiveness of some of
 the other interventions (such as youth programs or VCT) is not an argument to focus narrowly
 only on CSW interventions in future investments. Indeed, creating an enabling environment
 with wide scale awareness is required for most programs, particularly when prostitution is
 illegal, as is the case in South Sudan. Finally, the current unit costs are high, so that it would be
 prohibitively expensive to scale up to wider coverage (most importantly expanding the coverage
 of CSWs to well over 50% from the estimated 20-25% currently).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

 62. The ICR rated the quality of design of the project as relatively weak; the project was
 overly complex for a new government coming out of many years of conflict; the M&E design
 and utilization is also rated Unsatisfactory by the ICR. Implementation was Marginally
 Unsatisfactory for a larger section of implementation period. The ICR rates overall relevance of
 the project as modest after combining relevance of objectives, design and implementation.
 Effectiveness is rated as modest except for the objective of expanding access which is rated
 high. Efficiency is rated as modest overall, but as discussed above, the substantial cost benefit
 and cost-effectiveness of the CSW interventions have a major impact on the overall project. The

14
  Bertozzi et al, HIV/AIDS Prevention and Treatment, in Jamison D.T. et al, Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries,
2nd Edition, World Bank, Oxford University Press, 2006, Chapter 18.

                                                              18
achievement of PDO 3 is difficult to measure. NGO funded efforts to reach CSWs were almost
exclusively funded by the Bank and this component is the most cost-beneficial, hence the
economic analyses of returns on investment can be reasonably attributable to Bank-specific
inputs. These together with the Moderately Satisfactory rating for PDO1; Satisfactory rating for
PDO2 and Moderately Unsatisfactory rating for PDO3 yield an overall outcome rating of
Moderately Unsatisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

   (a)     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

63. Although the project did not have a specific poverty focus, the literature on HIV/AIDS,
including literature from the Africa region, has established that programs that decrease
transmission help reduce the number of poor households which have to resort to more expensive
HIV treatments. Similarly, while the project did not have an explicit gender aspect, empowering
of SWs, and targeted interventions does enable better economic opportunities for these women
since marginalized groups face considerable difficulty in the country. The gains in awareness
among females about HIV prevention were probably small, but did vary considerably across the
states of South Sudan. In part this slow progress reflects high rates of illiteracy and ongoing
civil disruption from wars and conflict.

   (b)     Institutional development impact

64. This project began implementation with a major constraint of lack of capacity in the
newly created SSAC and for almost 2 years, the project was not able to make the expected
progress. However, by project close the capacity of the SSAC to plan, coordinate and monitor
national HIV/AIDS response had been significantly strengthened and with continuous support
of the project, the newly established SSAC is coordinating the national HIV/AIDS response at
state level and central level. The core staff composed of the Deputy Chairperson, CSO
coordinator, and head of M&E department do conduct supervision of AIDS commissions that
are now established in each of the 10 states. In addition, capacity was also built at the state level
HIV/AIDS Directorates of the MOH who coordinate and monitor the delivery of HIV/AIDS
services at local level. The SSAC has also incrementally built its capacity for planning for
HIV/AIDS data for policy makers. The project financed significant investments in state level
SSACs, and these are now in place and funded by GoSS. However, a weakness has been the
lack of coordination of ongoing surveillance activities implemented by different partners
(MOH, NGO’s, etc.); of expansion of surveillance and actual use of the data available for
project monitoring and evaluation.

   (c) Other unintended outcomes and impacts: none.

4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant

65.    The risk at the time of the ICR to development outcomes is considered significant for the
following reasons:

                                                19
     a. The main drivers of new HIV infections in South Sudan continue to be high-risk groups,
        and it is unlikely that even with marked expansion of ARV treatment this will be able to
        keep up with new infections. For this reason, the UNAIDS projections suggest no major
        decrease in the prevalence among adults in South Sudan for the next few years;
     b. High-risk groups have benefitted from specific attention and the civil society component,
        although the weakness from lack of reliable denominators of such groups remains.
        Specifically, the reliable measurement of the number, mapping and practice patterns of
        MARPs continues to be a gap and is not covered under the sentinel surveillance. There is
        little technical assistance underway to meet these gaps;
     c. Future explosive HIV growth in South Sudan is unknown for several reasons. First, many
        African countries, including neighboring countries have seen declines in HIV, which
        reduces HIV prevalence among CSWs or male migrant populations coming to South
        Sudan15. Second, some broad awareness of HIV, while not measured yet through reliable
        national behavioral surveys, is bound to rise from the unusually low levels recorded in
        the 2006/10 surveys. This may arise from increases in education levels. This in turn
        should influence condom use practices, particularly among MARPs. Finally, there are
        unexplained reasons for the decline in HIV in many parts of SSA, and these factors are
        likely to be in play in South Sudan16;
     d. However, the countervailing trends involve projected ongoing male migration (including
        for a booming construction industry), expanding access to ART treatment potentially
        disinhibiting the use of condoms in transactional or high-risk sex. Higher income
        expected is no guarantee of reductions in HIV, especially if sole male migration is a main
        source of income growth. Already, the discrepancies seen in HIV risk patterns across the
        states are likely to be exacerbated. The stakes are large- even a 10% increase in incidence
        in the UNAIDS model based projections would mean an extra 1500 South Sudanese
        being infected per year or a loss of over 33,000 healthy life years;
     e. The project’s the lack of an “exit? or transition strategy to move to GoSS delivered
        services, insufficient resources for HIV/AIDS, weak surveillance and M&E; and
        inadequate planning and management are a concern. As noted below in the lessons
        learned, there might be opportunities for GoSS and the Bank to mitigate these risks
        through forthcoming investments in the health sector.




15
  UNAIDS, 2012, ibid, Gregson et al, 2008 ibid.
16
  Nagelkerke, et al Heterogeneity in host HIV susceptibility as a potential contributor to recent HIV prevalence declines in
Africa. AIDS. 2009 Jan 2;23(1):125-30.

                                                               20
5.         Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

     (a)      Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
              Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

 66. The project design built on the findings of earlier sector work in the region and
 incorporated a number of important lessons learnt. The preparation was also strong on donor
 coordination, and adequate attention to financial supervision. However, there were important
 gaps in ensuring readiness for implementation of a new agency (SSACs), including insufficient
 Bank attention to the high risks from technical inputs of the project at the outset and undue
 emphasis on action across many ministries which was overly complex. No specific assessment
 of the institutional and governance arrangements for the SSACs took place prior to project or
 during the planned reduction in budget by half. Importantly, the original monitoring framework
 was weak, and only strengthened in 2011. Finally, a clear exit strategy or transition strategy to
 GoSS was not outlined. At appraisal, it was known that South Sudan would have substantial
 revenues from petroleum production, and a dialogue to transit funding to GoSS would have
 been appropriate. All these collectively led to delays in the start-up of the project and slow
 implementation during the first two years.

   (b)    Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

67.     Due to the high-risk of the project, the Bank team closely monitored project
implementation through regular joint missions with partners, participated in major consensus
building via the Oversight Committee of the MDTF, and focused on financial management.
After the first two years, when the project was underperforming, specific inputs such as technical
consultants, reworked Results Framework and other efforts to expedite the project appear to have
been successful with increases in capacity, disbursement and project outputs. No formal mid-
Term Review was done, but the major project review meetings in 2010-12 and active
management by the Bank team improved the project’s performance substantially in the latter two
years. The Bank supervision team worked diligently after November 2009 to improve the
performance and the PDO and IP ratings improved before the formal restructuring of June 2011.

   (c)   Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

68.     The overall Bank performance rating was assigned on the basis of the overall design at
entry, ensuing delays in implementation, weak initial indicators, and strong supervision at the
later stages. The Bank recognized problems during implementation and made attempts to
improve performance. By the end of the project, there had been substantial improvements in
progress towards goals, functioning SSACs in the states and major urban areas, and efforts to
ensure that umbrella NGOs were funded to reach MARPs.




                                               21
5.2 Recipient Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

           a. GoSS Moderately Satisfactory

69.     Since its formal establishment, the GoSS recognized the threat of HIV/AIDS to the
country and committed itself to fight HIV/AIDS. Establishment of the HIV/AIDS Commission
to coordinate the national response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic was the first step toward this
objective. It is important to mention that HIV/AIDS control was already the priority of the SPLM,
the freedom fighting predecessor to the GoSS. The GoSS allocation to the project was also a
confirmation of the political commitment to fight HIV. The significant action taken at the higher
level by the government to solve the emerged managerial problems within the commission was
appreciated by the donor community.

           b. SSAC Performance Moderately Satisfactory

70.     There were substantial initial delays in SSAC activities in the first year. As mentioned
above, the difficult start was due to internal managerial problems within the SSAC but the GoSS
took significant action to solve these internal problems. Following this decision in late 2009, the
SSAC saw accelerated implementation of the project through the mobilization of technical
assistance on effective strategies, approaches to reach high-risk groups and the change in the
number of line ministries for the multi-sectoral response. The country now has functional SSAC
offices at the local level, which have the ability to implement and support HIV prevention and
care services, but not sufficient funding to do so.


6.     Lessons Learned

71.     International NGOs might be faster in service delivery but not sustainable over the
long term. Despite the overall project likely being cost-effective and cost-beneficial, it will not
be financially or managerially sustainable for the GoSS to deliver services at high marginal unit
costs via international NGOs. Per person reached costs might be higher under international NGO
delivery models than others and a high per person cost is simply not sustainable. A limitation of
the current project was that it did not explicitly design an “exit? or “handover? strategy from use
of international NGOs.

72.    Engage early on capacity building and use other avenues and partners to reach
goals. Given it’s convening role, the Bank is well placed to now lead on dialogue with GoSS
about strategies to build capacity such that the GoSS can fund and deliver HIV/AIDS services
(mostly via the traditional public sector but also by use of NGO/CBO contracting or other private
delivery) over the next few years. Experience from the transition of the Gates-funded prevention
program to the Government of India can be brought to bear in this effort.

73.     Realistic results-based indicators are essential at the outset. The project has proved
once again the need for (i) objectives and performance indicators to be carefully selected at the
outset; (ii) an adequately designed M&E system to be in place at the start of implementation; (iii)

                                                22
appropriate arrangements to be in place to ensure that information is used strategically for
decision making; and (iv) surveillance activities for HIV/AIDS including estimation of
denominators of target groups needs to be a funded activity with strong technical assistance.

74.    Undue emphasis on inter-sectoral action on HIV/AIDS should be avoided in low
capacity systems. While it is important to build constituencies across various ministries,
complex implementation arrangements that involve various line ministries spreading awareness
of HIV are unlikely to be successful. Specific action, mostly led by MOH and NGOs is needed
for peer-based interventions to decrease HIV transmission and to provide specific supportive
services such as VCTC.


7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

           (a) Recipient/implementing agencies

75.     The South Sudan HIV/AIDS proejct supported by the World Bank contributed to
establish the fundation for a comphensive and coordianted reponse to HIV epidemic in the
country. The project contributed to the strengthening of the South Sudan AIDS commission at
the central level and the state level. The project channeled substantial amount of its resources to
HIV/AIDS affected people as well as people who can help in preventing others from getting
infected. This was directly through community initiatives involving local Non-Government
Organizations (NGOs), Civil Society Organizations (CSOs), religious groups, the private sector
and other groups. The project allowed the introduction of a performance-based contract
approach in the country in which the implementing agencies were paid against achieved results.
Despite the challenges encountered at the start of the project, the achievements of the projects are
encouraging: i) improved availability and use of essential HIV/AIDS services; ii) improved
knowledge of HIV, although the measurable behavioral change is limited; iii) better knowledge
of the dynamic of the HIV epidemic.

76.     Five line ministries and four lead agencies were involved in the implementation of the
project- According to the line ministries, the project contributed to introduce the HIV agenda
into their respective ministry with the establishment of HIV unit in charge of coordinating and
monitoring activities. In addition, the project also helped to increase awareness and improve
access to essential HIV/AIDS services for specific categories of High risk group which could not
reached by NGO’s. For the four lead agencies, despite being very challenging to produce
tangible results in a very short period of time, the project contributed to bring HIV/AIDS
services to the community.




                                                23
Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component
                                           Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of
Components
                                           (USD millions)       (USD millions)         Appraisal
Institutional and capacity building of the $9,187,500 (25%)     $6,700,000 (36%)
                                                                                       73%
SSAC
Line Ministries’ responses                 $3,675,000 (10%)     $1,400,000 (7.5%)         38%
Civil Society Response:                    $18,375,000 (50%)    $9,000,000 (48.4%)        48%
Health Sector Response:                    $5,512,000 (15%)     $1,500,000 (8.6%)         27%
TOTAL                                      $36,750,000 (100%)   $18,600,000 (100%)        51%

(b) Financing
                                          Appraisal Estimate     Actual/Latest Estimate   Percentage of
Source of Funds
                                          (USD millions)         (USD millions)           Appraisal
Borrower/Recipient                        31,750,000.00          17,600,000.00            86,4%
IDA Grant                                 5,000,000.00           1,000,000.00             13,6%
Total                                     36,750,000.00          18,600,000.00            100%


(c) Project Cost by Category
                                                                Actual Disbursement
                                          Appraisal Estimate    (USD millions)            Percentage of
Categories
                                          (USD millions)                                  Appraisal

(1) Goods works and services, including
                                          8, 600, 000           17, 600, 000              204%
Training and Operating Costs
(2) Sub-grants                            4, 400, 000           0                         0%
(3) Unallocated                           3, 000, 000           0                         0%
Total Amount Disbursed                    17, 600, 000          17, 600, 00               100%




                                                         24
Annex 2: Outputs by Component


Output under Component 1: Institutional and capacity building of the SSAC.

77.    The project supported the strengthening of newly established South Sudan HIV/AIDS
Commission as follow:
  a. Establishment of office spaces for the HIV/AIDS commission. The project supported
     procurement of prefabricated offices, procurement and installation of generators,
     procurement of transport and communication means, procurement of office equipment, etc.
  b. Recruitment of core staff for the HIV/AIDS commission: At central level, the project
     supported the recruitment of procurement specialist, financial specialist, M&E specialist,
     CSO coordination and line ministry coordinator. At the state level, the project supported
     the recruitment of SACC coordinator, head of Administrative and financial department and
     M&E specialist. By the closing of the project, all this personals were shifted to the
     government payroll and continue to serve the HIV/AIDS Commission. In addition, the
     project supported the training of staff including those from the line ministries (The project
     facilitated and supported the training of three in Project management and M&E in Uganda
     and Ethiopia.
  c. Development and dissemination of HIV related policy documents and guidelines: The
     project supported the national HIV/AIDS commission to develop, validate and disseminate
     key policy documents such as national HIV/AIDS strategic pan, the HIV/AIDS M&E
     framework and operational plan, different guidelines (VCT, PMTCT, ART, etc.).
  d. Support the operationalization of SSAC’s as well the implementation of the project: At the
     time of appraisal, the government budget allocated to the SSAC’s was very limited,
     therefore in agreement with the government, the project support the operational cost of the
     SSAC’s as well the implementation of the project.
  e. Elaboration and implementation of M&E framework: At the time of the project appraisal,
     the availability of reliable HIV/AIDS data to inform an evidence based data was very
     limited and fragmented. In 2009, the client with the support of the Bank agreed of the
     following activities to contribute the data availability and utilization: i) conduct HIV
     epidemic and response review in South Sudan (Report was validated and disseminated in
     April 2011); ii) integration into the routine HMIS developed by bank supported health,
     collection of data on health related activities (VCT, PMTCT, ART, TB/HIV, Condom
     distribution, etc.). The first monthly HMIS report published by the MOH in February 2012
     contains data on availability and utilization of VCT, PMTCT, TB/HIV, etc. Besides that,
     the project successfully supported SSAC’s to include HIV/AIDS in 2 population based
     surveys: 2009/2010 household survey and 2011 LQAS survey.

78.    The establishment of these institutions contributed to the decentralized management and
coordination of HIV/AIDS response. The State HIV/AIDS commissions, with the support of lead
agencies were coordinating the implementation of HIV/AIDS activities by different
implementers and were submitting regularly a monthly report which summarizes the ongoing
HIV/AIDS activities and their achievements.




                                               25
Table 5: Activities under component 1 and their costs.
                                    Activities                                       Cost
Establishment of SSAC’s offices and procurement of office equipment             3,057,613.00
Recruitment of core staff for the HIV/AIDS commission; capacity building of     1,124,000.00
staff including those from the line ministries trough in job training as well
specific training such master degree training in M&E and project management
Development and dissemination of HIV related policy documents and guidelines.     415,700.00

Elaboration and implementation of M&E framework                                 1,055,000.00

Support the operationalization of SSAC’s as well the implementation of the      1,047,687.00
project

TOTAL                                                                            6,700,000.00

Output under Component 2: Line Ministries Response

79.     The project supported the response of line ministries as follows: Five (Health, Education,
Army, Internal Affairs, and Youth) out of the planned earlier six line ministries (health,
Education, Army, Internal Affairs, Gender and Youth) have implemented their respective plans
and have disbursed the allocated funds. It is important to note that in response to the weak
capacities of most of the line ministries to develop and implement HIV/AIDS specific activities,
SSAC encouraged those line ministries to seek the support of international NGO operating in the
country which had the needed expertise. Thus, Education, Army, Internal Affairs ministries were
supported by different NGO’s to implement their respective plans. The Gender’s Ministry was
not able to submit a work plan to the SSAC despite the support received from SSAC and the
Task team to elaborate the plan. The failure was due to the internal challenges within the
Ministry itself.

80.     The target populations of theses ministries included uniformed personnel and their family,
staff of the ministries and their dependents, school and out school children and prisoners
(Ministry of Internal Affairs). Identified and implemented activities aimed to increase awareness
and induce safe sexual behavior, promote condom use and make them accessible and improve
access to the VCT through HIV test campaign. The support to the Ministry of Education aimed
to complement the ongoing effort from other partners such as UNFPA to introduce HIV/AIDS
module in the school curriculum. The project supported the establishment of 35 anti AIDS clubs
which targeted more than 50, 000 school children. The Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of
Interior implemented their respective action plans on national scale and were aiming to improve
the knowledge; the attitudes toward HIV infected people and promotion of safer sexual behavior.

Output under Component 3: Civil Society Response

81.    The civil society response was implemented with the support of four Lead Agencies and
following activities were implemented:
  a. Support to HIV/AIDS commission and MOH/HIV directorate at the state level with the
     objective of ensuring functional state offices in order to efficiently and effectively
     coordinate, supervise and monitor HIV/AIDS. The lead agencies conducted analysis of the

                                                     26
     portfolio of HIV/AIDS stand-alone projects as well as projects with HIV/AIDS
     components being implemented in respective states and identified gaps;
  b. Extension of health related HIV/AIDS services such as VCT, PMTCT, ART services in the
     states. Under the leadership of the state SSAC’s and state MOH HIV directorate, the lead
     agencies undertook rapid assessment of availability of existing VCT, PMTCT and STI
     services in the states, based on the outcomes of the assessment develop and implement
     extension plan of these services by at least 30% and increase the use of these services by
     the population through ICC and behavioral change activities implemented by local CSOs;
  c. Increase community activities and involvement with the objective to facilitate the
     participation of communities in the design and delivery of HIV/AIDS and STI prevention
     and care services. For this purpose, each lead agency:
         i. Undertook a comprehensive inventory of all NGOs/CSOs/CBOs/FBOs, assessed
              respective capacity needs of the CSOs;
         ii. Provided analysis of the portfolio of HIV/AIDS stand-alone projects as well as
              projects with HIV/AIDS components currently being implemented, identifying gaps.
              Commented on the technical capabilities of NGOs/CBOs to implement HIV/AIDS
              projects.
         iii. Provided a matrix showing which high-risk groups are being served by which
              NGOs/CBOs per geographic area.
         iv. Assessed capacity needs of the CSOs and provided concrete capacity building
              support to the local indigenous NGOs
         v. Involved trained local NGOs in the provision of HIV/AIDS prevention services
              mainly for the Most at Risk Population through small grants system;
         vi. A rapid assessment of the Most at Risk population was carried to identify their
              number, the challenges and risk factors. Based on the outcomes of this assessment
              identify and coordinate implementation of HIV/AIDS prevention and care services
              targeting these groups.


82.    The table below summarizes the contribution of the lead agencies and civil society
organizations to the achievement of the project: (i) More than 50% of newly established VCT
services; (ii) 54.8% of PMTCT newly established services and (iii) Third of new established
ART services.

Table 6: Lead agencies contribution to the project’s achievements.
Activities                                                           Project       CSO/ Lead agency’s
                                                                     achievement   contribution
Improve availability of health related HIV/AIDS services:
VCT                                                                  164           86 (52.4%)
PMTCT                                                                62            34(54.8%)
ART                                                                  22            7 (31.8%)
Improve access and utilization to health related HIV/AIDS
services
VCT                                                                  83890         43075 (51.6%)
PMTCT                                                                49691         36323 (73.09%)
ART                                                                  3492          1345(38.51%)
Number of CSO selected, trained and received small grants            101           NA
from the project to implement HIV prevention activities

                                                     27
Number and category of Most at Risk Population reached by
the project:
CSW
CSW’s clients                                             9152                     9152
MSM                                                       5196                     5196
Long distance drivers                                     98                       98
PLIHV                                                     2366                     2366
Orphans and other vulnerable children                     72                       72
                                                          3491                     3491

83.     Approximately 101 CSOs have been trained and given grants to support the provision of
HIV/AIDS prevention and care services. Some of these NGOs were from vulnerable groups such
People Living with HIV, Commercial Sex Workers, etc. The involvement of the CSO’s helped
the project to achieve even greater results than expected. Thus, improved knowledge and
awareness has increased the demand for and use of HIV/ADS prevention services such as
Voluntary Counseling & Testing (83,890 persons have been tested and know their HIV status).
The implication of the involvement of CSOs has also contributed to identify and deliver
prevention services (Peer education, condoms distribution, etc., to Most At Risk Population such
as PLHIV (72), CSW (9152), 5, 916 clients of CSWs, Long distance drivers (2366) and MSM
(98).

Outputs under Component 4: Heath Sector Response

84.       The HIV/AIDS Directorate of the Ministry of Health was in charge of coordinating the
health sector response. The purpose of this component was to increase availability and use of
HIV/AIDS services through integration of HIV/AIDS prevention and care activities in health
facilities. For this purpose, the HIV/AIDS directorate coordinated the conduct of a rapid
assessment of available health related HIV/AIDS services and based on the outcomes of the
assessment developed and coordinated the implementation or/and implemented directly the
extension plan of these services.

85.      The achieved results in term of availability and use of VCT, PMTC and ART services
have increased: 78 new VCT centers, 28 new PMTCT centers and 15 ART centers were
established with the support of the project and as consequence the utilization of these services
has increased (See table below)
Table 7: Ministry of health contribution to the project’s achievements.
Activities                                         Project achievement    MOH (Health sector component )
                                                                          achievement

Improve availability of health related
HIV/AIDS services:
VCT                                      164                              78 (47.6%)
PMTCT                                    62                               28(45.2%)
ART                                      22                               15(58.2%)
Improve access and utilization to health
related HIV/AIDS services
VCT                                      83890                            40815 (48.7%)


                                                     28
PMTCT                                      49691                13368 (26.9%)
ART                                        3492                 2057(58.9%)

86.     The health sector response was instrumental to the project achievement in the area of
availability and utilization of health related HIV/AIDS essential prevention and treatment
services. In addition to supporting the establishment of above mentioned services managed by
the MOH, the component was instrumental to the achievements of lead agency in the same area.
The health sector response and the civil society response worked closely and complemented each
other. The MOH, HIV/AIDS directorate supported and provided required technical expertise to
the HIV/AIDS commission in the development of policy documents on VCT, PMTCT, ART
treatment, etc. The Component also supported the integration of HIV/AIDS modules into the
planned and executed by the MOH, M&E activities such as population based survey, HMIS,
Health facility survey.




                                             29
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Epidemiological Scenario:

87.     The overall epidemiological scenario in the region suggests that the absolute levels of
HIV infection will continue to increase. UNAIDS projections for the region, based on the
Spectrum Model predict modest ongoing growth of HIV South Sudan among adults, stabilizing
around 2010-2015 (Annex 3, Table 1).17 Unfortunately, the UNAIDS models cannot be reliably
verified by direct surveillance data from South Sudan as the number of pregnant women tested or
other surveillance efforts has been limited to less than 2-3 sites over a few years. The results
from these limited sites also suggest a plateauing of the prevalence of HIV, and as yet no major
declines in infection among pregnant women.

88.     The UNAIDS model estimates also suggest that the absolute number of new infections
will stabilize at about 13,000 per year. The number of new infection estimates is especially
important as it suggests how many of these need to be prevented in order to growth in HIV. As
noted, the number of female sex workers in Juba alone has been estimated to be about 3500 to
10000 alone, with uncertain estimates for how many CSWs live in the country (but an
approximation of about 30,000 based on 2% prevalence in adult women seems reasonable). This
implies that further increases in coverage of CSWs would be needed to have a meaningful dent
in the total number of new infections. Various epidemiological studies in Africa18 have suggested
that most new infections are from downstream transmission from CSWs and male clients, and
South Sudan appears to be no different. Conservatively, even if half of the 13,000 annual new
infections are due to CSWs based transmission, then this would suggest that the number of
CSWs enrolled in peer-led condom programs needs to rise substantially from a few hundred to
several thousand to impact HIV incidence meaningfully in South Sudan. The current project has
shown that even modest expansion to a few hundred CSWs is possible and is cost-effective, and
has provided the institutional structures with the SSACs and NGOs to do so. The major
challenge to slow growth of the overall HIV epidemic in South Sudan will thus require major
scale up in CSW coverage.

89.    Consistent with this increase in CSW coverage will be the need to expand surveillance
and other supportive services, such as good access to condoms, STI treatment, lowering stigma
and police harassment of CSWs and other steps.

Economic and Financial Analysis:

90.     The PAD had no direct an economic analysis with estimated rate of return. The estimates
made were from the regional MAP about broad benefits of HIV/AIDS control. Thus, no
comparison to baseline estimates of economic return is possible. However, very crudely, if the
project covered (conservatively) about 9000 CSWs and 8000 high-risk men, these would, based
on the literature, represent about 4000 new HIV cases avoided of which half were assumed to be
using condoms and having safe sex prior to the project. Thus, the 2000 avoided HIV cases from


17
  UNAIDS 2012, ibid
18
  Chen, PLOS One, 2009, ibid, Gregson et al, 2008 ibid

                                                         30
the project represent about 22 years of Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALY; weighted by age
preference and a discount rate of 3 percent), or about 44,000 DALYs saved over a 20-year period.
If each DALY is valued (again conservatively) at between 1 to 3 times the South Sudan average
GDP of US$1500/capita (adjusted for a 5 percent annual income growth), then the discounted
value would be US$67 to US$ 230 million. The discounted project costs are about US$14
million (assuming an inflation rate of 13 percent). Thus, in crude terms, the total economic
benefit exceeds the projected costs. This further suggests that high coverage of high-risk groups
might have made the economic returns from the project even greater. However, the estimation is
not sensitive to discount or inflation rates, but is sensitive to the value of life- if each healthy
year of life is valued only at average per capita income, then the project is far less cost-beneficial.
Finally, the lack of alignment of outputs of the project with the reduced HIV transmission
effectively means that it is quite difficult, if not impossible, to assess the economic returns from
the rest of the project. Surveillance activities generate important information effects and as
public goods, it is hard to evaluate the returns from such information. Similarly, the efficiencies
from having a SSAC active in each state are difficult to assess. That is not to state that the
economic returns from the rest of the small grants program would be zero. A recommendation
from this ICR is to organize a formal economic analysis of the project.

91.     Finally, a full fiscal impact is not undertaken here. The costs of running the SSACs can
be easily incorporated into South Sudan’s annual health budgets (as noted in earlier analyses by
the Bank). The major recurrent cost liabilities are those of ARV drugs and supplies for treatment
of the health facilities. However, these are small in comparison to the overall MOH budget in
South Sudan at current levels of coverage. In this case, the overall fiscal burden associated with
the project is small. That is not to state that the costs for ARV treatment are small and if the true
numbers of patients estimated by UNAIDS (see table 8 below) were to avail of ARV treatment,
then the costs would be much higher and likely well beyond the affordability of the GoSS. A
greater discussion of these costs in the African setting has been recently described by Over and
colleagues.19




19
  Over M. 2008. “Opportunities for Presidential Leadership on AIDS: From an ‘Emergency Plan’ to a Sustainable Policy.? In
The White House and the World: A Global Development Agenda for the Next U.S. President. Center for Global Development


                                                            31
Table 8.UNAIDS Spectrum Past estimates of HIV prevalence, new infections, AIDS deaths and other indicators for 1995, 2000, 2005, 2010 and forward
projections from 2011-2015.
 Summary Table Extended
                                1995       2000      2005        2010        2011      2012       2013        2014       2015
 Prevalence Adult
  Lower 2.50%                    0.03       0.67      2.03       2.11        2.08         2       2.02        2.04       2.05
  Median 50%                      1.1       2.35      2.99       3.06        3.05      3.06       3.08          3.1      3.12
  Upper 97.50%                   1.69       3.37      4.09         4.1         4.1     4.12       4.16          4.2      4.22
 New HIV infections- Adult
  Lower 2.50%                    965       6,937     7,543      8,196       8,511     8,730      8,687       8,583      8,729
  Median 50%                   8,259      13,242   12,157      12,758      13,064   13,316      13,200     12,923      12,958
  Upper 97.50%                30,666      28,415   18,862      17,806      18,308   18,737      18,451     17,742      17,782
 Annual AIDS deaths
  Lower 2.50%                      16        329     2,971      7,286       7,563     7,381      6,829       6,541      6,447
  Median 50%                   1,243       3,902     7,736     10,724      11,087   10,714       9,819       9,406      9,305
  Upper 97.50%                 5,289       5,922   10,640      15,112      15,517   14,771      13,396     12,821      12,677
 Mothers needing PMTCT
  Lower 2.50%                      49      1,277     4,673      5,171       5,144     5,119      5,080       5,054      5,023
  Median 50%                   2,363       5,470     7,306      7,825       7,839     7,846      7,877       7,924      7,950
  Upper 97.50%                 4,071       8,017   10,776      10,954      10,954   10,934      11,064     11,076      11,082
 HIV population (15-49)
  Lower 2.50%                     856     21,531   71,917      85,454      86,365   86,074      89,247     92,499      95,792
  Median 50%                  31,838      75,238  105,014    123,287      126,650  130,560    135,071     139,563     144,044
  Upper 97.50%                48,773    107,745   143,867    164,886      169,267  174,893    181,210     187,755     194,207
 Number of new HIV
 infections
  Lower 2.50%                     881      8,509     9,426      9,987      10,221   10,365      10,279     10,159      10,214
  Median 50%                   9,087      15,123   14,716      15,524      15,795   15,929      15,676     15,288      15,209
  Upper 97.50%                28,161      28,993   21,608      21,694      22,118   22,219      21,709     20,864      20,777




                                                                                                                                              32
 Table 9. Project Costs, Benefits, and Internal Rate of Return (all costs in thousands)

                                                       Nominal                      Discounted      Nominal        Discounted
                                                       Benefits                     Benefits        Benefits       Benefits
                                                       (DALYs                       (DALYs          (DALYs         (DALYs
                                                       averted): 1                  averted): 1 X   averted): 3    averted): 3 X   Net         Net
          MDTF                           Total costs   X GDP                        GDP             X GDP          GDP             benefits,   benefits,
          Disbursements                  (000) Real,   estimate        DALY         estimate        estimate       estimate        real Low,   real High,
 Year     (000s)             Inflation   2011 terms    (000s)          discount     (000s)          (000s)         (000s)          000s        000s
 2008     2,000              1.00        2,000         -               1.00                         -                              (2,000)     (2,000)
 2009     4,000              0.89        3,556         693             0.97         673             2,079          2,018           (2,883)     (1,537)
 2010     5,000              0.79        3,951         1,819           0.94         1,715           5,457          5,144           (2,236)     1,193
 2011     6,600              0.70        4,635         2,865           0.92         2,622           8,595          7,866           (2,013)     3,231
 2012                        0.62        -             4,011           0.89         3,564           12,034         10,692          3,564       10,692
 2013                        0.55        -             4,859           0.86         4,192           14,578         12,575          4,192       12,575
 2014     -                  0.49        -             5,102           0.84         4,273           15,307         12,819          4,273       12,819
 2015     -                  0.44        -             5,357           0.81         4,356           16,072         13,068          4,356       13,068
 2016     -                  0.39        -             5,603           0.79         4,423           16,809         13,269          4,423       13,269
 2017     -                  0.35        -             6,023           0.77         4,616           18,068         13,848          4,616       13,848
 2018     -                  0.31        -             6,324           0.74         4,706           18,972         14,117          4,706       14,117
 2019     -                  0.27        -             6,640           0.72         4,797           19,920         14,391          4,797       14,391
 2020     -                  0.24        -             6,972           0.70         4,890           20,916         14,670          4,890       14,670
 2021     -                  0.22        -             7,321           0.68         4,985           21,962         14,955          4,985       14,955
 2022     -                  0.19        -             7,687           0.66         5,082           23,060         15,246          5,082       15,246
 2023     -                  0.17        -             8,071           0.64         5,181           24,213         15,542          5,181       15,542
 2024     -                  0.15        -             8,475           0.62         5,281           25,424         15,843          5,281       15,843
 2025     -                  0.14        -             8,898           0.61         5,384           26,695         16,151          5,384       16,151
 2026     -                  0.12        -             9,343           0.59         5,488           28,030         16,465          5,488       16,465
 2027     -                  0.11        -             9,811           0.57         5,595           29,432         16,784          5,595       16,784
 Totals   $17,600                        $14,142       115,875                      81,821          347,625        245,464         67,680      231,322
                                                                                                                             NPV   $12,290     $57,380
                                                                                                                             IRR   30%         89%

Assumptions: Inflation rate of 13%, Discount rate of 3%, GDP growth of 5%
Cost-effectiveness: Cost $14,142; DALYS saved 44,000, Ratio: $321 per DALY. This ratio is considered cost-effective.




                                                                                                                                                      33
 Year      HIV            DALYs        GDP (2011           Low: 1 DALY=         High: 1 DALY=
           infections     averted      terms) per capita   1 X per capita       3 X per capita
           averted        (000s)                           GDP (in 000s)        GDP (in 000s)
 2009                       -          1,500               -                     -
 2010        250            0.44       1,575               693                   2,079
 2011        350            1.10       1,654               1,819                 5,457
 2012        600            1.65       1,736               2,865                 8,595
 2013        800            2.20       1,823               4,011                 12,034
 2014                       2.54       1,914               4,859                 14,578
 2015                       2.54       2,010               5,102                 15,307
 2016                       2.54       2,111               5,357                 16,072
 2017                       2.53       2,216               5,603                 16,809
 2018                       2.59       2,327               6,023                 18,068
 2019                       2.59       2,443               6,324                 18,972
 2020                       2.59       2,566               6,640                 19,920
 2021                       2.59       2,694               6,972                 20,916
 2022                       2.59       2,828               7,321                 21,962
 2023                       2.59       2,970               7,687                 23,060
 2024                       2.59       3,118               8,071                 24,213
 2025                       2.59       3,274               8,475                 25,424
 2026                       2.59       3,438               8,898                 26,695
 2027                       2.59       3,610               9,343                 28,030
 2028                       2.59       3,790               9,811                 29,432
 SUM         2,000          44.00                          115,875               347,625
Assumptions                       No      Source
CSW reached                       10000 M&E reports
No partner/CSW/year               240     CDC report
Transmission rate                 0.002 Literature, assuming co infections
Prevalence in CSW                 15%     Assume 5 times general population prevalence
New infections over 5 years       3600
Clients reached                   8200    M&E reports
No partners per year              100     CDC report/assume 2 CSWs per week
Transmission rate                 0.001 Literature, assuming less efficient female to male transmission
Prevalence in clients             9%      Assume 3 times general population prevalence
No of new infections over 5 years 369
Assumed total                     ~4000 of which 50% already use condoms, so ~2000 new infections prevented by the project
Starting GDP at $1500 GDP growth of 5% a year



                                                                                                                             34
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
                                                                                Responsibility/
             Names                            Title                  Unit
                                                                                  Specialty
Lending
Khama Odera Rogo            Lead Health Specialist                 ATTHE TTL
Pascal Tegwa                Senior Procurement Specialist          AFTPE
Mohamed Yahia               Sr. Financial management Specialist    MNAFM
Amy Ba                      Team Assistant                         AFTHE

Supervision/ICR
Mohamed Ali Kamil           Senior Health Specialist               AFTHE TTL
Benjamin Loevinsohn         Lead Health Specialist                 AFTHE Cluster leader
Noriko Oe                   Consultant                             AFTHE
Prosper Nindorera           Senior Procurement Specialist          LCSPT
Anjani Kumar                Senior Procurement Specialist          AFTPE
Adenike Sherifat Oyeyiola   Sr. Financial management Specialist    AFTME
Joyce Wani Gamba            Team Assistant                         AFMJB

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                            USD Thousands (including travel
                                  No. of staff weeks
                                                                  and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY07                                                                                    74,103.45

Supervision/ICR
  FY08
  FY09
  FY10
  FY11
  FY12
  FY13
Total:                                                                                  276,375.48




                                                                                                  35
Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A

Annex 6: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                                   36
Annex 7: Summary of Recipient’s ICR


Introduction and Context

92.      According to UNAIDS estimates HIV prevalance in South Sudan is estimated at 3%
among adult population but the country shares borders with countries reported to have high rates
of HIV/AIDS (Uganda 6.5%, Kenya, 6.3%, Ethiopia, 1.1%, DRC 3.4%, Central African
Republic 4.9%). The nature of the epidemic is generalized low although there are “hot spots?
where it has matured and is grounded. With increased population movement and interaction
across borders since the signing of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement and the independence
to a sovereign state of the Republic of South Sudan, there is potential for the epidemic to blow-
up. Access to health care is limited and the available health facilities are poorly resourced with
frequent stock outs of drugs and shortage of trained health workers. According to national
surveillance report of 2010 the HIV prevalence is estimated to be 5.7% and conditions for rapid
spread of the disease is high given the high illiteracy levels, polygamous families and high
traditional heterosexual behaviors which could potentiate rapid HIV transmission. As part of the
project start-up activities, through a consultative process key stakeholders in each state
participated in a rapid assessment and mapping of HIV/AIDS interventions to establish the gap.
From this exercise it was evident that there are very few HIV/AIDS services in each respective
state to meet the needs of the growing epidemic.

Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

93. A rapid response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic was proposed and expected to succeed
through direct involvement of the communities. Thus, the project channeled substantial amount
of its resources to HIV/AIDS affected people as well as people who can help in preventing
others from getting infected. This was directly through community initiatives involving local
Non-Government Organizations (NGOs), Civil Society Organizations (CSOs), religious groups,
the private sector and other groups. This was the basis for a performance-based contract in
which Lead Agencies were given the responsibility and are held accountable for: (i) improving
the delivery of a basic package of HIV/AIDS prevention, care, and treatment services especially
in urban areas and among most at risk groups (MARGs) with an initial focus on behavior
change communications, VCT, PMTCT, and ART services; and (ii) strengthening the key
stewardship functions of the SSAC and MOH/HIV directorate at state level, with an initial
focus on improving the coordination and supervision of HIV/AIDS services, monitoring and
evaluation, and building the capacities of local civil society organizations.

94. The Government of South Sudan secured funding from the World Bank and other donors
to implement the Southern Sudan HIV/AIDS Project. Under the funding the Government
undertook actions to address the issues related to HIV/AIDS through Line Ministries, the South
Sudan AIDS Commission (SSAC), the Ministry of Health (MOH), Civil Society Organizations
and the civil society at large. The project was recognized as a multi-sectoral response to
HIV/AIDS. It was designed as a rapid response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic through direct
involvement of the communities with funding channeled through the following Lead Agencies:
Christian Health Association of Sudan (CHAS) (covering Western Equatoria and Lakes),
International HIV/AIDs Alliance (covering Central and Eastern Equatoria), IMA (covering


                                                                                               37
Jonglei and Upper Nile) and HealthNetTPO (covering Western Bahr el Ghazal, Northern Bahr
el Ghazal, Unity and Warap) which were assigned to support interventions in the states of
South Sudan. The objectives of the assignment for Lead Agencies was to strengthen the
delivery of HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment services, building the capacity of the State
SSACs and State MOH departments, and strengthening the ability of local CSOs/NGOs. The
emphasis was expansion and scaling up of VCT, PMTCT and ART services in the states.

Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes:

   a. There was significant delay in the transfer of the additional fund into the LA’s accounts
      in some instances though the transfer process was completed earlier enough from the
      office of SSAC. This has impacted the implementation of activities.
   b. Shortage of test kits throughout the project period. This has resulted in some of the
      existing VCT and PMTCT sites not to provide services for the community.
   c. Recruitment of companies to carry out construction and renovation of the facilities in
      some states was a major challenge.
   d. Insecurity and heavy rains in some states has been a challenge and has affected project
      implementation. Poor infrastructure, roads and lack of telephone lines have all been a
      challenge in reaching to the partners, providing TA and supervision and monitoring
   e. Shortage of condoms both the generic and the marketed condoms. Demand has been
      created through the IEC/BCC awareness and supply was not there. This is caused
      beneficiaries to start questioning why the project is promoting use of condoms and test
      when services are not available (no condoms and no test kits).
   f. Poor documentation of activities by the partners despite training and TA provided.
   g. High expectation from this project from the local authority, the community leaders and
      beneficiaries despite project objectives and deliverables has been clearly discussed and
      shared with all.
   h. High staff turnover in implementing the project activities. Staffs are trained and they
      leave or move to another location leaving gaps and calls for more training and capacity
      building.

Assessment of Outcomes

The following are examples of achievements by the various lead agencies:

95. International HIV/AIDs Alliance: The international HIV/AIDS Alliance was lead
Agency for East and Central Equatoria States an arrangement that aimed to address challenges
in a decentralized manner; strengthening state government response to HIV/AIDS; intensive
and participatory capacity building approach at three levels: State (initially and later extend to
counties), facilities (PHCCs) and community. The project supported the State AIDS
Commissions (SACs) and MOH/HIV department State level (SMoH) to lead and manage the
HIV/AIDS response in close collaboration with local County Health Departments (CHD) and
the County AIDS Commissions (CACs), while in parallel appropriate technical and financial
resources were channeled to an array of PHCCs and community based organizations (CBOs)
and other groups like PLHIV networks. The approach was to improve the delivery of high
quality comprehensive HIV/AIDS services for PLHIV through: Improvement of leadership



                                                                                               38
skills, Strengthening the community systems upon which HIV/AIDS service delivery relies,
Building key technical and managerial skills where they are needed, Ensuring coordination and
building partnership between civil society, the community and local government, as well as
between the HIV sector and other social sectors such as health, education and the private sector,
and targeting of the populations that are most at risk for HIV (MARPs) and areas with high
prevalence.

96. The lead agency conducted key assessments and surveys in initial phase of the project
including: Health facilities mapping; Community Based Organizations capacity assessment; and
rapid assessment of the Most at Risk population. Target beneficiaries and clients reached
included: 254, 000 youth, men, women, CSWs, MSM, OVC, PLHIV and truck drivers. Lead
agency also provided training and capacity building of implementing partners and health
workers including training in ART and IMAI training for clinicians and health workers on
Integrated Management of Adolescent and Adults (IMAI) and ART; PMTCT training for
midwives and county supervisors. The Alliance also provided support that included support to
seven (7) CBOs with assets such as tables, office chairs, desk top computers, printers,
generators, motor bikes and a cameras. A select list of achievements of the implementing
partners of the Alliance (by end of the project) in Central Equatoria State: Number of OVC aged
0 - 17 whose household received free basic external support in caring for the child: 533 OVC
received support in forms of food, cash, and scholastic materials in CES; Number of women
reached with HIV/AIDS IEC/BCC programs was 50,091 includes young girls reached through
IEC/BCC. 59 Number of MSM reached with HIV/AIDS IEC/BCC programs. In Eastern
Equatoria State: 3001 women referred to PMTCT services; 7129 Number of people mobilized
and educated on HCT, care and treatment services.

97. Christian Health Association of Sudan (CHAS): Conducted Baseline Assessments in
collaboration with SSAC, SMOH and development partners operating in target States, including
rapid assessment and mapping of current HIV prevention and treatment services; a simple
household cluster survey using LQAS methodology to establish current knowledge, attitudes,
and HIV prevention practices of men, women, young people, PLHIVs and Orphans in a sample
of one urban county in each state; institutional capacity assessment of NGOs/CBOs selected to
deliver HIV interventions under this project; rapid facility assessment to determine potential to
serve as VCT, PMTCT and ART site, and gaps in technical capacity, systems and quality
assurance. The project also supported Behaviour Change Communication to increase
knowledge of problem and modes of transmission, PMTCT, HCT, ART; Community
HIV/AIDS prevention education and service promotion through radio programs, bill boards,
IEC material distribution, religious leaders, school programs, local theatre events; Community
HIV/AIDS prevention education and service promotion targeting in-school and out-of-school
young people through peer education, radio programs, support groups/clubs; HIV/AIDS
prevention education and service promotion targeting the military, IDP and returnees through
IEC material distribution, group education sessions, religious leaders and local radio programs;
Education of Positive Prevention Practice model targeting PLHIV associations, through peer
support meetings, status disclosure events, world AIDS day campaign events; Promotion of
condom acceptance, use and distribution among PLHIVs, CSW, truck drivers and general adult
population. The lead agency most importantly supported Extension of VCT and PMTCT
Services: The project increased access to and utilization of VCT and PMTCT service in both



                                                                                              39
Western Equatoria and Lakes states in the following ways: Introduced outreach system;
Refurbished PHCCs and PHCUs; Trained VCT/PMTCT counsellors; and trained TBAs and
educators, promoters, mobilizers and effective referral sources for PMTCT services. It provided
1,200,000 HIV testing kits as the country was experiencing a six months stock out. They also
supported the expansion of ART: sponsored ART training for 10 service providers from two
sites selected for expansion of ART services; worked in close collaborations with South Sudan
Network of People Living with HIV (SSNeP+) eleven (11) PLHIV associations, 10 in Western
Equatoria and one in Lakes state were supported to increase effective referrals for ARV uptake.
Funds were provided to support transportation of clients for ARV follow-up visits and nutrition
support for clients on ARV but desperate for basic food.

98. Interchurch Medical Assistance (IMA): The LA carried out the mapping of HIV/AIDS
services within the different health care facilities as well as mapping of the CBOs implementing
HIV/AIDS activities in the states. A thorough capacity assessment of the CBOs was conducted,
after the preliminary results of the assessment, the Lead Agency called for proposals to scale up
BCC activities in the selected counties. In collaboration with the SMoH, health facilities were
identified where LA would support HIV/AIDS services. Assessment of health facilities in terms
of infrastructure, staffing and training was undertaken. Mapping of the MARPS (Most at risk
populations for HIV), especially the Commercial sex workers (CSWs)in urban areas such Bor
Town and Border points such as Pochalla were conducted in early 2011. The project supported
Behavior Change Communication (BCC) targeting the general population as well as MARPS. A
total of 4 CBOs were selected and were sub-contracted to implement BCC activities in 6
counties with some activities carried out in the health facilities including Jonglei Women’s
Association; Back Home; Pochalla Youth Association; Fangak Women’s Association. The main
activities carried out by the sub- contracted CBOs included: Community mobilization and
sensitization, health education on VCT, PMTCT and other HIV/AIDS services, distribution of
condoms and IEC materials. Examples of communication activities included: workshops with
Government officials; Radio Coverage: HIV /AIDs radio talk shows on radio Jonglei FM
covered topics such as ways of preventing HIV, modes of transmission, promotion of condom
use and promotion of HIV service utilization. The program highlighted VCT, PMTCT and ART
services in Bor state Hospital. Outreach activities organized for the Jonglei state prisons,
reaching 268 prisoners conveying HIV prevention messages both to prisoners and Prison
Officers; where 500 condoms were distributed, 23 people were tested for HIV where 3 were
found positive; 2 men and 1 female and referred to ART clinic for care and treatment. Condom
promotion and distribution was continued through County Health departments (CHDs) and
facilities supported by International and National organizations in where a t total of about
95,520 condoms distributed through project activities. Provision of HIV/AIDS services ( VCT,
PMTCT and ART) in Jonglei State was strengthened and expanded through upgrading and/or
adding facilities, providing equipment/ supplies, training of healthcare workers and provision of
supportive supervision. At the onset of the project, there were 4 facilities providing quality HIV
counseling and testing and 3 PMTCT services. By the end of the project, the number of service-
providing facilities had reach more than doubled for each type of service. One of the
infrastructure improvement projects was the renovation and furnishing of a new ART Center
and VCT at Civil Hospital Bor. IMA provided assistance in refurbishment and/ or equipping
new VCT centers in 5 counties of the State, 3 of which carried out PMTCT services. 2 new
VCT centers were constructed in Uror and Pochalla with the provision of equipment/ furniture



                                                                                               40
to ensure these facilities are functional. VCT counselors were trained prior to the completion of
the construction work. On Training: The LA in collaboration with SAC and SMoH organized
and conducted various types of training for different categories of practitioners and stakeholders
including Clinicians, nurses, and individuals from ministries, schools, the private sector etc.
Achievements of the campaign: 4772 people were reached with HIV/AIDS messages &
informed about the availability of HCT, PMTCT and ART services; 4450 male condoms were
distributed; A total of 1746 people were screened for HIV comprising of 1120 males (64%) and
626 females (36%) out of which the key findings were: 71.5% were married and 28.5% singles;
Most of the beneficiaries were between the age of 20 – 29 years accounting for 47% of the total.
The LA also supported Capacity building of selected NGOs /CBOs. 42 participants from
various CBOs trained on intensive management training; Ongoing technical support to 4 CBOs
sub-contracted to carry out BCC activities in the 6 assigned counties; Institutional capacity
building for the selected CBOs through provision of vital office equipment, furniture etc.
Capacity Building of SSAC and SMoH: included Joint operational activities such as
organization and conduction of basic HIV/AIDS and PMTCT training of focal persons from the
Line Ministries, Commissions and the private sector, involvement in the evaluation of CBOs
proposals for BCC/IEC activities, outreach activities as for the prisons ant MARPs Targeted
training of some staff enrolled in 3 months of basic computer training, 2 SSAC training in
management training course, 4 senior staff from SSAC and SMoH trained on District Health
Information Software (DHIS); Joint supportive supervision; Coordination; Facilities/
infrastructure improvement or development;

99. Healthnet TPO: Supported the project in Western Bahr el Ghazal, Northern Bahr el
Ghazal states, Unity and Warap states. As with the other agencies the start was with Baseline
assessment which found, for example, that the combined VCT, PMTCT & ART services
delivery sites were very limited and concentrated to the state capital; VCT, PMTCT & ART
services are predominantly delivered in health facilities; however, the integration of HIV/AIDS
service provision in the Basic Package of Health Services (BPHS) was weak; VCT services
were being delivered in the health facility and as an outreach; Provider initiated counseling and
testing (PICT) was not systematically integrated in the health facilities; Weak referral system to
link clients diagnosed to be HIV positive from different VCT, PMTCT and TB centers to Wau
Teaching Hospital ART clinic; Weak coordination of all stakeholders supporting HIV services;
Diagnostic testing and counseling is provided in 9 out of 13 TB treatment centers in the 4 states
and that the monitoring and evaluation system was weak. The agency carried out the following
at central level including Coordination meetings with other Lead Agencies; Meetings at SSAC.
They supported the development of Template for Sub-contracting; Assessment of NGOs/CBOs
proposals CBOs/NGOs proposals and development of BCC intervention strategy. Activities
implemented at State level in Western Bahr El Ghazal included facilitation of various
coordinating mechanisms; and reviews of strategies on BCC Strategy and IEC/BCC Materials
and the State BCC Intervention strategy was shared with SAC and SMOH for their input and
comments. In Northern Bahr El Ghazal supported activities that included conducting Training
Needs Assessment of SAC/SMOH: The main capacity gaps identified were in the areas of
computer literacy, monitoring and evaluation, planning and financial management, and
conceptualisation of Job Descriptions. Conducted mapping of health providers and CSOs: The
mapping identified seven (7) health providers namely 5 hospitals and 2 PHCCs; and fourteen
(14) CSOs which include 3 INGOs and 11 CBOs in Aweil West, Aweil East, Aweil South and



                                                                                               41
Aweil Central. In Unity improvement of HIV/AIDS Clinical Services: HealthNet TPO together
with SAC and SMOH made a joint visit to Bentiu hospital to assess the PMTCT and ART
services. In Warrap, establishment of a State coordination mechanism among all the various
stakeholders active in HIV/AIDS in the region. This lead agency supported Capacity Building
of Implementing Partners: The training of sub-contracted CBOs/NGOs on various topics
related to HIV/AIDS and financial management. Identification of new VCT and PMTCT sites.
In Northern Bahr-El Ghazal State: Scaling up VCT and PMTCT services: The expansion of
VCT and PMTCT services with establishment of three new VCT sites in the following Health
facilities: Aweil Civil hospital in Aweil Central; Nyamlell PHCC in Aweil West and a new
VCT and PMTCT in Gordhim Hospital in Aweil East. 20 Peer educators were also trained to
promote the sites and provide referrals to VCT/STI Services. 43 clients are already counselled
and tested and received test result, two (2) clients confirmed positive. In Western Bahr- El
Ghazal: 5 existing PMTCT and 3 existing VCT were strengthened. In Warrap State setting up
of new VCT site, peer education training, regular coordination meetings, routine monitoring of
VCT and PMTCT services and Commemoration of the WAD 2011. The following is the
description of progress made: Setting up of VCT centre in Mariallou hospital Tonj North
County Making voluntary counselling and testing (VCT) services available has been proved to
encourage people to determine their HIV status and to take the appropriate measures to prevent
the transmission of HIV. As part of efforts to increase number of VCT and PMTCT services at
the state, HealthNet supported expansion of the number of health facilities providing quality
HIV counseling and testing to 5 VCT and 6 PMTCT sites, and Set up a new HIV testing and
counselling site in Mariallou hospital Tonj North County in Warrap.

Selected Lessons learnt


100. High expectation from this project and Project duration was short. The project scope of
work was wide from IEC/BCC to capacity building and service delivery. There are many
challenges in South Sudan as a new country which affects implementation of projects. It is
recommended that future similar projects should be for three years to have long term and allow
enough time for completion of activities.

101. Involvement of Country Aids Commission and State Aids Commission in direct
supervision of the implementing partners has improved the support and quality of project
implemented by the partners. This was in form of coordination meetings, Technical assistance,
report collection and monitoring of activities in the community. And also it has covered the gap
that is been created by very mobile management of some of the organizations.

102. Future projects should also focus on capacity building and training of state leadership and
authorities such as chiefs, Payam administrators, County commissioners, and honorable
members of local Parliament. The local people listen more to their leaders therefore equipping
their leaders with HIV knowledge will greatly help change the negative attitude and stigma
towards HIV and PLHIV.




                                                                                             42
103. Ensure design of future programs consider some of the external factors that weakened the
design of MDTF such as longer timeframe, better targeting of population, commodity
allocation, achievable and relevant indicators and also line budgets for commodities.

104. Outreach and mobile services has worked well and many people are utilizing services
than when static facilities. This is due to the fact that services are closer to the people. Future
projects should take this into consideration and ensure more outreach services as more staff are
been recruited, trained and facilities been scale up.

105. Media coverage in raising community awareness on HIV/AIDS- the involvement of the
media was one of the key strategies for raising of community awareness on HIV/AIDS as well
as community mobilization and promotion advocacy for scaling up HIV/AIDS activities in the
community with special focus on the youth groups through visual dimension on HIV
prevention, condom use promotion, capacity building, peer education with vulnerable
populations such as youth, women and the local communities through TV (Straight Talk
Network) and Radio (Heavens Lights the World) program activities.

106. Mainstreaming of HIV/AIDS into Line Ministries- under the project, the Government
undertook actions to address the issues related to HIV/AIDS through Line Ministries and the
civil society at large. The key objective of the funds was aimed at: i) Provision of technical and
financial support to mainstream HIV/AIDS policies, development of plans and budgets at GoSS
and state levels and strategic Government departments at county level in line with HIV/AIDS
policy; and ii) Support the establishment of HIV/AIDS focal points in Line Ministries. Some of
the Line Ministries which benefited from the funds from the period of July 2010 to September
2012 are i) Ministry of SPLA Affairs; ii) Ministry of Health; iii) Ministry of Internal Affairs; iv)
Ministry of Education and v) Ministry of Youth Culture and Sports.


Sustainability

107. This end-of project review of the project provides concrete recommendations for
improvements in the design and execution of similar undertakings in the revised National
HIV/AIDS Strategic Framework for South Sudan. It will enhance higher probability of
sustainable impact of future programs. The impact of this project is the reduction of new
HIV/AIDS infections particularly in “hot spots? like Western Equatoria where the prevalence is
significantly higher than any other place in South Sudan. Sustainability and feasibility of scale-
up of community based interventions aimed at empowering the community for sustained
knowledge and preventive actions for HIV/AIDS prevention and was therefore considered by
this project from the outset in the program design.

108. This review therefore appraises sustainability by focusing on two specific elements of
program sustainability; capacity for continuity and community participation and contribution to
long-term solutions for resolving long-term problem. This is in line with the idea that
production of health begins or happens mostly at the household level. Parameters of the extent
to which interventions initiated by the project will be sustained beyond the life of this project is
evident in sustainability strategies embedded both in the design and implementation approaches
applied. These include: i) Interventions are locally managed by local organizations operating in


                                                                                                 43
the area, local government departments and by community residents; ii) Incorporation or/and
integration of interventions initiated or supported by the project in the States’ HIV/AIDS
response; iii) Incorporated adequate human resource development; iv) Sustained government
involvement; v) Integrated in the broad national HIV/AIDS Strategic Framework of ROSS; vi)
Inclusion of stakeholders in the design and oversight; vii) Sustenance of behaviors change.

109. On the overall the design of this project lends itself to successful attainment of
sustainability aspects listed above. However the extent to which each of these aspects has been
addressed varies state by state and also the level of attainment varies.
    a. In all countries the project is co-managed by a local team comprising of staff from
        FBOs, CBOs, NOGs and PLHIV associations. Government counterparts from SAC and
        SMOH are fully engaged or significantly involved;
    b. In both states activities under this project been incorporated in the State plans including
        the annual operational plans (AOP). The interpretation is that the projects formed part of
        the State priorities and are likely to receive budgetary support from the Government and
        other partners;
    c. Project allocated significant resource to human capacity building with good number of
        the relevant workforce having been trained in HIV/AIDS programming, managing,
        advocating, monitoring and evaluation. Various technical teams of local residents exist
        in target communities;
    d. Sustaining change or results in behaviors and practices takes from an evidence-based
        communication and advocacy strategy and fortunately the SSMHA project supported
        development of messages based on research findings.


Recommendations:
      a. The key challenges/ constraints mentioned above needs to be addressed adequately in
         future project interventions for sustainable and effective project with a clear exit
         strategy;
      b. Future similar projects should consider supporting a community advocacy strategy to
         influence strong social and cultural impediments to achieving the reduction of New
         HIV infections. Current social/cultural environment the supports wife inheritance,
         early/arranged marriages, cross generation sexual relationships and prolonged
         separation among married undermine all HIV prevention efforts;
      c. Increasing access and utilization of HIV/AIDS services for the hard to reach
         populations like IDPs, returnees, and some tribes , call for the redesign of the project,
         factoring in the consideration of the nomadic lifestyle, the pattern of population
         movement, settlement and the shifting influence of the weather conditions;
      d. Further expansion of the community component of PMTCT with mother to mother
         care groups and TBAs as frontiers for high impact PMTCT. PMTCT investments
         should be measured in terms of final outcome rather than number of positive mothers



                                                                                               44
     enrolled. This approach will pursue and monitor the specific outcome indicators of
     HIV negative babies born to HIV positive mothers;
e.   There is need for similar future project to support introducing of a reliable community
     information system including an information system for the network of PLHIV. This
     would formalize or institutionalize capturing of specific contributions from the
     community response or community-based efforts. This should be a collaborative
     effort between SSAC and MOH;
f.   The system should include: i) Defined catchment areas/units that specify
     demographic information per unit; ii) Registration of PLHIVs in high prevalence
     states for better monitoring of sustained impact of treatment care and support; iii)
     Documentation of benefits from referral systems;
g.   For effective monitoring and learning, it is recommended that SSAC considers
     formalizing structures for supervision and monitoring as well as introducing
     approaches for monitoring outcomes on a regular basis that would provide county
     specific data which is critical for facilitating improvements in programs and
     increasing efficiency;
h.   There is need for further strengthening of the technical and managerial capacities
     SACs and this should be done through provision of guidelines, mentorship programs,
     service aids, e-learning, teleconferencing/discussions, e-health, and back up by a
     technically competent M&E team at HQs;
i.   The design of the project was complex, with many components and many diverse
     types of target populations. Given the fact that the whole project started in the third
     year of the entire South Sudan MDTF, there was both time and resource limitations
     and therefore a logical concentration on component three; Civil Society Response;
j.   More HIV/AIDS are needed in all the states to increase uptake of services nearer to
     the people;
k.   Targeted HIV prevention activities that address the Youth and adolescents as they the
     most affected;
l.   Empowerment of women especially the young to delay the initiation of sex and/ be in
     position to negotiate for safer sex.




                                                                                         45
Annex 8: Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

As stated in Section 7 (b) of the main text, when provided the draft ICR for comments, DFID
raised no issues and expressed its agreement with the content of the document.




                                                                                              46
Annex 9: List of Supporting Documents

1.     South Sudan HIV Project – PAD – 2008
2.     Implementation Status Reports (2008-2012);
3.     Jha P. et al. The evidence base for interventions to prevent HIV infection in low and
middle-income countries. Commission on Macroeconomics and Health, Working Group 5 Paper
no.24;
4.     Project Aide Memoires (2007-2012);
5.     Over M. 2008. “Opportunities for Presidential Leadership on AIDS: From an
‘Emergency Plan’ to a Sustainable Policy.? In The White House and the World: A Global
Development Agenda for the Next U.S. President. Center for Global Development
6.     Multi-country AIDS Project, World Bank, Africa Region, 2006
7.     Nagelkerke, et al Heterogeneity in host HIV susceptibility as a potential contributor to
recent HIV prevalence declines in Africa. AIDS. 2009 Jan 2;23(1):125-30.
8.     Bertozzi et al, HIV/AIDS Prevention and Treatment, in Jamison D.T. et al, Disease
Control Priorities in Developing Countries, 2nd Edition, World Bank, Oxford University Press,
2006, Chapter 18.
9.     Chen et al, Consistency of sexual risk factors for HIV infection in early and advanced
HIV epidemics in sub-Saharan Africa: systematic overview of 68 epidemiological studies PLoS
One. 2007
10.    Client/Government ICR
11.    GoSS: The Sudan Household Health Survey (SHHS), 2010 and GoSS, Report of the
Community-based LQAS Survey Conducted in South Sudan, 2011
12.    GoSS. Sudan Household Health Survey (SHHS). 2006
13.    Talbott JR. 2007. Size Matters: The Number of Prostitutes and the Global HIV/AIDS
Pandemic. PLoS ONE 2(6): e543. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0000543
14.    Gelmon L. Southern Sudan: HIV Epidemic and Response Review Report issued in April
2011
15.    HIV/Alliance Report to SSAC on Final implementation status, Sept 2012.
16.    Hakim A et al. 2012 South Sudan HIV/AIDS Epidemiologic Profile, Integrated
Epidemiologic Profile for HIV/AIDS Prevention, Care and Treatment, and Strategic Information.
US CDC, March 2012
17.    UNAIDS Annual Report 2012, UNAIDS, www.unaids.gov
18.    Economic Analyses, page 40-41 of South Sudan Multi Donor Trust Fund, Final Project
19.    South Sudan Umbrella Program for Health System Development, PAD 2006
20.    UNICEF State of the World’s Children, 2008 (data are for 2006)




                                                                                            47
                                                                                                                  28˚E                                    30˚E                                                    32˚E       To                                        34˚E
              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                             Khartoum
              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
              shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
              Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
              endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                Renk

               0         50          100           150 Kilometers
                                                                                                                               SUDAN
                                                                                                                                                          To                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                        Kadugli                                                                                      Ed Damazin
               0                50                     100                 150 Miles

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SOUTH
                                                                                          To                   To
                                                                                                            Babanusa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SUDAN
                                                                                         Nyala

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Paloich
                                                                Arab
                                                       Bahr el '
             10˚N              To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10˚N
                              Nyala                                                                                                                                                                                                UPPER NILE
                                                                                                                               ABYEI                                                                                     Kodok

                                                                                                                                Abyei                                     l Ghazal
                                                                                                   NORTHERN                                                       Ba h r e                                    Malakal
                                                                                                    BAHR EL                                                Bentiu
                                                                                             Lol    GHAZAL

                                                                                                                                                    UNITY                                                                                                                       ETHIOPIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          So
                                                                                                                                 Jur




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ba
                                                                                                        Aweil                                                                                                                                     Nasser




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               t
                                                                                                                                                                                            f
                                                                                                                                                                                        ara
                                                                       Raga




                                                                                                                                                                               Bahr ez Z
                                       I                                                                                                      Meshra’
                                           r                       WESTERN                                                     Warrap                                                                                    Waat
                                               o
             8˚N                                   n            BAHR EL GHAZAL                                                                                                                   Ayod
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8˚N
                                                        s                                                                               WARRAP
                                                            t
                                                                o
                                                                      po




                                                                       o
                                                                    n S
                                                                                                            Wau
                                                                                                                                                 N u b i a n                                                                                    Akobo
                                                                      e                                                                                                                                                                                         Ak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JONGLEI                                         ob
                                                                                                                                        Ton




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   o
                                                                           P




                    CENTRAL
                                                                                              go
                                                                           l




                                                                                                                                                                                      Shambe
                                                                               a




                                                                                                                                                    LAKES
                                                                                           Pon




                    AFRICAN
                                                                               t
                                                                                   e




                                                                                                                                                        Rumbek
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Pibor
                                                                                   a




                    REPUBLIC




                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                       u




                                                                                                                Sue




                                                                                                                                                                                                hite
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bor




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ka
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Nil




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                       e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           en
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6˚N




              SOUTH SUDAN                                                                To
                                                                                       Djema
                                                                                                        Tambura
                                                                                                      Li Yubu                            WESTERN
                                                                                                                                                                                                           CENTRAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EASTERN
                                                                                                                                        EQUATORIA                                                       EQUATORIA                                     EQUATORIA
                         CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5˚N

                         STATE CAPITALS                                                                                                          Maridi                                                      JUBA                                               Kapoeta
                                                                                                                              Yambio
                         NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                          Torit
                                                                                                                                                                                                      t o n g
                         RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                 I m o                              M t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       s .
                                                                                                     D.R. OF CONGO                                                                                                                    Kinyeti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KENYA
                         MAIN ROADS                                                    4˚N                                                                                                                                                                                                             4˚N
                                                                                                                                                                              Yei                                                  (3187 m)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 38572R
                         RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Nimule
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To
MARCH 2013




                                                                                                                       To
                         STATE BOUNDARIES                                                                             Isiro                                                                                                     UGANDA                                                 Nakuru

                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                 28˚E                                     30˚E                                                    32˚E                                                  34˚E
