 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14855

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 12/17/2015

               Country: Pakistan
             Project ID: P076872                                                   Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Second Improvement           Project Costs (US$M):                        84                 96.2
                         To Financial
                         Reporting And
                         Auditing Proje
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                         84                 96.2
      Sector Board:      Public Sector               Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Governance
          Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                             09/06/2005
                                                               Closing Date:            06/30/2010      12/31/2014
         Sector(s):       Sub-national government administration (53%); Central government administration (45%);
                          Banking (2%)
         Theme(s):        Public expenditure; financial management and procurement (50%); Administrative and civil
                          service reform (25%); International financial standards and systems (25%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:           ICR Review                  Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Clay Wescott              Mauricio Carrizosa     Lourdes N. Pagaran          IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The project development objectives (PDOs) are stated as follows: "The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist
    the Borrower in continuing to build capacity to improve the accuracy, comprehensiveness, reliability, and
    timeliness of financial and fiscal reporting at all levels of government; (b) to directly support the Borrower’s
    commitment to improved public financial management, accountability, and transparency; (c) to enhance the
    capacity of public sector managers to use credible financial information for better and informed decision-making;
    and (d) to facilitate
    oversight of the use of public monies, and increase the national and international credibility of government’s
    financial statements and assurance processes." (Development Credit Agreement: Schedule 2, p. 18). There is an
    equivalent statement in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), p. 2.

    The Financing Agreement for Additional Financing (Schedule 1, p. 4)) states: "The objectives and components of
    the Project are identical to those set forth in Schedule 2 to the Original Financing Agreement, as amended."

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

    Component 1: Financial Accounting and Budgeting System (FABS, US$48.7 million at appraisal, US$19.4 million
    additional financing, actual US$64.2 million). Initial focus was on extending FABS to district accounts offices,
    central and provincial line ministries and departments, district government finance offices, pilots in smaller local
    governments, capacity building, system links with Central Board of Revenue and Planning Commission, and
    related activities. After additional financing, work expanded to ensuring core systems functionalities, improving
   data quality and transactions processing, better structuring capacity building, consolidation of fiscal reporting, and
   FABS support to Medium Term Budget Framework (MTBF) implementation.

   Component 2: Capacity building and upgrading of the Office of the Auditor General of Pakistan (US$19.3 million
   at appraisal, US$4.7 million additional financing, actual US$13.6 million). Initial focus was on audit management
   and development, information technology (IT) upgrading, Audit Management Information System (AMIS)
   implementation, and upgraded audit training. Additional financing added support to finalizing the quality
   management framework, adopting standards, providing training, and carrying out structural reform in audit
   planning, execution and reporting.

   Component 3: Capacity building and upgrading of the Offices of the Controller General of Accounts (OCGA)
   (US$18.5 million at appraisal, combined with Component 1 after 2011 restructuring, actual US$ 14.7 million).
   There was support in strengthening government financial management policy and capacity, and strengthening of
   facilities and systems to support the IT-based environment.

   Component 4 (3 after additional financing): Project Management (US$6.5 million at appraisal, US$0.4 million
   additional financing, actual US$ 3.7 million). The Initial framework comprised a Steering Committee and a Project
   Directorate. After additional financing, project management capacity was strengthened to more effectively
   perform monitoring and evaluation functions.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   The project was approved September 6, 2005 for SDR72.2 million (US$ 84 million equivalent), became effective
   November 8, 2005, and closed December 31, 2014. The project was restructured January 2011 to provide
   additional financing of US$24.5, and extended the closing date to June 30, 2013. The additional financing aimed
   to provide for operation and maintenance of the FABS, and consolidation of AMIS, to address issues constraining
   IT-based systems, and to build capacity to apply the systems to line agencies. The project development
   objectives (PDOs) were not revised; instead, new milestones were refined that were better aligned to the PDOs
   to enhance monitoring. A second restructuring in May 2013 extended the closing date by eighteen months, to
   December 31, 2014, to carry out a software upgrade for the FABS system. A third restructuring took place just
   before project closing in December 2014, and cancelled the unutilized amount of SDR 7.1 million (US$10.3
   million equivalent).

   The Government contribution was US$18.1 million (appraised and actual).

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   High

   The objectives are aligned with the Country Partnership Strategy 2010-2013, and its commitment to "Enhance
   Capacity and Accountability in Public Sector Management". It is also aligned with the Government's Second
   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper of 2009, and its pillar: "Governance for a Just and Fair System", with a focus,
   inter alia, on public financial management. The country's Poverty Reduction Strategy Program (PRSP) focuses
   on second generation reforms to accelerate growth while maintaining macroeconomic stability, including
   strengthening governance and furthering devolution. Country conditions were favorable, building on a fall in
   public debt in the years prior to approval, savings on interest expenditure, and improved revenue administration,
   all of which had expanded fiscal space. There was also a recognition of weak governance as a development
   challenge, and the project’s condition as a successor to the First Improvement to Financial Reporting And
   Auditing (PIFRA1) project.


b. Relevance of Design:

   Substantial

   The initial results framework includes a clear statement of objectives, with a credible causal chain between Bank
   funding, outputs, and intended outcomes. The refined indicators and enhanced targets added with additional
   financing are also clear and convincing, supporting systems upgrades and capacity building to ensure
   sustainability, and increased functionality of MTBF and other reform areas. The underlying hypothesis is credible
   that system and capacity upgrades will contribute to improved financial control, reporting and audit. However, the
   ICR points out a number of design shortcomings. The additional financing was a missed opportunity to better
   focus the PDO, with a better balance between fiscal management reform, financial accounting, auditing and
   controls. In addition, the change management design worked well for accounting and audit work, but was less
   effective for secondary users such as Public Accounts Committees. Likewise, there should have been more
   attention to how line ministries, planning bodies, and other budget holders would benefit from the new systems,
   and use information for decision making. There could have been more incentives built in for coalition building
   among institutions for joint ownership.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   This review will assess efficacy of achievement of four sub-objectives:

    (a) To assist the Borrower in continuing to build capacity to improve the accuracy , comprehensiveness,
   reliability, and timeliness of financial and fiscal reporting at all levels of government - Substantial

   The PDO of more accurate reconciliation of accounts and improved accounts and budget control measures were
   achieved, including reduced discrepancy from 1.2% of GDP to 0.5% of GDP, and reduction in unidentified
   expenditures to no more than 0.5% of total actual expenditures. The PDOs of improving comprehensiveness and
   effective corruption and inefficiency reducing measures were achieved, with 100% of payments made by check
   direct to vendors’ bank account’ (exceeding the target of 70%). There is 100% coverage for data entry to FABS,
   achieving the target, though for some projects and entities there are a few days delays in data entry. In addition,
   annual financial statements are largely compliant with International Public Sector Accounting Standards,
   achieving the target. The PDO of improving timeliness was achieved, with all departments given access to a
   Systems, Applications & Products in Data Processing (SAP) link to generate Budget Execution Reports (BERs),
   and increasing utilization as more PAOs are trained in using SAP. The PDO on improving reliability was
   achieved, with a quality control framework established since 2010-11, information system audit established, and
   intensive training carried out. However, commitment accounting is not being properly implemented, and the
   efforts to pilot proper implementation of commitment accounting in 4 ministries has not been successful so far.
   While there was a range of support from other development partners for these and achievements listed below,
   the team believes that all can be directly or indirectly attributed to the Bank’s support. For more details on
   achievement of this and the following sub-objectives, see ICR, Annex 10.

   (b) To directly support the Borrower’s commitment to improved public financial management , accountability,
   and transparency - Substantial

   The PDO of improved public financial management was achieved, meeting the targets of FABS implementation
   complete where the law and order situation allows it, Federal budgets meeting the target of being prepared under
   MTBF principles, supported by FABS, and extensive training carried out and management guidelines prepared.
   The MTBF configuration in SAP has been completed for MoF as a pilot. Subsequently, the MoF pilot will be
   replicated in all ministries. The PDO of improved accountability was achieved, with targets met on an audit quality
   control framework, revision of the audit manual, and training. The PDO of improved transparency was partially
   achieved in terms of bill tracking, with 48% of bills passed within 3 days, less than the target of 80%. The target of
   BERs available at every level of government was achieved.

   (c) To enhance the capacity of public sector managers to use credible financial information for better and
   informed decision-making - Modest

   The PDO of enhancing capacity was achieved. Targets of number of officers trained were exceeded, including
   1045 senior officers (target of 20), and 58 Chief Finance and Accounts Officers (target of 20) trained to use the
   system, and tens of thousands of District Development Officers trained on the new chart of accounts, with the
   training program evolving in light of experience. There are 6200 users of FABS; 64 positions for SAP
   Competency Center experts have been authorized, and 47 are actually working against these positions to
   maintain support of FABS operations (source: CGA comments on ICR). Targets on producing monthly budget
   execution reports and timely financial statements, and establishing Public Expenditure Tracking Systems, were
   all achieved. However, the system has reportedly had only a limited impact so far in terms of providing effective
   management tools for better and informed decision-making by ministries, departments and agencies.

   (d) To facilitate oversight of the use of public monies , and increase the national and international credibility of
   government’s financial statements and assurance processes - Substantial
    The PDO of facilitating oversight was achieved through improved audit, use of Integrated Financial Management
    Information System, and extensive training of audit staff, including training in Financial Audit Manual (4946), in
    computer assisted audit techniques (2559), for degrees/certification (197), in performance and forensic auditing
    (907) and Pakistan Audit and Accounts Services officers to replace the consultants (279 -- source: comments on
    ICR by OAGP). Participants were tested for certification exams, and an impact assessment in 2013 showed an
    average success rate of 72%. The PDO of improved national and international credibility was achieved through
    real time financial reporting through FABS on 17 donor projects, and improved in year and year end reporting of
    government spending. Audited financial statements have been prepared within the last 6 months of year end for
    the last five years (previously took 24-28 months), with two additional months spent for quality assurance and
    submission to the legislature.


5. Efficiency:

    Among the operational and administrative efficiencies achieved are (i) reduction of the audit cycle from end fiscal
    year to submission to legislature from 33 to eight months; (ii) US$1.63 billion recovered due to audit reforms
    since 2005; (iii) savings from no increase in number of government accountants and auditors during last decade,
    despite tripling of government expenditure and doubling of transactions; iv) reduction in payment processing
    times, elimination of unnecessary paperwork, and transition to digital signature in operations; and v) actual
    project management cost was lower than planned, notwithstanding the additional credit and extended project
    implementation period. Most of these savings are not quantified, but are presumed to be significant based on
    similar reforms in other countries.


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                                                                  %                                     %

    ICR estimate                                                               %                                     %
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

    There was high relevance of objectives, aligned with the CPSs both at the time of additional financing, and at
    completion, and with the country's PRSP. Relevance of design was substantial, with a sound results framework
    and theory of change. The design could have been better balanced among categories of reform, and more
    attention could have been given to deepening involvement of secondary users. Efficacy of achievement was
    substantial across three sub-objectives, with basic financial discipline brought to more than 500 government
    units, with improved reporting, timeliness, accountability and professionalism, although the improved systems
    have had only a limited impact so far in terms of providing effective management tools for ministries, departments
    and agencies. There were substantial efficiency gains, including significant recoveries from audit reforms and
    savings from streamlined administration.

a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    The risks related to the Office of the Auditor General of Pakistan (OAGP) and OCGA discharge of responsibility
    for recruitment, staff deployment and career development were anticipated at design, and continue to be key
    challenges. For example, while the government has so far filled 47 positions for SAP Competency Center
    consultants, it still also relies on SAP consultants currently provided by Siemens. The Bank team believes that
    once the Siemens contract is closed, the SAP Competency Center consultants will be able to effectively maintain
    the system, but this remains to be tested. Although the Disaster Recovery Center was not operational by the end
    of the project, the team reports that it is now functional.
  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The design built on achievements supported by PIFRA I, including separation of accounting and auditing, a
   new accounting manual and chart of accounts, initial work on an integrated financial management information
   system, and introduction of risk-based audit. The design deepened and expanded to different tiers of
   government the scope of these efforts, with parallel, well-coordinated support from the European
   Commission, Asian Development Bank, UK Department for International Development, and International
   Monetary Fund. It built on lessons learned during PIFRA I, including the importance of stakeholder
   participation and strong ownership, strong project management, and experienced management of large scale
   IT systems implementation. In addition, reforms were sequenced to front-load the neutral interventions that
   would encounter the least resistance, and to introduce more sensitive business process reforms progressively
   at a later stage. However, the PDOs were both complex and ambitious according to the ICR.

  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   Supervision has been well managed, despite a succession of many TTLs. According to the team, there was
   good coordination within the PFM development partner’s group led by the Bank, which met every month. A
   Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio carried out in 2008 found close oversight and supervision in real time
   up to that point, close interaction between the Bank team and client in monitoring, and effective procurement
   oversight. Implementation Status & Results Reports gave realistic ratings, and the Bank team was proactive
   in promoting solutions to identified challenges, including support in refining indicator target values. However,
   the complex PDO could have been addressed during additional financing, which was a missed opportunity
   according to the ICR.


  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The project was mainly driven by OCGS, but based in Office of the Auditor General of Pakistan (OAG)P
   which lacked ownership to objectives not under its direct control. Project management may have worked
   better if Government had appointed a unit of MOF such as OCGA to lead the implementation, rather than
   OAG. This might have facilitated links and buy-in with other MoF units, including planning and budgeting.
   There was delay in releasing counterpart funding which affected the payment of salaries for counterpart staff,
   meaning that several expenses had to be covered by IDA funds instead. The Government provided extensive
   and useful comments on the ICR.


  Government Performance Rating                                Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   Implementation to June 2011 was under OAGP. After July 2011, it was split into two parts: one led by a
   Steering Committee on FABS chaired by the Secretary of Finance, and the other led by a Steering Committee
   on Audit headed by the Auditor General. While having lead responsibility for overall project management in
   the first phase, OAGP also introduced risk-based auditing, a quality assurance framework, regular
   performance and information system audits, and training of thousands of officers and staff. OAGP made
   every effort to retain experts for the duration of the project, but there was high turnover of staff, for example
   with nine project directors. Technical capacity constraints at OAGP delayed the AMIS procurement, although
    OAGP has followed the carefully sequenced approach needed for such a complex procurement, and the
    agreed timetable may have been overambitious. There was lack of full compliance with safeguards.

  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The indicators were appropriate, measurable, and reflect project outcomes. For example, PDO indicator 1,
   effective and transparent fiscal administration, measures improvements in a multi-year perspective in budgeting.
   Such an approach contributes to transparency, and enables sustainability of fiscal policies and planning policy
   changes. If the processes are well disciplined, a multi-year approach also supports operational performance, by
   enabling greater predictability of funding for managers. This indicator’s target value, like many others, was
   refined at the time of additional financing in 2011. It had an original target value: Federal budgets prepared under
   MTBF principles; at restructuring, the following was added: FABS supports MTBF. Both aspects were assessed
   by the ICR for this and all other indicators where the target values were refined.


b. M&E Implementation:

   Data were collected by OAGP from monthly progress reports from provincial sub-directorates and implementing
   agencies. They were reported quarterly to the Steering Committee and the World Bank, and comprehensively
   reported in ISRs. In addition, there were qualitative surveys and field visits carried out to identify implementation
   issues.


c. M&E Utilization:

   Monitoring data, surveys and field visits helped to address implementation issues. Work processes had
   necessary flexibility so that changes could be made, such as reprioritization of work in provinces that were in
   more advanced stages of readiness.


M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project's initial classification as category C was changed to category B due to the unforeseen need for
   construction. An environmental management plan was prepared, but complete compliance was never achieved,
   in part due to lack of appropriate provisions in the contracts of both the supervision engineers and contractors,
   since work had begun before the plan had been prepared.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   The project complied with fiduciary covenants, and there was good financial management and procurement
   oversight in carrying out complex IT and other procurement. Advance procurement actions and early preparation
   of asset management processes could have helped to save time and effort. Towards the end of the project
   financial management performance was downgraded to Moderately Unsatisfactory because of delays in filling
   vacant positions, outstanding expenditure reports. Delay and unpredictability of counterpart funds were problems
   starting in FY2010.
c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
None

d. Other:
None


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review              Reason for
                                                                                  Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Exemplary

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    Lessons in the ICR are all supported, including the importance of proper balance between resource
    management, accounting and auditing reforms, MoF leadership, change management, links between PFM
    reforms and improvements in service delivery, and development of competitive career paths for essential
    technical staff.

    PFM improvements can only come as the result of a long-term effort. In the Pakistan case, there has been 22
    years of continuous support, and indications that more will still be required.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR shows how PIFRA II built on the achievements of PIFRA I, how additional financing builds on
    PIFRA II, and how important a long term perspective is to achieve important reforms. It provides considerable
    analysis of achievements in improved accounting and auditing, and ratings are well evidenced. The ICR abstract
    is a helpful innovation, making clear things that are hard to explain within the conventional ICR structure. The
    unpacking of the four objectives into 10 sub-objectives is helpful for understanding the different strands of a
    complex operation. For example, training achievement is not just presented as number of officers trained, but
    with success rates on certification exams. The ICR provides important findings on the institutional context, and
    has useful lessons for future support. IEG found minor editorial issues (eg. lack of a Table 2).

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Exemplary
