nacuamt of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4159-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt127.0 MILLION
TO MALAYSIA
FOR A
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
(EIGHTH EDUCATION LOAN)
April 10, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   Ringgit tM$)
Average 1985                      October 1985
US$1.00   =  M$2.48             US$1.00   =   K$2.46
M$1.O0    =  US$0.40            M$1.00    =   US$0.40
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
DC        -    Development Committee
DEO       -    District Education Office
DSD       -    Development and Supplies Division
EPC       -    Education Planning Committee
EPRD      -    Educational Planning and Research Division
IDB       -    Islamic Development Bank
LNG       -    Liquefied Natural Gas
;LT       -    Medium and Long term
MOE       -    Ministry of Education
NIEM      -    National Institute of Educational Management
NPSC      -    New Primary School Curriculum
SED       -    State Education Department
TTC       -    Teacher Training College
.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
(EIGHTH EDUCATION LOAN)
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      Malaysia
Amount:        US$127.0 million equivalent
Terms:         Repayable in 15 years, including three years of grace, at the
standard variable rate
Project
Description: The main objective of the project would be to assist the
Government in accelerating the implementation of policy reforms
and institutional changes aimed at improving the quality of
education and the efficiency of educational management as well
as at increasing access to better education.
In support of this objective, the project would help finance
the first five-year phase of a ten-year program to develop and
improve the primary and secondary education subsector under the
Fifth Malaysia Plan (1986-1990), including: (a) the provision
of 4,000 student places to replace the most inadequate teacher
training facilities; (b) the provision of about 3,300 primary
and secondary classrooms, and related boarding and staff
housing facilities in the most disadvantaged and overcrowded
school districts; (c) an increase in educational resources
through the provision of about eight million school library
books, and equipment for 5,400 rural schools and 350 district
resource centers; Cd) a staff development program for about 500
key education officers, including fellowships abroad and local
training, and (e) studies on quality, cost-efficiency and
equity in education.
Risks:         Constraints on resources might slow down the implementation of
the proposed project and the number of additional staff needed
to implement the new activity-oriented curricula would result
in a substantial increase in recurrent costs. However, the
project schools could be adequately staffed according to a more
modest teacher:class ratio than currently envisaged by the
Government, thus reducing the fiscal burden. No problem is
anticipated with regard to the staffing of the schools, which
is well within the t-raining capacity of teacher training
colleges and universities.
This document has a resrcted dstibution and may be used by ripients only in the perfonmance of
Itheir offic dutie Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authoriza:on.



Estimated Cost.Ia
Local     Foeign      Total
----- US$ Mln-              -
National Level Programs
Teacher training                24.8        16.8       41.6
Educational resources           14.5        20.4       34.9
Staff development                0.9         4.9        5.8
Studies                          0.5         0.1        0.6
Subtotal                      40.7       42.2        82.9
State Level Programs
Primary education               55.5        29.8       85.3
Secondary education             63.4        33.5       96.9
Subtotal                     118.9        63.3      182.2
Baseline Cost                    159.6       105.5      265.1
Contingencies
Physical                        15.9        10.2       26.1
Price                           10.3        11.3       21.6
Subtotal                      26.2       21.5        47.7
Total Cost                   185.8       127.0      312.8
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign     Total
-- US$ Min
Government                       185.8          -       185.8
Bank                                -        127.0      127.0
Total                          185.8       127.0      312.8
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY               1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
--- USS million
Annual                 5.0   16.5   32.9   38.3   34.3
Cumulative             5.0   21.5   54.4   92.7  127.0
Rate of Return:           N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5886-MA, dated April 1, 1986
Maps: Nos. A19300R, A19305R, A19310R, A19315R.
la Including taxes and duties estimated at US$5.0 million equivalent.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA FOR A PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
(EIGHTH EDUCATION LOAN)
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Malaysia, for the equivalent of US$127 million, to help finance a Primary
and Secondary Education Sector Project. The loan would have a term of 15
years, including three years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report, "Malaysia:  Development Strategies and
their Financing" (No. 5560-MA), is dated September 3, 1985. This section
reflects also the findings of a Bank mission which visited Malaysia in July
1985 for a general economic review with particular emphasis on agriculture and
industry.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia's economic performance was
outstanding in the 1970s. The per capita income of US$1,990 in 1984 is among
the highest in Southeast Asia. In the last decade, per capita GDP growth has
averaged about 5.5Z p.a., somewhat higher than the 4X p.a. per capita growth
achieved in the 1960s. This sustained good performance was a reflection of
several factors, including the country's weaLth in natural resources, especi-
ally ample reserves of cultivable land and oil and gas; an outward-oriented
growth strategy; favorable developments in the world economy; good economic
and financiaL management; and, not least, stable social and political institu-
tions. Three specific elements have been important: first, substantial
attention and priority has been given to agriculture, resulting in high pro-
ductivity gains in the sector which have cushioned it against occasional steep
price declines; second, manufacturing growth has been rapid, at about 12% per
annum, in the last two decades, following first an import substituting
pattern, but later increasingly oriented towards exports; third, in a very
open economy, with exports and imports recently averaging more than 50% of
GDP, exports have diversified from an initial large dependence on rubber and
tin to include palm oil, petroleum and manufactured goods.
4.        Malaysia is a multiracial society with approximately 552 of the
population indigenous Malays, 35Z Chinese, and the remainder largely Indian.
The country inherited deep divisions in the distribution of income between
ethnic communities. The incidence of poverty covered aLl ethnic groups, but
was disproportionately high among Malays; their average per capita incomes
were only half those of the Chinese community. In 1971, the Government
declared a New Economic Policy (NEP), and accorded the highest priority to
eradicating poverty and reducing the racial imbalances in income, employment,
and ownership of assets. By 1983, some progress had been made in reducing the
number of households living below the poverty line, particularly in rural
areas. In addition, there has been substantial progress towards reducing
inter-racial disparities in income and asset ownership.



-2-
5.        The Malaysian economy has been undergoing some important structural
changes. Industry has joined agriculture as the major contributor to GDP and
exporting manufactured goods has replaced import substitution as the cutting
edge of industrial growth. In particular, there has been a remarkable and
dominating increase in exports of electronic goods over the last 15 years.
Export diversification (particularly through palm oil, petroleum, and more
recently LNG) has proved important, as some of Malaysia's traditional major
foreign exchange earners show signs of flagging vitality. Tin production
steadily declined in the face of weak prices, the exhaustion of many mines,
and increasing costs of extraction, and was severely disrupted recently by the
suspension of international tin trading. Although timber production has
recently been buoyant, exploitation of the resource has led to detrimental
environmental consequences, and the Government has restricted logging in
Peninsular Malaysia. Finally, rubber production has been fluctuating across a
declining trend for several years. While factors specific to the cultivation
of rubber have been at work, an important reason has been the migration of the
young and educated from the farms to the towns. This has fostered a major
structural change in the Malaysian economy, as it appears that the agricul-
tural labor force may now be peaking in absolute numbers. In turn, this
suggests rather different strategies to be followed in the agricultural sector
in years to come, both to maintain agricultural production as well as to
tackle the large extant problem of rural poverty. In the tree crops sector,
for example, production growth is being pursued through productivity and
efficiency gains rather than increased acreage. As for food crops, further
growth in rice production may well prove to be uneconomic and entail consider-
ably higher subsidies than the rice sector already receives. It is therefore
appropriate that the Government has moved gradually away from its previously
proclaimed goal of rice self-sufficiency and is emphasizing greater crop
diversification.
6.        While, in general, the economy has performed well in the last few
years, this progress has been punctuated by periods of occasional diffi-
culty. This has been particularly true in the most recent international com-
modity price cycle. Between 1977 and 1980, prices for palm oil, rubber,
timber, and petroleum increased rapidly, and export receipts nearly doubled.
The terms of trade improved by about 13% in the same period, and real national
income grew by more than 11% p.a. In 1980, however, the prices of virtually
all of Malaysia's export commodities began to fall and, over the next two
years, the terms of trade declined by more than 8%, representing a loss of
national income of about 5Z. Anticipating, in 1980, a short international
recession, the Government introduced a countercyclical fiscal policy, compris-
ing large expenditure increases and tax cuts, in an attempt to maintain domes-
tic income levels. This combination of falling commodity prices and an expan-
sionary fiscal stance led, in 1981 and 1982, to very large fiscal and balance
of payments deficits; thus, in 1981-82, the current account deficit on the
balance of payments averaged 12% of GNP, while the overall public sector
deficit averaged 18% of GNP. OveraLl, GDP growth averaged 6% p.a., and infla-
tion initially accelerated before falling to 6Z in 1982.
7.        To finance these large deficits, the Government had to borrow
heavily, both domestically and abroad. Domestic borrowings were largely non-
inflationary, from the Employees Provident Fund, the national oil company and



-3-
the commercial banks. Even so, the ratio of domestic debt to GNP grew from
about 37X to nearly 48% between 1980 and 1982. Increasing proportions of the
deficits had to be financed from abroad, and the level of disbursed public
external debt almost doubled between 1980 and 1982 (from 16X to 32Z of GNP);
there was, in addition, an important shift in the sources of borrowing, away
from project financing towards market borrowings. Because of the low Levels
of external borrowing in the previous decade, this surge in the 1980-82 period
has not given rise to a high burden of debt service. As a proportion of
exports, debt service on private, public and publicly-guaranteed MLT debt was
11.9% at the end of 1984.
8.        The unsustainability of deficits of the magnitude experienced in
1981 and 1982 has clearly been recognized by the Government, and a policy of
expenditure restraint was implemented through 1983-85 and affirmed in the 1986
budget. The overall public sector deficit halved from almost 24% of GNP in
1982 to below 12% in 1984. Both the Government and public enterprises
registered equally sharp adjustments. In 1983 and 1984, government develop-
ment expenditures declined by 10Z and 20%, respectively, and the government
budgetary deficit fell from 16.5% of GN-P to 8.3%. The reduction in the
deficit of public enterprises, on the other hand, came about from substantial
increases in internal savings which more than absorbed a continued expansion
in development expenditures. To some extent, the impact on the external
account of the shrinking public sector def;cit was offset by priv¶ie invest-
ment expenditures which rose by 17Z in real terms during 1983-84.-
Nonetheless, the balance of payments current account deficit improved
considerably from 14% of CNP in 1982 to 6% in 1984.
9.        In 1985, Malaysia's economic performance fell below expectations.
Declining international commodity prices and reductions in exports of manufac-
tures contributed to GDP growth rate below 3% (down from 7.6% the previous
year) and a widening of the external current account gap to about 7.0Z of
GNP. The impact of lower exports on domestic economic activity and the conse-
quent closure or cutbacks in the manufacturing, mining and construction
sectors added substantially to the numbers of unemployed. In response, the
Government has introduced modest reflationary measures including a major new
low-cost housing scheme to be implemented over the next three years.
10.       Despite the recent reduction in oil prices, Malaysia could continue
to reduce its external and internal imbalance over the medium term, provided
the Government exercises restraint in public expenditures and promotes
exports, particularly of manufactures. With relatively heavy external
borrowing undertaken in recent years, and with continued, albeit declining,
external deficits till the turn of the decade, the debt-service ratio is
expected to rise initially and then stabilize at about 20%. The possible
I/   This was largely the consequence of higher outlays by quasi-public
agencies currently misclassified under the national accounts as part of
the private sector. According to the Government's classification, major
off-budget agencies like PETRONAS (the petroleum company) and HICOH (the
heavy industry corporation) are not included in the public sector.



-4-
impact of public investment cutbacks on growth prospects underscores the
critical importance of ensuring greater efficiency in the public investment
program. in addition, new growth sources will need to replace those that
propelled the economy forward in the 1970s. International price prospects for
rubber, palm oil, petroleum and tin suggest that commodities production will
be of less importance to Malaysian economic growth than in the past. Even in
the manufacturing sector, Malaysia faces stiff competition from its populous
neighbors in international markets for labor-intensive products such as
textiles and electronics assembly.
11.       The Fifth Five Year Plan, which was recently introduced, includes a
strong emphasis on resource-based industrialization, the bulk of which would
need to be financed by the private sector. In preparing the ground for
encouraging greater private sector investment, the Government liberalized
partially the investment licensing laws and continued with its policy initia-
tive of privatizing some sectors of the eccoomy. A cogent, comprehensive and
well-coordinated industrial and trade stracegy will be central to Malaysia's
economic future and its ability both to compete internationally and transcend
sudden shocks inflicted by changes in the world economic environment.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA 21
12.       The Bank has, to date, made 66 loans to Malaysia, totalling
US$1,765.68 million for projects in agriculture, education, population, power,
water supply, sewerage, telecommunications, ports, railways, roads, and urban
transport. As of September 30, 1985, the effective loans to Malaysia held by
the Bank amounted to US$1,289.50 million. A total of 43 loans to Malaysia,
have been fully disbursed.  Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans and IFC
investments.
13.       In recent years, the Bank's lending strategy towards Malaysia has
aimed at assisting the Government to alleviate poverty in the country. The
Government's thrust in this area has been two-fold: first, to maintain a high
overall rate of growth for the economy and thus facilitate and encourage a
labor shift from low to higher wage occupations; second, to raise the produc-
tivity and incomes of farmers directly through a variety of agricultural
projects and programs, as most poverty is concentrated in the rural areas. The
Bank has been associated with both aspects of this strategy - by assisting the
Government to overcome impediments to growth (for example, by lending for
vocational education and for power) and also by lending for a long sequence of
agricultural projects. These have indeed enjoyed major success in raising the
incomes of beneficiaries, substantially increasing the foreign exchange earn-
ings of the country, and contributing to a high economy-wide growth.
2/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Johor Water Supply Project (Report No. P-4077-MA, dated February 5,
1986) approved by the Board of Executive Directors on February 25, 1986.



-5-
14.       Malaysia's commitment to assist its low-income groups has not
diminished in the wake of the recent economic difficulties. As noted, these
difficulties are in part structural, fostered by very rapid and successful
development, and in part financial, resulting from the recession and internal
countercyclical policies. Tackling these problems, which entail tight fiscal
and foreign exchange constraints likely to persist for some time, has become
the dominant objective of economic management.
15.       In its lending strategy, the Bank intends to continue lending to
agriculture and thus tackle poverty directly. At the same time, recognizing
the changed economic situation and prospects, and responding to a government
request, the Bank is also assisting in sectors where serious structural
problems or institutional deficiencies exist. Thus, the Bank plans to lend to
such sectors as education, transport, power, water supply, and industry, and
thus to make a more diversified as well as substantial contribution to
alleviating Malaysia's balance of payments and fiscal constraints over the
medium term.
16.       Although overaLl implementation of Bank-financed projects in
Malaysia has been satisfactory, it has recently been seriously affected by the
country's budgetary constraints. This has also been reflected in project dis-
bursements, which dropped from US$111 million in FY82 and US$137 million in
FY83 to US$87 million in FY84 and to $100 million in FY85. Disbursement per-
formance, measured in terms of the rates of actual disbursements to cumulative
undisbursed amounts, was 0.19 in FY82, 0.22 in FY83, 0.14 in FY84, and 0.17 in
FY85 (compared to regional averages of 0.19, 0.20, 0.21 and 0.22, respec-
tively, in the same years).
17.       Apart from lack of counterpart funding. the major problems causing
disbursement delays in Malaysia have been: delays in project start-up due to
manpower shortages, time-consuming land acquisition procedures, and slow con-
struction. To improve the situation, the Bank has held various project imple-
mentation reviews with the central and implementing agencies in Kuala Lumpur.
These reviews and the corrective action taken by the agencies subsequently are
having a positive impact on project implementation and disbursements. Further
reviews will be undertaken with the Malaysian authorities when necessary. The
implementacion reviews are reinforced with occasional seminars on disburse-
ments and procurement for the benefit of the implementing agencies. A
procurement seminar was arranged in March 1983 and the last disbursement
seminar took place in September 1985, both in Kuala Lumpur.
18.       IFC has made six investments in Malaysia totalling US$21.19 mil-
lion. The total investments held by IFC, as of September 30, 1985, amounted
to US$12.50 million (Annex II).
19.       At end-1984, Malaysia's debt service ratio on public and publicly
guaranteed debt was about 8Z. In the same year, debt service on Bank obliga-
tions constituted about 8% of total debt service. With the rapid increase in
market borrowings in the last three years, the proportion of Bank disbursed
debt in total disbursed eebt has fallen from about 15% in 1979-80 to less than
5% at end-1984. Various projections, on a variety of assumptions, suggest
that the Bank share in debt service and total disbursed debt of Malaysia is
likely to remain well beLow 10% through the rest of the decade.



-6-
PART III - PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION
Overview
20.       General.  Since independence in 1957, the Government's effort to
develop the education system has been an integral part of a wider national
policy. The Government has regarded education as a key factor to promote
national identity and integration, socio-economic development and employ-
ment. Education is also considered a major instrument to achieve the goals of
the New Economic Policy which aims to eradicate poverty and reduce racial
imbalance in economic functions. The establishbient of a federal Ministry of
Education (MOE) and a unified education system,-' the introduction of a common
curriculum and Bahasa Malaysia (the standardized Malay language) at all levels
of the education system, and the inculcation of national values have helped to
integrate the Malay, Chinese and Indian ethnic communities, while preserving
their specific cultural values through the use of their own language of
instruction in primary education.
21.       Enrollment Expansion.  The Government has concentrated its effort on
providing as many children as possible with access to at least nine years of
basic education. Free primary education and automatic promotion from Grade 1
to Grade 9 have resulted in a significant expansion of education and, in 1984,
primary education was virtually universal with 97% of the 6-11 year-olds
(about 2,150,000 students) enrolled in 6,600 schools. Lower and upper
secondary' enrollments represented 88% and 49% of their respective age groups
with about 900,000 and 325,000 students enrolled in 1,145 schools, resulting
in a global secondary enrollment ratio of 72%, one of the highest in the
region and in the developing world. There were about 75,000 students enrolled
in post-secondary schools and colleges and 51,000 students in locaL public
higher education, i.e. 11% and 4% of the relevant age groups. An additional
65,000 students were enrolled in local private and overseas post-secondary
institutions and universities.
22.       Female Participation.  The participation of girls in education is
high with 49X of enrollments in primary and secondary, 52% in post-secondary,
30% in vocational/technical, and 38% in higher education.
23.       Teacher Training.  The teacher training system provides a diversi-
fied and flexible range of programs. Primary, lower secondary and vocational
teachers are trained in 27 Teacher Training Colleges (TTC), and upper second-
ary teachers in five universities. In addition, in-service courses are provi-
ded through various full-time and part-time programs. In 1984, abouL d5Z of
primary and secondary teachers had been certified through these programs.
3/   The education system comprises six years of primary education, three
years of lower secondary and two years of upper secondary education,
followed by two years of pre-university courses, or two to three years of
post-secondary vocational or teacher training, and three to six years of
higher education.



7
24.       Educational Finance.  These improvements in educational quality and
opportunities have resulted in a relatively high share of GNP spent on educa-
tion. In 1984, this share was 6.1%, as compared with 2.1% in Indonesia, 2.8%
in the Philippines and 3.4% in Thailand, but was exceeded by Korea (7.7%).
Higher expenditures are due both to the wide coverage of the education system
and to rather high student unit costs resulting from competitive teachers'
salaries and modest student:teacher ratios (25:1 in primary and 22:1 in
secondary educat.on). The cost of education is borne mainly by the Federal
Government. Only an estimated 5Z, incLuding fees, is met from private contri-
butions. Private schools enroll a negligible proportion of primary students
and only 6Z of secondary students. Over the period 1971-84, MOE's rather high
share of development expenditures (around 6.5%) was due to the Government's
policy to increase educational opportunities even in the most remote areas.
The share of recurrent expenditures declined from 24.1% to 16.7% (as compared
with 20.3% in Thailand and 20.8% in Korea) as a result of the relatively
faster growth of other sectors. In 1985, budgetary estimates included
US$290.0 million equivalent for investment in education and US$1,510.0 million
equivalent for recurrent expenditure on education, representing 9.5% and 17.5%
of total government development and recurrent budgets, respectively. The
distribution of recurrent expenditures over the three major levels of educa-
tion is about 392, 43%, and 18% for primary, secondary and higher education,
respectively. With regard to capital investment, the Government has gradually
increased emphasis on vocational/technical and higher education during the
Fourth Malaysia Plan in order to meet the growing demand in these subsectors
resulting from the de.! lopment of the country's economy and the steady expan-
sion of primary and general secondary education. This trend is confirmed by
the Fifth Malaysia Plan which allocates about 45% of its investment in educa-
tion and training to higher education and 16% to technical education and
vocational training, while primary and general secondary education development
is maintained with 39Z of the funds.
25.       External Assistance for Education.  Malaysia receives external aid
for education in the form of technical assistance and investment programs. In
1983, technical assistance for education amounted to US$5.1 million, most from
bilateral sources (US$3.9 million), with the United Kingdom contributing 65%
and AustraLia, 24%. As for capital investment, the ongoing programs, which
concentrate on skill training, come from ADB, IDB and IBRD with loans totaling
US$180.2 million (of which US$113.9 million under Loans 2145-MA and 2601-MA)
and a grant of US$8 million from the Japanese International Cooperation
Agency.
26.       Educational Kanagement.  Educational administration in Malaysia is
highly centralized with a four-tiered line of authority including federal,
state, district and schooL levels. Decisions are made through a committee
system with the Education Planning Committee (EPC), chaired by the Minister,
being the supreme educational policy-making and planning body. The secre-
tariat of EPC is the MOE Education Planning and Research Division (EPRD) which
is the main link with the Economic Planning Unit of the Prime Minister's
Department. Downstream, a State Education Department (SED) is responsible for
the implementation of the government educational policy in each of the 13
states of the Federation, while providing the MOE with feedback on the issues
specific to each state. District and Division Education Offices (DEOs), under



-8-
the direct authority of SEDs, bring decentralized management and quality-
control closer to grassroots, as is needed by the rapid expansion of the
education system.
27.       Educational Development and Support Services.  MOE provides the
education system with a diversified educational development and support net-
work, including the Federal Inspectorate, the Curriculum Development Center,
the Examinations Syndicate, the Textbooks Bureau, the School Library Unit of
the MOE Schools Division and the Education Media Service. All these MOE
bodies are adequately staffed, highly dedicated and efficient. They have
their own specialized monitoring and evaluation services, and operate in close
collaboration with state and district authorities. In addition, there are
four state resource centers in Peninsular Malaysia (established under the
Fourth Education Project, Loan 1329-MA), 15 division resource centers in Sabah
and Sarawak, and 117 district resource centers which provide referral support
in educational technology and staff upgrading in their own facilities. About
230 complementary district centers are established in selected central schools
and serve 15 to 20 satellite schools each.
Major Issues in the Sector
28.       Despite the above achievements, there are several problems affecting
the quality of education, the efficiency of educational management, and access
to quality education at both primary and secondary levels.
29.       Quality of Education.  The Government is concerned over the quality
and relevance of education in view of: many primary students' inability to
read and write properly after six years of primary education; the high percen-
tage of primary crudents in need of remedial instruction; and the substantial
differences in students' achievements, with students from predominantly poor
rural districts generally performing more poorly. Studies have identified two
main sources of problems with the quality of education: (a) unsuitable
curricula and teaching practices, and (b) the shortage of educational
resources and adequate facilities.
(a) Curricula. Until 1983, curricula focused on acquisition of overly
academic knowledge, often unrelated to the local environment, with
insufficient emphasis placed on basic skills.
(b) Teacher Training. Until recently, teachers generaLly tended to
adopt formal teaching methods, with insufficient attention being
paid to interaction in the classroom, and to students' aptitudes and
motivations. Until 1982, most primary teacher trainees were
admitted to training programs in TTCs without passing mandatory
tests in some major subjects. In addition, training programs did
not include sufficient practice. In secondary education, while most
teachers are professionally qualified, Less chan a quarter of them
are university graduates and only about 52 of lower secondary
teachers, in particular, are degree holders. Over one-third of TTC
teacher trainers (600 out of 1,600) are nongraduates and have no
poscsecondary quaLifications. This qualification deficiency among
teachers and teacher trainers detrimentally affects the academic
standards ot secondary education and teacher training.



-9-
(c) Educational Resources. There is still a shortage of educational
resources. There is on average only one library room for three
primary schools and most school libraries are not properly equipped
and accommodated.  Moreover, the 5,400 rural primary schools in
particular are poorly equipped to teach the new curriculum and to
benefit from the educational media programs, and district resource
centers are aLso too poorly equipped to provide these schools with
the required educational support.
(d) Facilities. The rapid expansion of education has been achieved
through the intensive utilization of schools and teacher training
facilities.  With regard to schools, there is still a serious short-
age of adequate facilities, resulting in a large number of oversized
classes and double shifting. About 30% of primary and over 20% of
secondary classes enroll over 40 students. More than half of
primary classes and 80% of secondary classes are schooLed in double
shifts, substantially reducing instruction time, precluding extra-
curricular activities, which are an integral part of the new curri-
cula, and generating commuting hardships and hazards for students
living far from school. In addition, eight of the TTCs do not
proride adequate facilities, as they were not originally designed
for teacher training.
30.       Efficiency of Educational Management.  The management of the
education system is affected by staff constraints and insufficient monitoring
and evaluation capacity.
(a) Staff Constraints. The rapid growth of the school population,
combined with the increased scarcity of resources, is presenting new
problems for planning and administration of the education sector.
As a consequence, in MOE divisions, the staff's practical qualifi-
cations need to be upgraded; similarly, a number of newly appointed
state and district education officers still lack relevant exposure
and training. At the school level, only one fourth of headmasters
(about 2,000) have attended the basic training course to improve
their managerial and leadership skills, provided by the National
Institute of Educational Management (NIEM), established in 1979 and
provided with adequate facilities in 1983 under Loan 1657-MA.
(b)  Monitoring and Evaluation.  Although MOE and the universities carry
out valuable monitoring and evaluation activities, these activities
are insufficiently coordinated and systematic. The major fields of
investigation affected are the relationship between teachers' attri-
butes and effectiveness; utilization of facilities, progress in the
distribution of new facilities and resources; improvement in the
quality and efficiency of education; national integration through
education; evaluation of examinations and resources; and technical/
vocational education graduates' career development.



- 10 -
31.       Access to Quality Education.  Access to quality education is influ-
enced by imbalances in the distribution of adequate academic facilities and
insufficient provision of student and staff accommodation.
(a) Distribution of Academic Facilities. The average classroom:student
ratios are 1:46 and 1:61 in primary and secondary schools, respec-
tively. Low as these national averages may be, particuLarly in
secondary education, they conceal wide variations: in about half of
the 123 districts, the ratio at the secondary level is below the
national average and, in many instances, reaches critical levels
beyond 1:100, which compounds the double shifting problem. The
situation is similar for primary education in 44 districts.
(b) Student and Staff Accommodation. In 1984, while a negligible 2% of
primary students (46,000) were boarders (mainly in Sarawak), 124,000
secondary students (10% of secondary enrollments) were accommodated
at school. Although the cost of boarding is high, boarding is
required to provide universal primary education, to enroll in
secondary education able but poor students who otherwise couLd not
have access, and to recruit teacher trainees on a national basis.
Housing is provided to only about 10.000 out of 86,000 primary
teachers, most of whom serve in the 5,400 rural schools. Although
providing all rural teachers with decent accommodation would tax the
investment budget, staff accommodation is required in the most
remote areas to improve teachers' commitment and efficiency.
Government Objectives and Strategy
32.       To alleviate the above problems, the objectives of the Government's
policy are to improve the quality of education and subsequently students'
achievements, increase managerial efficiency at all levels of educational
administration, and increase access to improved education equitably throughout
the country.
33.       Quality of Education.  The Government is planning to address current
qualitative issues by improving curricula, teacher training, educational
resources and facilities. A New Primary School Curriculum (NPSC) was
introduced in 1983 and will cover the whole primary course in 1988. The NPSC
emphasizes the mastery for reading, writing and arithmetic, subject integra-
tion, ability group learning, and the acquisition of knowledge and basic
skills through attractive and meaningful activities, relevant and useful to
the students. A New Secondary School Curriculum, to follow upon the NPSC
lines, will be introduced in 1988. Primary and secondary teacher training
programs are being reoriented to the new educational requirements. Emphasis
is placed on languages and mathematics, practical teaching methods, and
teachers' resourcefulness and creativity. The teacher:class ratio is being
gradually raised to 1.5:1. Class size will be gradually reduced to a maximum
of 45 in a first phase and to 40 eventually, and also double shifting will be
reduced whenever it critically affects the delivery of curricula and students'
learning process, particularly in secondary education. The academic
qualifications of secondary teachers are being upgraded through the
recruitment of more university graduate teachers. It is also intended that



all schools will be staffed with teachers with special functions, to take care
of students' needs outside academic teaching, and all teacher trainers will be
university degree or post-secondary specialized diploma holders by 1995. As
the nev curricula require the availability of teaching/learning materials, the
Goveriment's policy is to provide all schools with resource facilities by
1995, including a library, audiovisual equipment and media facilities.
District resource centers will also be equipped. With regard to TTCs, the
Government plans to increase their output from about 6,000 to 10,000 new
teachers annually in order to cope with the demand for teachers, which will
peak in the late 1980s. To reach this goal and improve the quality of
training, the Government plans to replace the eight inadequate TTCs and expand
a number of existing colleges, while extending their daily operation time.
34.       Efficiency of Educational Management.  To address managerial issues,
the Government has initiated a comprehensive staff development program; cost
efficiency-oriented actions; and better coordination of monitoring and evalua-
tion activities. So far, 5,000 education officers and headmasters have been
trained at NIEM. The Government plans to expand this into a comprehensive
program to improve the quality of educational development, management and
evaluation in MOE divisions, SEDs and DEOs, resource centers, and schooLs.
The key staff development program during the 1986-95 period will include an
estimated 2,000 participants. A priority list of about 140 fellowships abroad
and 400 local fellowships has been established. The Government has initiated
action to reduce the number of underenrolled primary schools through consoli-
dation and gradual phasing out of small schools; to expand multigrade
teaching; to develop more cost efficient school construction designs and
standards; and to increase the utilization rates of secondary school facili-
ties. EPRD will be reinforced to improve coordination of, and provide
leadership to, the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by
ministerial divisions, universities, and private educational agencies in
Malaysia and abroad. EPRD, in conjunction with universities and MOE
divisions, will focus on assessing progress in the provision of educational
inputs, policy changes, institutional development, quality improvement and
cost efficiency. This will include research and evaluation studies concen-
trating on teachers' effectiveness; education costs; equity in the
distribution of educational opportunities; optimal combinations of educational
inputs; and national integration through education.
35.       A;cess to Quality Education.  To alleviate the present imbalance in
educational opportunities, the Government plans: (a) to provide adequate
school and resource facilities to the districts where their number and
adequacy are below the national average and raise this national average
gradually; (b) to achieve nine years of universal schooling by 1995, and reach
a secondary enrollment ratio of 80Z by 1995; (c) to provide boarding to
primary students in rural areas and to able secondary school students from the
most underprivileged segments of the population; and (d) to provide staff
housing to teachers in rural areas.



- 12 -
Government Program
36.       To carry out the above strategies, the Government has proposed a 10-
year subsector investment program (1986-1995). The first five-year phase of
this program (1986-90) would coincide with the Fifth Malaysia Plan period.
During this period, the investment in primary and general secondary education,
approved by the Cabinet, amounts to US$757 million equivalent. Parliament's
approval is expected by April 1986. The above subsector investment represents
35% of the allocation for the provision of new facilities for education
amounting to about US$2.1 billion equivalent. An additional US$454 million
equivalent for upgrading of existing facilities, research and vocational
training are also included in the comprehensive education and training
development program which amounts to a total of US$2.6 billion equivalent.
This represents about 15% of the total investment program under the federal
budget for the period, and ranks second after land development (15.2%). This
reflects the top priority given by the Government to education and manpower
development at large. The first investment slice of about US$313 million
equivalent, to be financed by the project, would specifically focus on the
provision of new facilities for primary and general secondary education under
the MOE. It would be followed by two overlapping slices of US$175 million
equivalent each, for which Bank financing has been requested by the
Government. An additional US$94 million equivalent have been earmarked for
the remainder of the Fourth Malaysia Plan program to be completed
independently.
37.       Assessment of the Program.  The Government's policy is educationally
sound and :½s plan of action gives substance and meaning to this policy.
However, tlh  ambitious quality-oriented reform of curricula and methods is
being affected by resource constraints which will probably slow down its
implementation. Therefore, the MOE has prioritized its objectives for the
1986-90 period, which caLls for expanding school facilities in districts
affected by the most acute shortages; repLacing the most inadequate TTCs;
providing necessary educational resources; training key education managers;
and studying major issues affecting the sector. Consequently, unless the
current economic outlook changes significantly, the original 10-year program
targets will probably need to be rephased over a 15-year period to end in the
year 2000, to remove the remaining shortcomings.
38.       The increase in the teacher:class ratio, in the number of teachers
with special functions and in ceachers' academic qialifications, the reduction
of class size and the additional requirements for educational materials, are
expected to increase by an estimated 24% the share of education in the total
government recurrent budget. Under these conditions, the MOE recurrent budget
in 1990 would represent 21% of the total federal recurrent budget as compared
with the recent 17%. This increased share is within the historic budgetary
limits (26% in 1972). In addition, the Government considers the proposed
development of primary and secondary education as one of the top priorities of
the Fifth Malaysia Plan and is prepared to meet the recurrent budgetary impli-
cations of its policy and related investment. Therefore, the MOE is expected
to be able to implement its overall policy, although it may have to sLow down
iL. strategy to increase the number of teachers as originally planned.



- 13 -
Experience with Past Bank Lending to Education and Bank Objectives
39.       The Covernment's overaLl education policy and strategies are the
result of a continuing process which the Bank has already assisted through
seven education loans since 1969 for a total amount of US$230.2 million. This
lending program has aimed to expand and improve basic education, and provide
trained manpower for industrial development. Significant Bank support has
also been given to institution building. The manpower and authority of the
MOE's Development and Supplies Division (DSD), which has been in charge of
planning and implementing the seven education loans, was strengthened
particularly through the implementation of the Fourth and Fifth Education Pro-
jects (Loans 1329-MA and 1657-MA) which provided 850 primary and 76 secondary
schools, respectively. The capability of the Faculty of Education of the
University of Malaya to produce high caliber evaluation of completed Bank
projects has been instrumental in improving the design of new projects. The
Bank has also assisted MOE's curriculum development and educational media
service, which are now among the best in the region.
40.       The OED audit report and project completion reports,4/ prepared for
the first four education projects, concluded that these projects were success-
fully implemented overall, despite delays, and their educational objectives
were achieved. Other points of interest were the need for: (a) strengthening
the staff and authority of the project implementation unit, and Cb) acquiring
sites at an early stage in project processing. These lessons were incorpor-
rated in the design of the three subsequent education loans and the Fifth
Education Project was recently completed on schedule.
Rationale for Bank Lending to Primary and Secondary Education
41.       Primary and secondary education are subsectors where the need for
improvement in quality and efficiency is the greatest because they involve the
overwhelming majority of students (97Z of total enrollments) and education
costs (80% of MOE budget), and because they are the foundation on which the
efficiency of the whole education structure depends.  In addition. the
Government has embarked on a major program to industrialize the country,
looking to Korea and Japan where higher enrollment ratios and quality of
education are instrumental in reaching high levels of industrial diversifi-
cation and technology. This economic orientation provides a strong rationale
to improve and strengthen the education base. Through the project, the Bank
would take advantage of its long-term and extensive involvement in the devel-
opment of primary and secondary education in Malaysia to further its produc-
tive dialogue with the Government on the strategies and institutional changes
for the sector, which would reconcile the need for a stronger education base
and its fiscal implications.
4/   Project Performance Audit Report No. Sec M79-408 of June 1, 1979 (First
Education Project), Project Completion Report No. 4471 of October 1981,
revised March 1983 (Second Education Project), and draft Project
Completion Reports of September 24, 1984 and October 1985 (Third and
Fourth Education Projects, respectively).



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Bs_Aground
42.       The proposed project was prepared by MOE.  It was appraised in May
1985 and postappraised in November 1985 to ensure the scope of the project in
the context of the Fifth Malaysia Plan (1986-90).  Negotiations were held in
Washington on March 17 and 18, 1986. The Malaysian delegation was led by
Mr. Nik Najib Husain, Principal Assistant Secretary, Finance Division,
Treasury. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5886-MA, dated April 1, 1986) is
being circulated separately. Supplementary project data are provided in
Annex III.
Objectives and Strategy
43.       The proposed project would constitute the first subsector investment
slice, under the Fifth Malaysia Plan, of the Government's 10-year program
(1986-95) to improve the quality of education, increase the efficiency of edu-
cational management, and expand access to better primary and secondary educa-
tion opportunities, with priority given to areas of greatest need. To achieve
this goal, the proposed project would assist in carrying out the Government's
plan of action on policy and institutional development to alleviate the issues
affecting primary and secondary education (Annex IV). The project would
include four national level programs, respectively for teacher training,
educational resources, staff development and studies, and 13 state level
programs for primary and secondary schools, and related boarding and staff
housing facilities.
44.       The following paragraphs summarize the Government's action plans to
achieve its subsector development objectives:
A.   Improving the Quality of Education:
(a) Teacher Training Program. Three new TTCs would be provided to
replace the most inadequate teacher training facilities presently
located in primary and secondary schools. The new TTCs would
provide 4,000 student places, i.e. 20% of the 1985 teacher training
capacity. The new TTCs would aLso enroll about 600 academically
qualified teachers who lack teaching certification and are hired on
temporary contracts, during the finaL residential year of an ongoing
four-year part-time upgrading program. No difficulty is anticipated
in hiring the 280 trainers required for these TTCs from among the
most experienced graduate teachers and specialized diploma
holders. In order to ensure complementfrity between TTC training
and graduate teacher training within the universities, agreement was
reached during negotiations on performance indicators for the
training of certificate, diploma and graduate teachers for primary
and secondary education for the period 1986-95.
(b) Educational Resources Program. The program would provide: Ci)
about eight million library books for the 6,600 primary schools so



- 15 -
that an average of five books is available to each student by 1990;
(ii) bookcases for about 4,700 underprivileged rural schools; and
(iii) audio-visual and educational material production equipment for
the 5,400 rural primary schooLs and 350 district resource centers.
Training for primary teachers in the use of library resources and
audiovisual aids is provided through regular inservice upgrading
courses. Each of the 350 district resource centers, established
throughout the country, would be equipped to provide 15 to 20
surrounding satellite schools with educational material support and
serve as decentralized inservice teacher training locations.
B.   Increasing the Efficiency of Educational Management:
(a) Staff Development Program. The program would include fellowships
required for the training of key officials at federal, state,
district and school levels by 1990, including about 40 two-year
Master's Degree fellowships and 100 three-month intensive study
fellowships abroad; and 400 three-month intensive local training
fellowships. The program would also include specialist services for
15 specialized instructors. The Staff Development Program would
focus on (i) managerial subjects including statisti:s, planning and
school mapping, education finance, administration and supervision,
educational media management, and project development, implemen-
tation and evaluation; (ii) general methodology areas such as educa-
tional research, curriculum development, educational technology,
testing and measurement, remedial instruction, and guidance
counseling; and (iii) specific subject methodology. During negoti-
ations, agreement was reached on terms of reference, procedures and
timetables for the proposed overseas and local training fellowships
and consultant services. The Government also provided assurances
that adequate operational funds would be made available for NIEM to
carry out the local training programs and for the MOE Scholarships
Division to implement its fellowships program through 1990.
(b) Studies Program. The program would finance studies relating to
quality, cost efficiency and equity in the distribution of
educational opportunities. They would include analyses of teachers'
attributes and effectiveness; management and effectiveness of school
facilities and resource centers; school mapping for Sabah and
Sarawak; the interactions among educational inputs, socio-economic
and environmental factors, and students' achievement and employment;
and national integration through education. Evaluation of key MOE
functions and tracer studies would also be included. The program
would provide specialist services to assist EPRD in carrying out the
studies. During negotiations, agreement was reached on terms of
reference, procedures and timetables for the proposed studies.



- 16 -
C.   Expanding Access to Better Education:
The 13 state level programs would finance the construction, equipping and
furnishing of about 3,300 classrooms (depending on the types and
standards of construction selected in the various areas concerned) in the
districts where the availability of educational facilities is below
national average. Extensions would be added to existing schools in some
cases. Critically dilapidated classrooms would also be replaced. Admin-
istrative and specialized facilities (e.g. multipurpose rooms and
libraries) would be added, as required. Boarding, particularly for
secondary education, and staff housing, mainly for primary schools in
rural areas, would be incLuded. No difficulty is anticipated in
recruiting the estimated 100 headmasters and 7,500 teachers required to
staff the new schools.
Management and Implementation
45.       Sector Approach.  The proposed project would be based on the
Government s agreed education development policy and related plan of action
for the 10-year period 1986-95 (para. 43). It would be the continuation and
improvement of past educational achievements which have demonstrated the
Government's ability to implement, manage and evaluate substantial projects
through its own institutions. This has been confirmed by the comprehensive
project appraisal tasks carried out by the government Appraisal Committee
established in 1984 under MOE chairmanship. These tasks have been performed
carefully and expeditiously. The sector approach would be the most efficient
way to execute the project because of the diversity and wide coverage of
subprojects spread throughout the country, which could not all be appraised
and supervised by the Bank. In addition, this approach would permit faster
and more fLexible financing based on the global government program expendi-
tures and not on individual subproject items. It is also a desirable way of
further strengthening the program management capacity for this kind of
operation in government agencies.
46.       The Government, in close cooperation with the Bank, established
general eligibility criteria for approval of programs and subprojects, and
specific criteria for their identification and appraisal. These criteria
wouLd ensure that project objectives are met. The specific criteria for each
type of program and subproject have been established on the basis of relevance
to the priority needs to be met during the Fifth Malaysia Plan; timely land
acquisition; local implementation capability; technical feasibility; and
impLementation efficiency. Also, guidelines and criteria for allocation of
loan funds were established to ensure that these funds are distributed over
the various programs and subprojects according to their specific features,
degree of sophistication and cost, and emphasis placed on them. The
Government has appraised the proposed project in conformity with the above
procedures, criteria and guidelines acceptable to the Bank. During negotia-
tions, the Government agreed that the project would be further appraised and
implemented according to these procedures, criteria, and guidelines.



- 17 -
47.       Organization, Monitoring and Evaluation.  The proposed project would
be implemented and evaluated under the responsibility of the Development
Committee (DC) of MOE with selective review by the Bank. The DC would be
assisted in its tasks by a Joint Secretariat including MOE staff from EPRD and
DSD. The staff of the units in charge of project implementation are suffi-
cient, dedicated and competent. DSD would be in charge of physical program
implementation and procurement of equipment, while detailed supervision of
civil works would be carried out by the Public Works Departmen§7 The proposed
project is well within the implementation capacity of the MOE.-'  Progress in
policy changes, institutional development and quality improvement would be
assessed by EPRD, in conjunction with appropriate universities and ministerial
divisions.  ErRD would establish performance indicators to monitor and
evaluate progress in the distribution of education Eacilities and resources by
district, and improvement in education quality and cost efficiency. The
project-financed studies wouLd be part of this effort. Performance indicators
were prepared by the Government on the basis of key targets selected from the
Government's plan of action (para. 41). These indicators relate particularly
to physical implementation and related capital and recurrent expenditures, and
qualitative improvements such as the reform of curricula, progress in teacher
and managerial staff training and upgrading, reduction of class size, expan-
sion of multigrade teaching, and increased utilization of educational
resources. During negoEiations, agreement was reached on these performance
indicators.
48.       Implementation.  Procedures for implementation of the civil works
component and for equipment procurement and technicaL assistance, acceptable
to the Bank for previous similar project components, would be applied to the
proposed project, which would be implemented in four years between June 1986
and June 1990.
49.       Reporting.  Following district and state periodic reviews, the Joint
Secretariat would report progress on a semi-annual basis to the DC. These
reports, assessing quantitative physical progress as well as quality and cost
efficiency improvement, as compared with agreed targets and performance indi-
cators, would be sent to the Bank for comments by March and September of each
year, and wouLd form the basis of annual project implementation review meet-
ings of the Government and the Bank by October of each year, during which
targets for the subsequent year would be established. An in-depth mid-term
review of progress towards the targets of the government education investment
program, including the level of related recurrent costs, would also take place
with the Bank about October 1988. During negotiations, agreement was reached
on the schedules for the above review meetings and reports.
50.       Status of Project Preparation.  A comprehensive detailed list of new
school facilities to be provided under the project has been established.
Sites are already acquired for the TTCs and most of the schools, and are at
5/   During the first four years of the Fourth Malaysia Plan (1981-85), 15,000
classrooms, nine secondary vocational schools, three TTCs and one
polytechnic were constructed by the MOE.



- 18 -
various stages of acquisition for a few remaining schools. The designs for
one TTC are completed and those for the other two TTCs are heing revised.
Standard designs and alternative designs of smaller size will be used for the
schools. Standard equipment lists for the schools and TTCs have been revised
to conform with the new curricula, and lists of library books are being
completed. Most bid documents and working drawings are likely to be completed
by April 1986. The fellowship program is being finalized; advertising for
prospective candidates to the proposed fellowships is being prepared; and
contacts with foreign educational institutions for the fellowship program have
been made. Draft terms of reference, procedures and timetables for the
proposed studies have been completed. The proposed programs, as appraised by
the government Appraisal Committee, have been reviewed by the Bank and have
been found acceptable. Prequalification of contractors, book procurement,
fellowships and studies are underway, and major project operations will start
by mid-1986. During negotiations, agreement was reached on space standards
for school classrooms.
51.       Investment Program and Financing.  The first slice of the government
investment program for the development of the primary and secondary subsector
is estimated to cost US$312.8 million equivalent, including US$265.1 million
of base costs and US$47.7 million of contingencies at March 1986 prices. This
program would be assisted by the proposed project through a Bank sector
investment loan of US$127.0 million equivalent. This rjould equal the foreign
exchange component and would finance about 41% of the total project cost,
excLuding duties and taxes. The Government would finance the remaining costs
of US$185.8 million equivalent. Construction cost estimates for the schools
and TTCs are consistent with the recent costs of similar schools and colleges.
Furniture and equipment cost estimates are based on standard MOE master-lists
and the experience of previous similar project components, adjusted to the new
curricula. Unit costs for overseas fellowships are estimated at US$2,000 per
man-month for long-term and US$4,500 for short-term fellowships. Unit costs
for specialist services are estimated on the basis of recently negotiated
contracts and include external and internal travel, accommodation and subsis-
cence. Physical contingencies have been computed on the basis of 5% for fel-
lowships and specialist services and 10% for all other categories. Price
contingencies, which are equivalent to about 7% of base costs plus physical
contingencies, were calculated in accordance with the implementation schedule
and the following expected average annual increases: 5Z for 1986 through 1990
for domestic price inflation; and for foreign costs, 7.2% for 1986, 6.8% for
1987 and 1988, 7.0% for 1989, and 7.1% for 1990. The estimated incremental
annual recurrent cost generated by the proposed project, when all schooLs and
colleges are operating at full capacity, wouLd be about US$84 million
equivalent at 1990 prices. This would represent about 3% of the MOE operating
budget, which is reasonable. The Government provides adequate budgetary
allocations for acceptable annual maintenance.
Procurement
52.       Civil works contracts for the three TTCs (estimated to cost a total
of US$41.1 million including contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of
ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. The primary and secondary education
facilities are dispersed over 80 districts and are unlikely to draw interest



- 19 -
from internationaL firms. Therefore, contracts for these facilities would be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding, in which foreign firms
would be allowed to participate in accordance with government procurement
procedures which have been acceptable to the Bank in similar projects. This
is justified because contracts would be small and locations scattered;
Malaysia's construction industry is large and efficient; and all civil works
in the first five projects relating to primary and secondary education have
been awarded to local contractors even though foreign firms were allowed to
tender.  Equipment and furniture would be grouped to the extent possible to
facilitate bulk procurement. Packages estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent
or more would be awarded on the basis of ICB in accordance with Bank
guidelines.  In bid comparison, domestic suppliers would be allowed a
preferential margin of 15Z of the c.i.f. costs of competing imports or the
actual customs duties, whichever is lower. Below this threshold, equipment
and furniture packages would be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding in accordance with government procurement practices acceptable to the
Bank. The aggregate of such packages would not exceed US$13.1 million and
would represent about 15Z of equipment and 70% of furniture costs.
Miscellaneous items in packages not exceeding US$35,000 in value and
aggregating US$5.0 million, i.e. about 10% of furniture and equipment costs,
would be purchased on the basis of at least three price quotations or through
Treasury contracts for bulk procurement, as agreed with the Bank in previous
projects. Books and instructional materials would be procured in accordance
with normal government procedures which have been acceptable to the Bank for
previous projects. All specialists would be selected in accordance with Bank
guidelines for the use of consultants, and fellowships abroad and local
training would be arranged through negotiated contracts acceptable to the
Bank. Contracts awarded under ICB would amount to about US$72.3 million,
i.e., 23% of total project cost including contingencies, or 31% of the loan.



- 20 -
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(in US$ million)
Category of                                                           Total cost
expenditure                                                           including
(z of FX)                      ICB          LCB       Other        contingencies
Civil works and related
professional services        43.8        189.4          -             233.2
(35Z)                       (15.3)       (66.0)        -              (81.3)
Land                             -            -          6.2               6.2
Furniture                       2.1          7.8         1.2/a            11.1
(25%)                        (0.5)        (2.0)       (0.3)             (2.8)
Equipment                      26.4          5.3         3.8/a            35.5
(90Z/20X)/c                 (23.8)        (4.8)       (3.4)           (32.0)
Books                            -            -         19.2/b            19.2
(25Z)                          -            -        (4.9)              (4.9)
Specialist services              -            -          1.4/b             1.4
(902/202)/c                    -            -        (0.8)              (0.8)
Fellowships                      -            -          6.2/b             6.2
(901/20%)/c                    -            -         (5.2)             (5.2)
Total                     72.3        202.5       38.0             312.8
(39.6)      (72.8)      (14.6)           (127.0)
/a   Misceilaneous items procured on the basis of three price quotations or
Treasury contracts for bulk procurement.
/b   Negotiated contracts.
7T   90% for overseas and 20% for local specialist services and fellowships.
Note: Figures in parentheses refer to loan allocations. Contingencies are
included in these figures.
53.       Prior Bank approval of sketch plans, bidding documents and contract
awards would be limited co the three TTCs, in view of the adequate
capabilities of DSD and the Public Works Department. In all other cases, the
Government would confirm, without submitting designs, bidding documents and
contracts, that this documentation would conform to agreed schedules of
accommodation, construction standards and guidelines. Contract awards for
furniture and equipment, valued at US$200,000 or more each, would also be
subject to prior Bank review. This review would cover an estimated 30% of the



- 21 -
contracts and over 60% of their value according to recent contract profiles
for similar project components.
Disbursement
54.       The proposed loan of US$127.0 million would be disbursed over a
period of five years. Disbursements would be made on the basis of Ca) 40% of
the cost of civil works and professional services; (b) 100% of the c.i.f. cost
of imported equipment, furniture and books; (c) 100% of the ex-factory cost of
locally manufactured equipment, furniture and books; (d) 70% of the cost of
imported equipment, furniture and books procured locally; and (e) 100% of the
cost of specialist services and fellowships. The disbursement forecast
indicates that the proposed loan would be disbursed at a faster pace than the
worldwide and regional averages for education projects and the most recently
closed project in Malaysia (Loan 1657-MA). This is feasible because of the
improved efficiency and implementation capacity of DSD, the advanced status of
project preparation, the routine character of most operations, and the fact
that the bulk of project works is well within MOE's implementation capacity
due to the limitation imposed by resource constraints.
55.       Special Account.  To ensure that funds for the project would be made
available as soon as needed, a Special Account, operated by DSD, would be
established in a bank in Malaysia with an initial deposit of up to US$8.5 mil-
lion, approximately equivalent to the Bank's share of four months of estimated
project expenditure. A matching revolving fund for counterpart funds is not
required as such funds are committed and readily available within the Treasury
as soon as the project budget is approved by the Government.
56.       Retroactive Financing.  In view of the advanced state of project
preparation and to ensure a prompt start-up of project operations, expendi-
tures on civil works, construction materials and equipment, books and tech-
nical assistance, up to a total of US$6.0 million equivalent, incurred as from
January 1, 1986, could be financed retroactively.
Accounts and Audit
57.       Separate accounts for all project activities would be maintained by
DSD in accordance with sound accounting practices satisfactory to the Bank.
DSD would submit to the Bank annual statements reflecting the financial per-
formance and position of the project together with independent auditors'
reports.
Benefits and Risks
58.       Benefits.  The project would improve the quality and management of
education, and expand educational opportunities benefiting areas and popu-
lation segments of greatest need, while asserting the prevailing importance of
the nine-year basic education program. The 130,000 new student places
(para. 44C) in primary and secondary education, benefiting 180,000 students,
would be established in the most disadvantaged or overcrowded districts, and
would, at the same time, contribute to establishing more cost-efficient
practices and quality standards for school construction, consistent with the



- 22 -
new activity-oriented curricula. The provision of staff housing, mostly in
rural areas, would promote teachers' commitment and efficiency where they are
particularly critical. The teacher training component would benefit over
4,000 prospective teachers in facilities pcovidutng better training and a
higher motivation and status to the trainees. The provision of educational
resources in rural areas would strengthen educational support to the poorest
segments of the educational system. The staff development program, with its
multiplier effect, would benefit over 500 education officers who will be
responsible by 1990 for key educational and managerial functions. The pro-
posed studies would enhance the Government's knewledge of critical aspects of
the education system, namely financing, planning, quality evaluation and
national integration.
59.       The project would also yie.d significant educational outcomes,
enabling students to master basic knowledge, enhancing their analytical and
proolem-solving skills, initiative and sense of responsibility towards school
and community, while giving them weLl-rounded personalities through diversi-
fied practical activities. The practical orientation of teacher training
would also enhance teachers' class management skills, resourcefulness and
creativity. Headmasters' improved managerial and leadership skills would
result in more effective use of school resources and greater staff motivation.
60.       Risks.  The Government's investment allocation to the subsector
under the Fifth Malaysia Plan will not enable HOE to reach its original
targets to dramatically reduce the shortage of educational facilities and
double shifting throughout the country. This would have required over 20,000
new classrooms to be built by 1990, as compared with the 7,000 to 8,000
classrooms possible under the revised investment program. However, the
project would alleviate the most critical needs, and the qualitative inputs
such as improvement of teacher training, educational management and educa-
tional resources would compensate for the modesty of the quantitative develop-
ment program for the subsector, which may have to be extended to the end of
the century.
61.       Resource constraints could slow down the implementation of the
education development program. The increase in recurrent costs, which would
result from the increase in teacher needs and qualifications to implement the
new activity-oriented curricula, is likely to represent a heavy fiscal
burden. Therefore, it may be necessary to maintain some traditional methods
and thus slow down the implementation of the ambitious qualitative reform of
education. However, this is not a major risk since primary and secondary
schools could be acceptably staffed according to a more modest teacher:class
ratio than originally envisaged by the Government and no problem is
anticipated with regard to teacher training.



- 23 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
62.       1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 10, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-  24  -                                -hzer. 1
TAILE  34                                      Page  1  of 6
MAtASIA               -" mat xmcrmDf  a
NALATIXA  ~ ~      ~      RFERNC COL"p cvumIcm  AVdACiLS)43
str                     (Mt  rO  aTU   /b
arnlb!     Iit7OL   UmUw6b        ASIA & PACIFIC         LA. 1MIWA   CM
IwAL                              329.8      32.8       329,
ACGRICLTUL                        345         39.3       43.6
c a CUSS)                             ..         .. )L60.0   1             1011.1                  17S.9
-t _iiinl  u   m.za
(tZIoZAIS Or OIL Q)UVAWLT)       614.0       435.0      609.0             5.6.                    "3.8
PUMAnIU Sm vITAL sUhsUC
POP,uslON,NZD-TAE CUOUBSADS)   3205.0    10963.0    14863.0
1u1 POPULATION CZ Q6 TOrAL)       25.2        D7.0       30.7              35.9                    6.7
p0NiuATION PROJECIOU
POPULATOg IN tA AR00 (ECa)                             20.S
STATLONM  POULTI   (MLL                                33.0
PrULATION D1Sr                                           .3
PER 90. MI.                     24.9        32.9       45.1             386.0                    48.0
PEt go: M  AGCR. LA.D          235.5       273.2      333.2            1591.2                    91.1
POULATIEON fZ STCOUE (l)
0-14 'MS                        45.1       45.6       37.7              38.2                    3b.5
15-I4 1                         51.2        51.4       58.4              57.7                    57.1
65 ANDABOVE                       3.4        3.0        3.7               3.5                     4.2
POULATIU  GrOWER RAT (I)                                  2                  .
TOTAL                             2.7        2.8        2                  .3                     2.4
UR7AN                            4.9         3.5        3.4               4.1                     3.6
wDn Sim2  EAtI (PEt1T0o5)         4.3         35.7       29.1              30.1                    3U.9
CUD O:i U A  (Pa  U TCOS)         14.9         9.2        b.4               9.4                     S.0
aOSS unooucN     IIg               3.4         2.6        1.8               1.9                     2.U
ACEPORS. ANNUAL ( s)              ..        56.0       51.1 Ic
USERS ( or  HARIE WIRUC)          ..        33.0 Id    42.0              55.5                    45.3
INDEX OF 30 PROD. UR CIRTrA
(1969-71-100)                     85.0       ".0        133.0             124.4                   1094
uM COAITA  SUts Or
CALORtCS O1r 06  QU5ETS)        102.0      109.0      122.0             !15.7                    113.2
PROTEINS (CRAU   M DLT)     *6.0            50.0       64.0               0.3                    "9
OF W1C11 ANIMA. LID PULSE       17.0       18.0       23.0 Is           14.1                    34.2
CHILD (ACM 1-4) OEA  RATE          7.5         3.4        1.4               7.2                     4.3
Nauss
LIFE GECt. AT 311 (TES)           53.9        61.2       Sb.9              60.6                    eMJ
TWArf "T. RTUE (M TaOs)           72.0        45.5       29.0             64.9                     59.7
ACCESS ID SAFE WAT5  CXPO)
TOTAL                              *        29.0       66.0 Ie           46.0                    65.3
u1n                               .         75.0       90.0 77           57.6                    74.5
RURAL                            ..          1.0       490 7;            37.1                    4.2
ACCESS 11 EXCREA, DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULAnTI)
TOAL                              ..        59.0       70.0 c            30.1                    56.3
URAN                                       100.0      100.O T;           52.9                    13.6
RURAL                            ..         43.0       55.0 72-          4a.7                     Us.S
POPLATION PER EISSICIAN         7060.0      4310.0     7910.0 in         7751J                   1909.7
POP. Pm NMRSING PERSON          1800.0      1120.0      940.0 W          244.8          808.2
POP. PR IlOSPrlAL aM
TOTAL                           270.0      290.0         .             1112.1                    362.0
U1m2                            110.0      140.0         .              651.4                    422.0
RURAL                          5710.0     1760.0        ..             2596.9                   2716.7
ADnnSs1IONS PR MOSPAL 8EO           ..        18.4                         *1.1                    27.5
Slx-
ATZvtC  SIZE OF WUSEHLO
TOTAL                             ..         I.bf       .
URa                              ..          5.9 7      .
RIRAL                            ..          5.S 7
AVERAS NO OF PERSONS/ROOK
TOTAL                             ..         2.6 If
URBAN                             ..         2.3 7       .
RMAL                             ,,          2.a T
PERICME OF DUELLIIICS WTil ELECr.
TOAL                             ..         *3.6 ft
URaAN                             ..         4.7 7 T.
RUAL                              ..        30.1 r
1/ US$1,990 in 1984.



-25 -                                         ANNEX I
T ADILS  34                               Page  2 of  6
MA IIDn                 (      "T U )
wooL!  aunt! RECENWTGTEDAMAMB &
1i         1971!  =Eun ?TB         ASUI & 714C             LAT. AIUCA & CAl
ADJUSTD   UOLUUT 34=10
PEINAEWm   TOTL                  96.0        67.0       97.0              100.7                    106.7
NAU      l- o.                    91.0        97.0             104.4                     10.5
X13AL                  33.0       54.0        97.0              97.2                     104.6
abrc lmAta TOTAL                 19.0        34.0       72.0               47.O                     44.2
NMU                    25.0       40.0        72.0              50.6                      42.7
laLv                   13.0       28.0        72.0              "44                       44.9
vocaua Cl or sUWlmaW)               4.6         2.9         1.6              18.4                     13.3
PUPIL-TRACKE RATIO
PIDIS                            23.0        31.0        25.0              30.4                     29.9
57COIID34 Y                      25.0        26.0       22.0               22.2                     16.7
PAmUzE  CAU/300315D10              11.3        21.9        42.8 1g           10.1                     46.0
RDXO                    Po         36.9        39.6      415.4              172.9                    328.3
TV uCEIWIRU/UA        o             3.2 fl    11.0        89.9               58.5                    112.4
N3WUAPZ ("AIL3. GUEIRAL
P   SIIODM PCPlATOVQ              60.0        72.1       182.2              65.3                     81.1
CINEN  A10AL  ATAMZMWCAPITA        18.0         9.4        2.6 Je             3.4                      2.4
TOTAL tAN o  2ota C oHI)          2800.0     3668.0      5431.0
LtEZ   (CIT)                     27.2        31.         314               33.6                     23.6
AGEXCILTU  (CPEC)                63.0        56.0        50.0               2-.2                    31.
I3WUSTRY CPUS?)                  12.0        14.0        16.0              17.9                     24.3
PAXcIPATIS RATE (PECN)
TOTAL                            34.1        33d         36.3              38.9                      33J
11Z                              4U4.        45.7        49.3              504                      513
PSIALK                           13.9        21.3        23.2              264                       15.9
RCODNmIC D    D     SRAnO           14          1.4         1.2               1.1                      1.3
1MC? OF PREAS IfCUN3
aIcKs of    s    a
CONES 50  NOUINOLDIW             W 34.0      27.0
HICNST 202 0F 10U0L81           61.2        56.6         ..               4.0.
LUNET 2CS ar HOUSHOL              3.2         33          ..                6..
LOiS! C40x of01 sUSU I            9.6        10.6         ..               15.5
- wan   -
am  oman mour orn
LEE CUSS PER CAPIA
UR                                ..        123.6       314.4 /c            ..                     20.3
RUR.L                                       I111.6    289.2 Je          151.9                    185.3
ZSTIfAD ZuLArYV PVR ' DiCI
Vut Cuss an CF)
A                                 ..          ..          ..              177.9                    519.3
sRAL                              ..          ..          ..              164.7                    359.7
STIATED POP. ftASSOLOn
POWElllT EW LmELE. CZ)
GUAM                              ..         21.3       12.6 Is            23.5
RURAL                             ..         56.7        37.7 A            37A.
NU AVAlLAILZ
*NOT APPLECALZ
N O Tr Z 3
/a  7he group averag  for each Indlasto are  a-r oLato-4tted arltbetlc mama. Covrage of countris
_Wg the Indicator. depen an avalabIlUty of data ad Is Pot eaifoxo.
lb    ales. otherwis nioted, "Data for 19EV retfr to am  year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" bee
1969 and 1971; end data for "btc Rent ESctimt" betwen 1981 and 1983.
/c  1980; Id 1974; 1. 1977; /f PeninsuLar Walsyala; IL 1973; /b 1964.
JUNE. 1935



ANNEl; I
- 26-                                           Page 3 of 6
DENIT WOF SOCIAL I        ASC
Noem Niboulah idm an     from sme. pmaWlyJ.dwd Ob musthoduws  mab it sbmad Wm be otAd that the may mm beia 010taumi
_mblae bicsinsAof domdi of 1 amnd d  d  dtbdam md cmpu  Je by diat cou  . coaNmxellg the dat. Mm data atae. Imodmk  uu to
doibm  I oer __aituWndctunitmd dmtismuii nejr diffi    bew.  omui.,
The dru poi we (1) lbancomby poup of the subja inuauy m  (2) a coumay swup wub somcwhat hiaher avau*w I     th1n &be coeuy
poop of he Um  oomy(qt for 'R111hb boom     Ean t op wbatMd&coel North Afncad Middlc Eat' d            bcmedof mo
inciocuhdlu aoldm3. _u4l  I    Va p dam tdoe avam me popuato wegted _ib.  mea for       h indo and db_w. only wha mjonty
oftSbe owurimi a e    km _dta tbf t d ditcmne Siaw the mskg- ofommang die erdemlom depen on the avilabihmy ofdaa and is se uamu.
nuo. mut be    'ad inedag awaupa ofe idicato anotbar T .m avmec te only usMia mmauu he vwaue of o dicao ata me among
she cnunuzy mad inezmupoo
AREA (thousand sq.kn.)                                        CmadaM * Rdt (pw rhino-Number of livc bths in the year
Tota-Total suface a eampmng land area and  land waters        per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. nd 1963 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     Cr Deat hie (par aim.od)-Nusslnber of deaths In the year
4asdeukm'a5-Eatimate of agricultura area usd temporarily or   per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970, and 1913 data.
permanently for ca  pasu    market nd kitchen gprde  or to    Gm Reproe    R hi-Average number of daughters a vman
Lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                         will bear in her nrmal reproductive perd if shc ex
pre      i ae-pecificTfeity rates; usualy five-year aveaga ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estmates at cunt          in 1960. 1970. and 19S3.
market pric, calcu d by some converion method as World
Bind Atkas (1981-83 baiu) 1983 data,                          ber of_accposof bth-rol devics u r auspcs of national
ENERGY CONSUFON PER CAPM-Annual appfmt rily plming paz.
consumpton of commmercid pimary energy (coal and lignite,     Fa* PlinuW-Uus (percu  qf   rfrid wm,a)-The pesca-
petrolumn. natural gm and hydro-. nulear and geothermal dec-  tap of married womn of child-beig age who ar practiig or
ticaty) in kilogras of oil equivalent per capita; 1960, 1970. and  whom husands are practcing any form of conraception. Women
1982 data.                                                    of hild-bearing agc am generaly women agd 15-49. although for
sme cmmu        contraceptive usg  is measrd for other ag
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISICS                                group8.
Toad Papulxd .. Ard- YeIw fthoomils-    of July 1; 1960. 1970.  FOODANDNUTRITION
and 1913 data.
1hmx fF.ed PrcdPlw Cipza (19691-71 - in)-hide orper
Ur_. Rpmasu (paa   o rf stal)-R.ao of urban to total          capita anual production of all food commodite  Produatk
populaton; ddliernt defim      of urban ares may affet copa-  echudes animal feed ad seed for agricuture. Food com-modties
abilty of data among counties; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.      uhude p niary commodie   (e.g. supran  instead of sugar)
A       _ahwieu Pmwjeeri                                      wbich ae edible and eontain nuients (eg. coffee and tea are
Papulw    an y-w  2OJ-Tbe prjctio of population fr 20O,       cxduded) they compnr  cerals, root crop, puls  oil scads.
mad for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegtbls fruits, nuts. sugrcane and sugar beea, liveock, ad
total population by age and sx, fertility rates. mortality rates and  vestock products. Aggegte production of each conmtry i based
intenational migration in the base year 1980. thes parmete    on national average producer price weights; 196145. 1970, and
wer projected at fve-year interals on the bas  of generahed   1982 datuL
asmptios until the population bee stationary.                 Pin. -c.,iSA*pOf c   '{(m-rear rqfr-W)n-Cmput-
Staaeary popultion-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from caorie equivalent of net food suppies available in country
tality rames have not chUaged over a long perod, while agepecific  per capita per day. Available supplies conprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement levl  tion. imports kss exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction atce-1). In such a population, the birth rate is  exclude mnial feed, seeds for us in agricultum  qantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food proceng. mnd losses in distribution. Requ ments wre
consunt. and the growth rate is zcro. Thc stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiologiad needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristc of  and health considering environmental temperatr  body weights
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertity  ag and sex distribution ofpopulation. and allowing 10 pecent for
rate to rplacement levd.e                                      waste at housebold kvel; 1961. 1970 and 1932 data.
Popukuio. Mlmennwa-ls the tendency for population growth to   Per Capita Supqfy fiFres (Lrm    p- day)-Protem content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of rood per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requienments for al countries established by USIA
unity. The momentum ofa population in the year t is measwed as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grms of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 graim
the year r. given the assmption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment levl from year * onward, 1985 data.                      75 gmms of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Popdatd- Denty                                                average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
P*r sq.kn.-Mid-year popultion per square kilometer (100 bec   Supplr, 1961. 1970 and 1982 data
tarcs) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              Per Cpasta /ata Spply Rfium Adand  MAei ns-Protci upply
Per sqAm. agrwcuiral Iad-Computed as above for agricultural   of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day. 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                         1970 and 1977 data.
Po-pwdu    Age Ssractw  (pewr)r-Children (0-14 years). work-  Chr (ages 1-4) Death Rare (per rthesaud)-Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years.andretired (65 yars and over) as perentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population 1960. 1970, and 1983 daa.              group in a given year. For most developing countnes data derived
Popdustkuw Grew-rh Re (percisurp-earl--Annual growth rates of  from life tabls; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.   EEALTH
Popul.ieu Growth Ratt (per)-arhu--Annual growth rates         Lj,( Expociancy at Rit (year-l-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 datL    infant would live if prevailing pattcrns of mortality for all peopk



.': 
- 27 -                                ANNE-. I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth wer to stay the same througt it itf; Rk PW tr*er Ratio - prmlry.  d secont&ry-Tota stuen  en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data                                      rai  in punary and sconda  kvels divided by numbers of
kjwMm'tu       6& (jipal t)-Number of infauts who die         tcher in the orrepontn leve
befomrercing on ye  of ag per thousa  live births in a given
yea, 1960.1970 and 1983 dat.                                  CONSUMPIION
Am   s Sif  Waw (pS4e1 L*if                     Maw)  and      AMA G      s 0e (p__ _nF p         i-Pasegr cans coa-
Nuumb  of peopl (totl uwi raonble                             prd  mtor cr seatng less tn eight pmronc cludes ambul-
acs to sae waer supply (includes treated surfae waters or     ances hearses and military vehied.
ueatd but uncontamine war such    thot from procted           Reb     vws (puw                         Mt   of reive
boreoles. sxipon     anitary wdl.) n psi_taUpoftbhir pe-      for radio bradcat to genra public per thousand orf puato
tne populdiots In an wrbmn are a pubLic foumtin or stadpoict ecdu d     nes 4ic d reives in counuie  and in year whe
located not   e thn 2D0 metrn from  a houie may be cnd-       registration of radio set was in effect da  for r -t yeas may
as being witdin  asonable a   of that hboue In rund           not beacomepabl   ce nson          abolisl ing
reasonable  a  would imply that the houswfe or membe of thles                         ot nie
homebold do not have to spnd a disproportionate pat of the day                                        receivers for broadcas
in fetching the familwat r  n,                                to geeral publc per thousan populadion; wcdes u*licesd TV
Aacm to Ex&mts Dhpy_d (pwcgw  e{_opdmdmk-1_94 111161116 _iwvcts in counti and in years whe rqiston of TV sts w
r_d rw-Number of peopic (totaL urban and rurl) served by      in  f(a 
excreta dipoal a prenta    of thr respective populNat  o.                                                      th a
Excrets disposal may inude the coection and disposaL with or  ae ceulation of -day g      interest nvwspapas" dned - a
without tement. of human cret an  wastebwater by water-       podc  pubcation devod primry to amrig general news.
borne syst   or the use of pit privies and simlar inst ion.   It is considered to be daify it appears at lm four times a wekt
hep.kdupw PAyAi, tpaion divided by number of prac-            CheES  Am         AgudUc pe Cypt. p.' Yea-3ased on the
tiing physcia  qualiied f ama medicw ishool a unvelylevl      number of tickes sold during the yeas induding admission to
Pir p I A   pw N-j*W Pasow-opulation divided by nu-bcr of    drive-in enemas and mobile units
pracci   male and female grduate nuses assitnt nuse            a
praccl nurss and nursing auxiliaries                          LBO  FORCE
RI I "   pr JW#Wk  Am 4 . , -d                   Ta  Labo' ireg (shruimbr-Eamomincaly activc persons, in-
(totL udbn and rual) divided by their rpect   number or       dudmg armed forces and unempkyed but excludg houewives.
hospital beds xmibiin pubk andp        pn agnd  06Wish10 nd  .......studet.m. etc.. covering popuation of  a  es Definitions in
hospibs            a        nrd privaebgntion centeaa Ho pitalm  v arno  countries arc not conmpable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
pesrsnently sta&  by at leat one physicn. Esua0bihaes prov-   R       (jrc-Fafale labor force a pe tete or total lbor
iding principally custodial cae are not inchlded. Rural hospitals.    fon
however icude bcalth and nmdlcenters not pcrn.ntly sta -is- 4 pr (pw)b-Labor f     in farming. forestry. huntg
by a physicin (but by a medical assant. nure, nidwife. etc.)    and fishing as pement   of totl labor forme 1960. 1970 and 1910
wbhh ofe inpatient accommodation and provide a imited range   data
of medical fix:lies.                                                lahsnr (parea)-Labor force in mining construction, manu-
per Baed Ae-Total number of admions to or                     actoig and  icity. watr and ps as percetg of total labor
disharg  from hospitals diWid by the number of bedLs         for, 1960, 1970 and 1980 data,
Pavdpdoaf RAte(pwra)--.tueu wkmul,ajismk-4Paridaon
HOUSING                                                       or actuivity rates are computed as total. male and female labor rorm
Avwe Wze of HaY_U  (pfi p' *om-ddD-&os4  __1116    as perentages of totaL mal and femalc populton of all agcs
_nd 4i-AbhouscoldconsR     ofagroupof ind ivid ualswhosha     respectively 1960. 1970. and 1983 data-.Tbese wer baed on ILO-s
vsng quars and bthir main meals. A border or bdser may or     partcipaio ratesreflectingage-sex scuce of the popuato  and
my not be inclded in the household for saistcal pupoes        lng time trend. A few estimates are fror natonal sournm
Aonsge Nwlim ofPso.r pr Roaue e _ __r,arba, ad run-           EmwD_ Dwpeady Rtio-Ratio of population under IS.and
Average number of pemons per room in all urba  and ural       65 and over. to the working age population (thoe apd 15-64).
occupied convenional dweing, respecivdy. Dwelligs exclude
non-permanent stuucuws and unoccupued parts                   INCOME DIS1RIBUTION
P-_W     LfDwE    wh Eiaki-eaai mris.. adurd-                 F.qe  of Toed D4wpne husr (Jsri ca m   d ldod)--
Conwentionaldwengs with eectricty in living quartrs asperen.  Aruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tae of totaL uban and rural dwdeng repecly.                   bold income.
EDUCATION                                                     pOVERTY TARGEr GROUPS
A4assd E      _eamu JRio                                      The foflowing estimates are very approximat measures of poverty
l'nwy school - rotad. maoak aadfenad-Gross total, male and    kves. and should be intcrpreed with considerable caution.
fea eolagment of r  age at the pmnary lvd as pemnta  of       EsdAAuise ibmV  mou Levrel (USS.pffcpitr)-wI
rsive prmry schooge populations. Wie may countis              <. rut-Absolute poverty incm   kvel is that income  viel
co.sider primary schow  age to be 6-11 year othas do not The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differenc in count  pnices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are relfectd in the ratiosven. For some countries with uvnal    -Eufate Relmte h0p   Iuem  Le d (US per oapu)-hs
education, gss enrolment may ceod 100 pent since ome          ad rura-Rural relative poverty income kvel is one-third of
pupils am bdow or above the country's stadard prmary-sool     avrage per capita personal mcome of the country Urban kvel is
aF                                                            derived fron the ruI level with adjusmet for higher cost of
Seadry schwel - roal. male anddjear-Computed as above;    living in urban a
sewndary education requires at les four years of approved pr-  E.ltiswd pfatim   elow Ahsuulue Fbswry Lmewe Levd (pgr-
may instruction: provides general vocationaL or tehr traumg   cen-      w ad rra- Percent of popubtion (urban and runal
insuctons for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are -absolutc poor.
ecace cous  are genealy excudled.
Voatal E        _roba  (prcent of mcdody)-Vocational institu-           Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include tech     indushtraL or other progams wbich operate     Economi Analysis and Projections Deparment
independently or as dprtments of seondary institutios.                                June 1985



ANNIX I
- 28 -                                                 Page 5of 6
COUNTRY DATA- MAAYSIA
CROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1984:                           ANNUAL RATE OF CROWTRH
Z In eonstant pric a and MS
USS Mln      Z         1961-70   1971-77   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1
CNP et lkrket Prices               30,621   100.0           6.4        7.8      5.9    9.0    8.6    7.2    4.8    4.4    6.1
Gross Domestic Investment           10,183    33.3          6.7       11.4      8.1   13.5    8.0   22.1   14.6    6.8   .3.2
Gross Nstional Saving                7,959    26.0                      *        *       *       *      *       *      *       *
& ports of Coods & NFS              18,399    60.1          6.0        7.5      7.6   17.5    2.7    0.5    8.7   11.0   14.7
Imports of Goods 6 NFS             18,473    60.3           2.9        8.5     12.9   28.5   11.1    7.2   11.2    7.8    9.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1983 /a
Output                          umployment                    Output per worker
TS$u ln           _                 Mn _                             USS                %
Agriculture                             3,054             21.3            2.0             37.0             1,558             58.7
Industry                               4,491              31.3            1.3             24.1            3,545             133.6
Services                                6,803             47.4            2.1             38.9            3,122             117.6
Total/Avernge                    14.348             100.0           5.4             100.0            2.654            100.0
COVERNMENT FINANCE
Ceneral Covernuent
NS Mln                                      Z of GOP
1984        1971-75        1976-80        1981        1982        1983        1984
-Zorrent Receipts                            20,820         20.6           24.4          28.2        27.3        27.2        29.0
Current Expenditures                         19.141         24.9           30.5          24.4        26.0        23.6        26.7
Oirrent Surplus                               1,679          0.6            1.2           3.8         1.3         3.6         2.3
Direct Development Expenditures               5,304          5.1            7.3          15.8        11.6         7.7         7.4
Net Lending                                   3,592          3.0            3.4           4.1         6.7         5.5         5.0
Foreign Borrowing (net)                       4,226          2.1            1.3           5.2         7.8         6.4         5.9
HDNEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
(Million M$ outstanding end period)
Money and quasi-Money                8,714  10,001  12,771  14,861  17,467  21,616  27,652  32,371  37,648  41,193  45,876
Bank Credlt to Public
Sector (net)                         959   1,313       822   1,213   1,017    -742       549   2,292   3,982   3,431   4,146
Bank Credit to Private
Sector                             5,275   6,077   7,471   8,971  11,844  14,982  20,936  25,718  29,916  36,417  42,974
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Money
as 2 of GDP                         38.1    44.8    45.5    46.0    46.1    47.9    53.3    57.7    61.5    60.6    59.8
Consumer Price Index
(1980 - 100)                        69.8    82.0    85.7    87.9    92.0    96.5   100.0   109.7   116.1   120.4   125.1
Annual Percentage
Changes in Consumer
Price Index                          17.4     4.5      2.6     4.7      4.9     3.6      6.7      9.7     5.8      3.7      3.9
Bank Credit to Public
Sector (net)                        69.4    36.9   -37.4    67.8   -16.2          *        *   317.5    73.7   -13.8    20.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector          15.1    15.1    22.9    20.1    32.0    26.5    39.7    22.8    16.3    21.7    18.0
* Not applicable.
/a In 1970 prices.
Note:  All converslons to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
September 1985



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
-29-
TRADE PAYMNTWS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS             1982       1983      1984                    MERCRANDISE EXPORTS (1984)
-- -(USf nlilion) -                                      US$ million       Z
Exports f.o.b.                 11,952    13,863    16.250          Rubber                         1,565        9.6
Imports f.o.b.                 12.464    13,160    14,233          Timber                        1,539         9.5
Nonfactor Services (net)       -1,616    -3,027    -2,177          Petrolew.                      3,729       23.0
Resource Gap (deficit - -)    -2,218    -1.324        -160         Tin                             479         3.0
Factor Services (net)            -958    -1.548    -2.042          Palm Oil                      2,268        14.0
Net Transfers                     -33        -22       -22         All Other Goods               6.670        40.9
Balance on Current Account
(deficit - -)                -3,119    -2,894    -2,224                Total                  16.250       100.0
Direct Foreign Investment       1,256      1.206       898
Net MLT Borrowing /a            2,597      2,133     2.063         EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1984
Disbursements                   2,838      2,391     2.617
Amortization                      241        258       554                                                 US$ Mln
Subtotal                     3,853     3,339      2.961        Public Debt. inel. Guaranteed             11,872
Nonguaranteed Private Debt                3,933
Other Items n.e.i.               -931      -396       -657         Total Outstanding & Disbursed            15.805
Increase in Reserves t-)          197       -49        -80
International Reserves
(end year)                  4,021     4,102      4,109        DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1984 /b                Z
Fuel and Related Materials                                         Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed               7.9
Imports                             *         *          *        Nonguaranteed Private Debt                   4.0
Exports                             *          *         *         Total Outstanding 6 Disbursed              11.9
Of which:  Crude Petroleum   3,288      3,393      3.729
IBRD/IDA LENDING (SEPTEMBER 30. 1985)
(USS million)
RATE OF EXCRANGE                                                                                              IBRD
Average rate during period:                                        Outstanding & Disbursed                  807.04
Undisbursed                              482.46
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed          1,289.50
MS per US$             USS per MS
1974                    2.41                  0.41
1975                    2.40                  0.42
1976                    2.54                  0.39
1977                    2.46                  0.41
1978                    2.32                  0.43
1979                    2.19                  0.46
1980                    2.18                  0.46
1981                    2.30                  0.43
1982                    2.34                  0.43
1983                     2.32                 0.43
1984                    2.34                  0.43
* not available.
/a Public/publicly guaranteed debt only.
/b Interest and amortization payments as a proportion of total earnings from exports of goods and services.
September 1985



-30-                             ANNEX II
rage 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS /a
As of September 3U, 1Y8a
Amount in US$ million
Loan                                                                   (less cancellations)
no.    Year       Borrower                 Purpose                    Bank      Undisbursed
Forty-three loans fully disbursed                                        867.66
1376    1977   Malaysia              Highway (III)                        35.00       4.79
1444    1977   Malaysia              Nat'l Small-Scale Irrigation        39.00        1.84
1493    1978   Malaysia              National Extension                   19.00       1.89
1590    1978   Malaysia              PELDA VI Land Settlement            28.00        3.67
1632    1978   Nalaysia              Krian-Sungei Manik Agri. Dev.       26.50        0.27
1717    1979   Malaysia              Muda II Irrigation                  31.00       10.83
1808    1980   Nat'l Elec. Board    Power (TX)                           50.00        4.41
1899    1980   Malaysia              Kelantan Land Scheme Rehab.         25.00       21.03
1957    1981   Malaysia              Rompin-Endau Area Dev.              40.00       24.74
1960    1981   Malaysia              Trans-Perak Area Dev.               50.00       39.58
2013    1981   Malaysia              FELCRA I                            37.00       24.60
2145    1982  Malaysia               Industrial Training (Educ VI)       40.60       34.45
2146    1982   Nat'l Elec. Board    Rural Electrification (Power X)    86.30         39.85
2147    1982   Malaysia              Malacca Agri. Development            25.40      19.05
2220    1983   Malaysia              Kedah Valleys Agri. Development    56.90        47.57
2291    1983  Malaysia               Sabah-Sarawak Road                  86.22       86.00
2438    1984   Nat'l Elec. Board    Power (XI)                           70.00       69.78
2471    1985   Malaysia              Small-Scale Enterprises              52.10      48.11
Total Loans (less cancellation) lb                            1,665.68
of which has been repaid                                      332.29
Total now outstanding                                         1,333.39
Amount sold                     43.89
of whlEc  has been repaid                                      43.89
Total loans now held by Bank /b                               1,289.50
Total undisbursed                                                           482.46
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b Excludes Loan 2530-MA, PELDA Palm Oil Mills Project, US$31.2 million approved on
May 7, 1985; Loan 2550-MA, Sabah Forestry Technical Assistance Project, US$6.5 million
approved on May 21, 1985; and Loan 2601-MA, Second Industrial Training Project,
US$73.3 million approved on July 2, 1985. None of these loans were effective as of
September 30, 1985. Subsequently, Loan 2530-MA became effective on October 28, 1985
and Loan 2601-MA on November 1, 1985.



-31 -ANNMEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
As of September 30, 1985
Amount in
Type of            US$ million
Year             Obligor                    business      Loan    Equity  Total
1964-74   Malysian Industrial Devel-        Financing         -    1.94    1.94
opment Finance Ltd. (MIDF)
1985      SEAVI-MA                         Money and          -    1.00    1.00
Capital Mkt.
1966      Tasek Cement Ltd.                 Cement          1.28    0.28    1.56
1968-69   Malayawata Steel Ltd.             Steel          2.45    1.24    3.69
1970      India-Malaysia Textiles, Ltd.   Textiles          1.25    0.25    1.50
1985      Pacific Hardwoods                Pulp and        9.97    1.53   11.50
Paper Prod.
Total Gross Commitment                          14.95    6.24   21.19
Less:  repayments, sals, cancellations,
terminations and write-off                4.98    3.71    8.69
Total Commitments Now Held by TFC                9.97    2.53   12.50
Total Undisbursed                                4.97    0.41    5.38



-32-                             ANNEX III
MALAYSIA
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project             : 8 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project             : MOE
(c)  First presentation to the Bank                : July 1984
(d)  Main Bank identification mission              : November 1984
Ce)  Date of departure of appraisal mission        : May 1985
tf)  Date of departure of postappraisal mission   : November 1985
(g)  Date of completion of negotiations            : March 1986
(h)  Planned date of effectiveness                 : July 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The Covernment would:
(a) make adequate operational funds available for: (i) the National
Institute of Educational Management to carry out the local training
programs included in the project; and (ii) the MOE Scholarships
Division to implement its fellowships program through 1990
(para. 44.B.(a));
(b) process subprojects according to agreed procedures, criteria and
guidelines (para. 46);
(c) monitor and evaluate progress in project implementation on the basis
of agreed key performance indicators (para. 47);
(d) hold annual and in-depth mid-term implementation review meetings
jointly with the Bank on the basis of semi-annual progress reports
(para. 49); and
(e) establish a Special Account in a bank in Malaysia (para. 55).



-33-                                               ANNEX Iv
Page I of 4
MALAYSIA
PRIMART AND SECoNDARY EIUATION SPCTOR PROJECT
Plan of Action on Policy and Institutional Development
Status and/or                                    Action to be
Objectives                          etiorn taken by MWa  1985                completed during the period 19P6-oS
1. Ouality Improvement
1.02  Irprove curricula and         A New 'risen  School Curriculum (WM  C) was       The NSPC wUit be implemented in the six
teaching methods aimed at    introduced in Standard One in 1983 and is          standards of prlmry education in 1988.
the overall growth of         gradually being implemented.  Tn 1985 the         The University of Science, Malaysia (USK)
humn personality              NPSC is taught in Standards One to Three,         wltl evaluate the whole new primary course
The Ministry of Fducation (MOE) expertments    after it is fully implemented.
with the NSPC in triSl schools, together
with revised or new educationAl radio and
TV program,s textbooks, workbooks and
readers. New manual skills programs are
being tested in Standards One and Two in 74
schools. The ?ME monitors and conducts
continuous evaluation throogh specialized
evaluation units at central and state
leves ans the SPSC is introduced into a new
standard. In addition. smurtive teats are
performed every yver with students.
A New Secondary School Curriculum (ESSC)        In 19d6. a conputer literacy program for
is being developed along the NPEC lines.        Form IV will be experimented Ln 20 trial.
schools and mmnual skills will also be
tried out among Form III students in 71
Lower Secondary Schools with industrial
arts workshop facilities. The experimen-
tation -and initial evaluation of the draft
NSSC are planned to start in 1987. The
NSSC will be introduced In 19S8 starting
with rorm I and will reach Form V in 1902.
1.n2  Redesign teacher training    The teacher training curriculum now incor-         The lower secondary teacher training curri-
along the lines of the        porates the practical subjects required to        culu_ In Teacher Training Colleges (TrrC)
activity-oriented new         develop the resourcefulness and know-how to    and the upper secondary teacher training
currcula                      teach the NPSC. Subject integration.              curriculum in teacher training faculties of
instruetional system teehnology to develop.    the Ilniversities will be adjusted to incor-
produce and utilize resource materials,          porate the practical subjects and methodol-
student achievement evaluation. nultigroup    oy required to teach the NSSC. The re-
teaching and remedial instruction methods        vised teacber training curricula will be
have been introduced.  Art and craft and         introduced in lO86 in TTCs and in 1987 in
Language proficiency have been empha-            Universities so that secondary teachers
sized.  In addition, inservice teachers          will be prepared for teaching the NUSC vhen
planning to teach the NPSC are given an          it Is introduced into Form T in 1988 and
eight-day intensive orientation session.         into Form IV in 1991
1.03  Tncrease the teacher:         The teacher:claea ratio is being progres-         The 1.5:1 ratio will be applied in all six
class ratio to provide        sively increased from 1.2:1 to 1.5:1 in           primary Standards in 198R.
teachers with more time       pritmry schools. The new ratio was
to prepare and discharge      introduced into Standard One, together with
their academic and extra-    the SPSC  In 198R.  In 1985i  the new ratio
curricular assigments.        is applied in Standards One to Three.
as required by the new
curricula
1.04  Increase the proportion       About 757 of upper secondarv tenchers and         By 1990. 15% of upper secondary teachers
of university graduate        only 52 of lower secondary teachers are           and 15Z of lower secondary teachers are
teachers in secondary         graduates.                                        expected to be grsduates.  Ry 1995 the
education to raise the                                                          respective percentages are expected to be
academic standards of                                                          I1nI0 and LnO.
secondary education
1.05  Provide secondary schools    The secondary school headmaster, the senior    By 1Q90. all secondary schools are expected
with teachers with spe-       assistant and the afternoon supertvisor (in       to be provided with at lest one guidance
cial functions to take        double shifting schools) are generally            counselor and one teacher specialized in
care of students In areas    assisted by a variable number of teachers          sports, nedia and/or library services.  By
outside academic teaching    with special functions.                            1995. secondary schools are expected to be
staffed with teachers with special
functiona as folles:
No. of classes          20   21/35   36F
Weadaster                I      I      I
Senior Assistant         I     1       2
Afternoon Supervisor    1       1      I
Guidance Counselor       1     2       3
SportstlediafLibrary    1      2       3



3-                                                ANNEX TV
PaRe 2 of 4
Status and/or                                    Action to be
Objectives                        action taken by May 19lO5                  completed durinR the period IQR6-95
1.06  Upgrade teacher trainers '   About 600 of the existtng I  600 teacher          New teacher trainers will be recruited
qualifications                trainers (over 372) are nongradumtes or          among graduates or postsecondary special-
have no postsecondary qualificktions.           iced diplos  holders.  The 600 insuffi-
cientLy qualified teacher trainers will be
provided with postsecondary qualifications
through fellowships or ahort-tern study
courses abroad. or at the National Tnati-
tute of Edueational Management (NHIM) or
through the Teacher Education Division's
courses,  By 1990. 200 of these teacher
trainers will have been upgraded. Ry
1995. aLl teacher trainers are expected to
be graduates or postsecondary diplom
holders.
1.07  Provide all schools with      Host secondary schools but only 302 of           By 1990, all primry schools will be
educational resources to      primary schools have a library/resource          equipped vith resource facilities
iuprove atudeats' and         center.                                          Including a library and other resource
teachers' creativity                                                           matertals along the lines of the NPSC.
along the N'SC activity-
oriented lines                Four State Resource Centers (RCs) in             The 350 District RCa, which are not pro-
Peninsular Nalaysta, 15 Division RCs and        perly equipped. will be provided with ade-
117 District RCs provide schools with           quate resource equiprent and materials by
referral support In educational technology    1990.
and staff upgrading. About 210 comple-
mentary UDstrict RCe are establbshed in
selected central schools serving IS to 20
*steltite schools each.
1.08  Reduce the nusber of          The enrollments of about 19.000 primary          Class sizes of over 40 will he progres-
overcrowded classes           and 7,ono secondary classes range from 40        sively reduced. through provision of new
(above 40 students) for       to over 50.                                      facilities, starting with the most crowded
efficient class manage-                                                        so that class size does not exceed 45 In
sent under the new                                                            19Q  and 40 in 1995.
curricula
1.09  Reduce double shifting        Shorrage of classrooms results In about          Every effort will be mdc to limit double
which is detrimaentl to       55: sad 802 of primary and secondary             shifting (a) in schools whenever it
Implementation of the new    classea, respectively, being schooled in          critically reduces instruction time and
curricula                     double shifts,                                   precludes extracurricular activities, and
(b) in rural areas, wherever It nenerates
commtuing hardships and hazards to
students living far from schools.
1.10  Increase teacher training    The 27 TTCs in operation have a normal            Utilization of teacher training facilitiem
capacity to cope with the    capacity of about 17.0n student places           will be further expanded to cater for a
increase in staff re-         for an annual output of about 5,5n0.             total enrollment of sbout 29.000 in
quired to implement the       However, daily operation time has been           1987.  An output of about 9,5nn new teach-
new curricula In pri_mry      extended in a number of TTCs.  Am a              eras will thus be made svyllable to schools
end secondary education       result, enrollments in 19*5 have reached         from IRS onwards (R ,100 for primary and
snd to upgrade teachers'    about 20,000.                                      1,40n for lower secondary education).  An
qualifications (Objective                                                      additional capacity of  ,0oon student
1.04)                                                                         places will be provided by IQRQ in order
to reach a total training capacity of
about 0nno0 student places, for an annual
output of about 10,000, while replacing
3,0nn student places in inadequate TTCs
(former prinary and secondary schools).
These will gradually be converted into
schools.
Part-time inservice courses of one to two       The permaent upgrading of about 102 of
weeks' duration are provided by TrTCe  re-    the qualified teaching force annually will
source centers and HOE Divtsions to up-         he continued.
grade about 1O0 of the qualified teaching
force annually and to introduce them to
the new curricula and related teaching
methods.
A'bout 6,0no academically qualified primary   The first and the last groups of 1,2m0 up-
teachers without professional certifica-        graded primary teachers wilt graduate in
tion, hired on temporary contracts, are         198R and 1992, respectively.
being gradually upgraded to qualified sta-
tus on the basis of 1,200 p.s., through a
part-time inservice four-year course which
has started in 1984.
Five unfversities are training about 5,500   The teacher training capacity of the uni-
graduate teacher trainees for an annual         versities will be expanded to train about
output of about 1.800.                           10,000 teacher trainees for an annual out-
put of about 3,000 graduate teachers from
1900 cnwards.



A"NNX rv
- 'It~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ANIXT
-35 -                                            "alte I of A
Status and/or                                   Action to be
Objectives                        action taken by Kay q985                 completed during the period 196-45
2.  Efficiency of Educational
Management
2.nl  Implement * comprehenatve    The Covernment has established the             A comprehensive staff development program
ataff development program    National Insttitte of Educational Manage-    during the lO86-QS period will include
to improve the quality of   ment (NIIt) to train key educational and        about 2.nn  partictpants. A prinritv list
educational development.    managerial staff at the Four levels of          of 160 fellowahipa abroad In %einR eatah-
management and eva-          educational administration (miniatertal,       lished and an additional 4nn ataff will he
luation.                     state. district and school).  So far,          trained locally through short-ter  courses
WIDE, still in its inittal phase, baa          during the iqRf-qO period. The program
trained about 5,n00  education officers       includes trainers  posttions at the MTIE
N                                   through short-term couraes and seminars,       and kev educational and mnagterial post-
and three one-month haaic courses for          ttona in major ministerial ditisions,
Improved management and effective profes-    State Education nepartments and Resource
slonal leadership in which about one          Center., and District Education Offices.
fourth of headmasters (2,000) partfcipa-      These positions should be filled hv ade-
ted. MIEN has also been instrumental in       quately trained officers by 199n. As for
launching quality control circles at the      VI1E, tt wiLl train 6,nn0  proFessional and
various levels of educattonal management      administrative staff annually from 19RS
snd coutrses for school clerks.                onwards.
2.02  Consolidate underenrolled    Small diLapidated or dispersed schools are   The nuher of underenrolled primary
schools to ske pritmry       being gradumlly phased out. There are          schools will be kept constant or vill
education miore coat         about 2.40n underenrolled schools,             decline through school consolidatton. The
efficient                                                                   average class size in underenrolled
schools will be gradually brought up from
an average of IR presently to 2n in logn
and 24 by 1ws%.
2.03  TIprove multigrade           Nultigrade teaching techniques have been       Trainirg and retralning of teachers For
teaching technicues in       introduced Into the preservice and             multigrade teaching situations will he
rural priusry schools        inservice teacher training curricula,          expanded and intensified. As a result, It
Is expected that mltigrade teachntg will
he utilized in 602 of the schools with a
total enrollment below 120 by 1990, end In
all such schools bv 19"r
2.O4  Improve the cost effi-       Emergency (kilat) and self-help (gotong        Tkesigns oF reduced stze Fe.g.,  * 50 sq ft
clency of school con-        royong) construction methods, based on the   for classes of 60 or less) will he uti-
struction deaiRns and        intensive use of procesLd wooden struc-        lized, and the utilization factor of each
standards, and the utili-   tures, wherever timber is readily avatl-        classroom will he no less than ROE and
zation rate of school        ahle, have been Introduced in rural areas    that of each laboratorv or workeshop wili
facilities                                                                  he no less then 752.
2.05  TDvelop sonitoring and       Monitoring snd evaluiatton of the oualitv      The Fducational Planning and  esesrech
evaluation of the quality   and effictency of education ere presently    Division (EPRD), In conjunction with
of education to maximize     performed on a regular haste within the        aupropriate universities and ministertal
the impact of educattonsl   MOE by the Federal Insuectorate, the Exan-   divisions, will establish procedures and
tnuats on student            inattons Syndicate, the Curriculua Devel-       ndticators to assess annual Progress In
achievements                 opwent Center, the Scbools Division, the       the provtsion of educationTt tnpots in-
Textbooks Bureau, the Teacher EducAtion        cludinR facilittes. resources, qualifted
Division And the Educational Planning and    ataff, progtr as And methods, and Improve-
Resesrch nivision, the University of          ments tn students  achievements and test
Science, Malaysia, and the Faculty of Fdu-   scores. nn thts hbsis, It will produce an
cation of the UTniversity of Malaya.  Ad      annual evaluatton report on the quality of
hoc reports are published,                    education, in conjunction with a statisti-
cal report on the education sector.
EPRn will coordinate and sonitor the
research amn evaluation studies on the
qualitv, management and cost-efficiency of
education in Paelavsia Included In the pro-
Posed World 'tank-financed Drimary and sec-
ondary education sector Project.



-36-                                          ANUU Iv
fage 4 of 4
status and/or                                 Action to be
Objectives                      action taken by May 1qR5                completed during the period 19R6-95
3. Access to Improved
R4ucation
3.01  Maintain universal          Universal primary education has been          It to planned to enroll a total of about
primry educatlon            achieved throuRh intensive utilization        2.5 million primary students in 199n, t.e.
and. In many cases, overcrowding of          an increase of about 300,000 student. over
facilittes. The average classroom:student   present enrollments (or 60,000 p.a-),
ratio is 1:46 snd over half of primary       according to projected population growth,
classes have to double shift.  Moreover,     In order to mAintain universal primary
the classroom:student ratio is below         education.  In addition, priority for
national average in 44 districts, and the    school construction will be given to
classroom:class rstto in below national      districts below national average In the
average in 55 districts,                     proviston of school facilities so that
these districts catch up with the national
average by 1990.
1.02  Expsnd lower secondarv      The lower secondary enrollment ratio has      It is planned to enroll a total of 1.0
education towards univer-   reached about RRZ with about 900.0no0  tu-    million lower secondary students in l99n,
salization                  dents in Forn I to III out of a total of    i.e. an incresae of tn0,Onn students over
abet 1.3 wilLion secondary students.         present enrollments (or 20,000 p.a.), In
This achievement has taxed secondary         order to raise the relevent enrollment
school faetltties. The average class-        ratio to 921. In 1995, lower secondary
room:student ratlo is 1:61 and there is an   enrollments will reach 1.2 rUllon in
average proportion of 6 classrooms for In    order to achieve universal lower secondary
classes. resulting in ROE of secondary       education, aa planned.  she sbove action
classes having to double shift. Moreover,   will result in 1.5 wmtlion and 1.7 milLion
the classroom:student and ciassrooa:clasa    students being enrolled in secondary edu-
ratios are below sational averages in 59     cation at larRe in I10 and 1995, respec-
districts.                                   tively. This will raise the overall
secondary enrollmnt ratio from the
present 722 to 772 and R3 in 1990 and
1995, respectively. according to
population growth projections.
1.01  Provide boarding faecli-    Boardins IN provided to students who cas-    The present policy wiLl be continued.
ties to students living     not commute easily from home to school and   However, every effort will 'he mde so that
beyond daily reach of       to enable secondary school students frore    no more than 10  of total secondary
schools or who otherwise    the most underprivileged areas who other-    enrollment is accoemodated is boarding
could not equitably         wise could not benefit from secondary edu-   schools.
benefit from secondary      cation. There are presently 27 fully
schoolting,                 residential secondary schools and 23n par-
tial daschool hostels accoindating
abot 10? of the secondary school popula-
tion. Provision of boarding to primary
students is mainly concentrated tn Sarawak
and is miniml for Malaysia as a whole.
310G  Provide staff housing to    Staff housing is provided to teacbers in     In the period 196-95. rural prtmry
improve teachers' living    the most remote areas.  hese benefits are   teachers will be provided with additional
conditions in rural areas   gradually extended to all teachers in         staff housing on the hesis of needs deter-
areas where commLunications and living con-   mined by district education offices.
dittons are poor. Presently about i1,nn0
primary teachers out of 33,000 are pro-
vided with accomodation.
3.05  Continue the textbook       This scheme costs aboet MS4n million per     The scheme will be expand,A propor-
loan scheme                 year (115$16 million equivalent) and          tionstely to the increase in school
includes about  ,n0n titles,  It provides    population.
free textbooks, workbooks and readers to
about l.R million primary students and
textbooks to about 1. 1 million secondary
students (over ROX of the school popula-
tion).



a                                         o                                          - - \ - IBRD A19300R
*  10'2                   y
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR
-~   .FSTUDENTS PER CLASSROOM  BY DISTRICT
PRIMARY EDUCATION, 1983
!    COx             \                   ~~~~~~PENINL^R MUAY
THAILAND                                    A     Y
Standard DevAatios    Students
1 -2          54 -64
60                                                                  -I    -    0   34   -          G6
D'2                        15--25
:h r                                                                          School   DisW '  ..o .hdari es
State Bourmqianes
a" D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Dnu
Intnutona Sond40e
SOUT
V~~~~~~~HN
~~~~~IIET NAM~~~~~~CHN
0   20  40  60PILiPPIESY                                                               2
FHA~~LAND   Siiurh~~ ..h... -...
PHarIIPP'INS'  INDONS
A\      INDONEStIfAi Chin
'?ENINgULAR~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E~UE 198



IBRO A19305R
1000              1:- :;'                   -    1020                                              1040
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR
STUDENTS PER CLASSROOM BY DISTRICT
SECONDARY EDUCATION, 1983
PEWRL MMAYMA
THAILAND
Standwd DWor   *   Sudents
>   2 Sm'.  .8-1lo
,       .t  l                                                     1 -  2   .    74- 8B
o       2KI   60 -74
Mini-   Ficok   -1 -  0         45 -60              '
- 6r"'~ X                P->h m-2 - -1    31 - 45
a IIMumS M   Vadue Equals 59.70
Timur LJu$                                            Kum  t   is           -a  School District Boundaries
~~k~~~~pcuaim. -   HUIu Peak                           - - - ~~~~~~~~~State Boundaries
Barat Dsray                                                                 Toreanu          Internntionl Boundaries
Ka5-Ulu Kelanton  ?Ulu Terunggpnu   Bring
>  /- J KualaKage                                L 
Kinto~
Drdlnjb  -                   Kuala L;pis
Jerantutt      Keman  ,
_eraic   B)8atang
4Pfu    Padang                                                                                                 40-
<  ,          ~~~~Raub                      Kuna =               S(7f
vsBt;u Selengo^ Terneloh HN
p&langor9-~ *t *   ,5 ._ B                      Pekan
0   20  40  60  so 1W         >     Grbk ;,                                * 
KILOMETERS                      L    pr         t,                   j 
-    =  -        -  -               Langat\ ow _   _    CKuala Pilal
_ _ >v 4 ISerernbeE > A ~~~~~~~~~Rompin L'
1C0° --                                   D7clksm   tTampmn.    -j
\IIDEMOCRATIC A. l I                                                                   -
j,/l K^M HEA / ||kQ2*                                                          ~          5-rsn
- ,( w XL <V ,g,T IAM                                                 o  v- lur ^ w   ~
,..i  NAM          PHIiLIPPINES                   °                                  .--N 7-: -0
THA LAND 1    A    South China            1 f
X     D    O:.-F g12   e}14
PENINSULAR `RUNE -9 S
-MAL YS :                                                                     . - -
MALA ~     ~      SMAE4                     ~fLGAOE
D'0NESIAINONSW



IBRD A1931OR
t10°                             1120                            1140                           1160                          1180              CE      IERi94
MALAYSIA
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR
STUDENTS PER CLASSROOM BY DISTRICT                                                                      Kudat
PRIMARY EDUCATION,1983                                                                                  s/,n
EAST MAA                                                                                 ) YSItAs/Bnggi
Standard Deviationa *     Students
2        1      98   ° - 140E                                                  Tur
6                                                                                                 Fm~~~~~~   9     4Pnampmn              Sandakan 
- School District Boundariets                                          >      F         E      4                     > 
- -International Boundaries                                  ,,                                  ,         M       .l 
0   40   80  120  160  200/>X;   )'t
40                              KlLOMETtRS                              C                  a                                         ,_ 4-
_-"^48  . INDONESIRI           \       iNDONESHIA I   fES
20   ~ ~ ~~~~~>                                 2                                        abat
StaenBundrie
.  L   |                 t                               t                            9     .      u               \                        . _~~~.  -
InternationalBoOndariesamarnak
N      11~~0       4     010            11020014                                   5~                   Sma,)(uiatn



mD A1931WR
1140                           1120                         1140                         1160                        1il            DECEIIB£ 19ON
MALAYSIA
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR
STUDENTS PER  CLASSROOM  BY DISTRICT                                                             Kuda,      0
SECONDARY EDUCATION,1983 19. 3(                                                                      n
EAST BL^rsu                                                * t 8 / to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Pitas/Variggi
EAST WALAYSIA                                                                              -.
Standard Doviations *   Students Kat                                                           afa    O
>' 2    a   186 - 289                                                 Tuara    4'
KParri'naarltl".   k  ~~Ia3                                  601
t~~ ~~~~~ -                            77 - 131                                dRN                                                    kan0
Kuala Pei         Ta 
Mean Value Equals 177.35                              BUE
School District Boundaries                                    ',x
- State Boundaries                                    N                             P.                               -
International Boundaries                                                                                           porns
0   40  80  120  160  200                                           Lmbn
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
KILOMETERS
0 ~~~~~~10
k    .                                      11                          Ila   b4 S
Matu/Dpro                                   .
,  k9%LlANrAN  .-~.;.u;,KAMPUCHEA.-;
;                                                                         Xr~4JIJ,f        OI,SarikeIA                                PHILIPPIAES
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
sq4x  :   a                        ~~~~~~THAILAND
BRUNSI | Sat,h
*~-"~~****   ~MALAYSIA                               I'       -
INDONESIA                      .. ..MLYI 
(KALIMANrAN)                              .t
INGAPORE       %j
7'~~  'JNDONESIA\  ~~~INDONESIA
1100                  ~~1120                        1140                          umtrjIKalimantan)



