Docuent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13145
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
FIRST AND SECOND PRIMARY
AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECTS
(LOANS 2685-MA AND 2987-MA)
.JUNE 14, 1994
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of December 1992)
Currency Unit - Malaysian Ringgit (M$)
US$1 - M$2.51
M$1 - US$0.398
Average Annual Exchange Rates to US$1.00
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1922
M$     2.48    2.58    2.52    2.62    2.71    2.71    2.75    2.58
FISCAL YEAR/SCHOOL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CDC     -    Curriculum Development Center
DEO     -    District Education Office
DERC    -    District Education Resource Center
(renamed Teachers' Activity Center)
DSD     -    Development and Supplies Division (MOE)
EPRD    -    Educational Planning and Research Division (MOE)
EPU     -    Economic Planning Unit (Prime Minister's Department)
ETD     -    Educational Technology Division
GOM     -    Government of Malaysia
IAB     -    Institute Aminuddin Baki (MOE)
KBSM    -    Kurikulum Bersepadu Sekolah Menengah
(Integrated Secondary School Curriculum)
KBSR    -    Kurikulum Baru Sekolah Rendah
(New Primary School Curriculum)
MOE     -    Ministry of Education
MOLM    -    Ministry of Labor and Manpower
PGDE    -    Post Graduate Diploma in Education
PIU     -    Project Implementation Unit
PSESP   -    Primary and Secondary Education Sector Project
PWD     -    Public Works Department
RC      -    Resource Center
SAR     -    Staff Appraisal Report
SED     -    State Education Department
SERC    -    State Education Resource Center
SPM     -    Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia (Upper Secondary
School Certificate)
SRP     -    Sijil Rendah Pelajaran (Lower Secondary School Certificate)
TED     -    Teacher Education Division
TTC     -    Teacher Training College
UPSR    -    Ujian Pencapaian Sekolah Rendah (Primary School
Achievement Test)
USM     -    Universiti Sains Malaysia (University of Science)



FOR OFFICuL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operatlons Evaluation
June 14, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Malaysia
First and Second Primary and Secondary
Education Sector Projects (Loans 2685-MA and 2987-MA)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Malaysia--First and Second
Primary and Secondary Education Sector Projects (Loans 2685-MA and 2987-MA)
prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. It constitutes a satisfactory
account of project performance. Part II was prepared by the Borrower. While it is in
broad agreement with the Bank's findings, it provides useful clarification and highlights the
importance of Bank staff understanding the country context.
These two projects constituted the first investment slices of the Govern-
ment's 10-year general education development program (1980-85). Their objectives were
quality improvements in primary and secondary education, better sectoral management,
and a more even regional spread of educational resources. While the first Loan was
closed with an 18-month delay, with 14 percent of the funds cancelled, the second was
disbursed on time and fully.
T'he outcomes of both projects are rated as satisfactory: the operations
exceeded their quantitative targets and met most of their quality improvement objectives.
Institutional development was substantial, despite occasional shortfalls. The sustainability
of project benefits appears likely because of their modest impact on the budget.
Covenant compliance was broadly satisfactory, with some instructive
exceptions: belated submission of annual audit reports, failure to reduce primary class
sizes and continued operation of numerous small, uneconomical schools.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
FIRST AND SECOND PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECTS
(LOANS 2685-MA AND 2987-MA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ....................................................                                             i
PART I.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project  Identity ..........................................                                      1
Project  Background ........................................                                      1
Project  Objectives ........................................                                      2
Project  Components ........................................                                      2
Project  Design  and  Organization ...........................                                    3
Project  Implementation ....................................                                      4
Major  Results  and  Benefits  of  the  Projects ................                                 8
Project  Sustainability ....................................                                     14
Bank's  Performance ........................................                                     15
Borrower's  Performance ....................................                                     16
Findings  and  Lessons  Learned ..............................                                   17
Project  Relationship ......................................                                     19
Consulting  Services .......................................                                     19
Project  Documentation  and  Data ............................                                   20
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III..    21
Government's  Comments  on  the  Projects .....................                                  21
Evaluation  of  Bank's  Performance ..........................                                   22
Evaluation  of  the  Borrower's  Performance ..................                                  22
Major  Lessons  Learned .....................................                                    22
Relationship  with  the  Bank ................................                                   23
This document has a rsicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.l



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont.)
Page No.
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
3.1  Related Bank Loans                           ..                         24
3.2A  Project Timetable (Loan 2685-MA)                     .       .         27
3.2B  Project Timetable (Loan 2987-MA)                     .       .         28
3.3A    Estimated and Actual Disbursements (Loan 2685-MA)..    29
3.3B    Estimated and Actual Disbursements (Loan 2987-MA)..                  31
3.4A    Project Implementation (Loan 2685-MA)                 .     .        33
3.4B    Project Implementation (Loan 2987-MA)                 .     .        37
3.5A  Project Costs (Loan 2685-MA)                      .         .          39
3.5B  Project Costs (Loan 2987-MA)                      .         .          40
3.6A  Project Financing (Loan 2685-MA)                     .       .         41
3.6B  Project Financing (Loan 2987-MA)                     .       .         42
3.7     Project Results
A.  Benefits (Loans 2985-MA and 2987-MA) ...........    43
B.  National Examination Results ...................                 51
C.  Studies (Loan 2985-MA) .........................                 52
3.8A    Compliance with Loan Covenants (Loan 2685-MA) ......                 55
3.8B    Compliance with Loan Covenants (Loan 2987-MA) ......                 58
3.9A  Bank Missions (Loan 2685-MA)                      .         .          61
3.9B  Bank Missions (Loan 2987-MA)                      .         .          64
3.10A Bank Staff Inputs (Loan 2685-MA)                     .       .         66
3.10B Bank Staff Inputs (Loan 2987-MA)                     .       .         66
fAVPS  -  IBRD Nos. A 19300R - A 1931n7 - A 19305R - A 19315R



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
FIRST AND SECOND PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECTS
(LOANS 2685-MA AND 2987-MA)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) relates to the First and Second
Primary and Secondary Education Sector Projects in Malaysia, for which Loans
2685-MA and 2987-MA in the amounts of US$127.0 million and US$58.8 million
were approved on April 29, 1986 and August 2, 1988, respectively. Loan
2685-MA was closed on December 31,1992, 18 months behind schedule. At the
Government's request, US$15.3 million had been cancelled on June 23, 1992.
The final disbursement was made on April 15, 1993, and US$2.5 million of
undisbursed funds was cancelled on September 29, 1993, the date on which the
recovery of the Special Account and the refund of the remaining balance was
made. Loan 2987-MA was closed on schedule on December 31, 1992 and was fully
disbursed. The final disbursement was made on March 12, 1993.
The PCR assesses the degree of success in implementing not only the
project components but also the sectoral policy and strategies which
constituted the agreed justification of both Projects.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Population and Human Resources
Division, Country Department I, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
The Borrower's comments on the Bank's perspective were taken into
consideration in preparing the final version of Part I.
The PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Reports, the
Development Loan Agreements and other legal documents, supervision reports,
progress reports of the Borrower, project files of the Bank and the Borrower,
interviews with Bank staff and discussions with Government officials during
the Project Completion Missions which visited Malaysia in September 1992 and
May 1993.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
FIRST AND SECOND PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECTS
(LOANS 2685-MA AND 2987-MA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
i.       The First and Second Primary and Secondary Education Sector Projects
(PSESPs) were the continuation of a chain of seven education projects, started
in 1969, which had established a strong institutional base for sector
development (para. 1.8). They constituted the first investment slices of
the Government's 10-year general education development program (1986-95),
considered as an integral part of the wider national socio-economic policy
(para. 1.1). It was the first attempt at adopting a sectoral approach
tackling education and training issues in a comprehensive manner. While
direct preparation for employment was to be provided through specific
industrial training with closer links to the profession, general education
was to produce trainable graduates with higher mental skills, as required by
modern economy. In this context, the objectives of the Projects were to:
(a) improve the quality of general education, through improvement of teacher
training, and provision of educational resource facilities and staff quarters
to help recruit and retain qualified teachers in hardship areas; (b) increase
the efficiency of educational management to ensure the feasibility and
sustainability of sectoral development, through staff development, research
and evaluation; and (c) expand access to better education to achieve the
highest level of equity in the distribution of educational resources,
through provision of primary and secondary schools, with priority given to
underprivileged areas, and boarding facilities for students who otherwise
could not benefit from secondary schooling (paras. 1.4 to 1.6).
Implementation Experience
ii.      The major variances between planned and actual implementation
affected:
(a) the scale of the following components: (1) under the First PSESP,
the school construction program was increased by 40%; the equipping
of rural primary schools was reduced by over 20%; and the provision
of Tamil and Chinese school library books was reduced to a relatively
small proportion, as compared with Indian and Chinese enrollments,
due to the limited availability and suitability of such books on the
market; and (2) the training programs for key educators and managers
under both Projects were increased from 8,000 to 18,500 participants
(para. 1.9).
(b) the First PSESP costs: these costs were overestimated at appraisal,
at a time when it was impossible to predict the steep recession into
which the economy was to slip, resulting in low construction prices,
and the favorable currency exchange rates in the mid-1980's. This



- iv -
resulted in about 15% cost underrun and the cancellation of US$17.8
million from the Loan (para. 1.10).
(c) the implementation period of both Projects: The First PSESP was
completed two and a half years behind schedule and closed 18 months
behind schedule. The Second PSESP, which benefited from the,
experience of the First PSESP, was virtually completed one year
behind schedule and closed on schedule (para. 1.11).
iii.     The scope and scale of both Projects combined were appropriate,
and the longer duration of project implementation was the result of:
(a) a combination of local conditions, difficult to forecast with
precision, which mostly affected the First PSESP, such as
contractors' default due to cash-flow problems; staffing constraints
and insufficient initial coordination between or within some
Government agencies; shortage of available sites; and the need for
revision of equipment lists due to adjustments brought to the new
curricula; and
(b) the phased implementation of additional programs, as the Projects
progressed, to make full use of undisbursed funds. This enabled
the Government to build substantially more schools and train a larger
number of key staff, without any risk of duplication, as original
Project targets were below the needs of the sector (para. 1.12).
Results
iv.      The Projects exceeded their physical implementation targets and met
most of their qualitative input objectives.  To improve the quality of
education (para. 1.15), the Projects provided three Teacher Training Colleges
(TTCs) with a total of 3,500 new places. Educational resources needed to
implement the new curricula were provided to 4,200 underprivileged rural
primary schools, 365 District Education Resource Centers (later renamed
Teachers' Activity Centers) and the four State Education Resource Centers.
However, the application of the Ministry of Education's (MOE) regulation
to equip only fully assisted schools- resulted in 1,200 non-fully assisted
rural schools2 not being equipped under the Projects.  A total of 11.8
million library books were provided to 7,000 schools, TTCs and Resource
Centers. Both Projects also provided about 1,400 staff quarters to
accommodate 4,500 qualified teachers mostly in hardship areas. At the same
time, MOE implemented new primary and secondary school curricula; produced
related textbooks and teacher's guides; and introduced a new testing system,
as planned. Teacher-class ratios were raised to the levels prescribed in MOE
regulations to provide teachers with sufficient time to discharge their new
assignments. Secondary schools were provided with special function teachers
Fully assisted schools are schools that are established and fully
maintained by the Government.
2/ Non-fully assisted schools are schools that receive full operating grants
and partial capital grants from the Government but whose land and buildings
are owned and maintained by a private board.



- v -
to take care of students in areas outside academic teaching. Academic
standards in secondary education were raised by increasing the number of
university graduate teachers in secondary schools. Teacher trainers'
qualifications were upgraded. However, difficulties are still experienced
in implementing the new pedagogical approaches, and concerns remain with
regard to persisting urban/rural gaps in students' achievements, and some
disappointing, or even deteriorating, primary education achievement test
scores. Moreover, over 20% of candidates failed the lower secondary
examination in 1992. This situation probably results from insufficient
remedial instruction for low achievers, overcrowding of facilities and double
shifting, discrepancies between the informal concepts of the curricula and the
still prevailing formal school culture, and subsequent teachers' difficulties
in teaching the new curricula.
v.       To increase the efficiency of educational management (paras. 1.16
and 1.17), about 18,500 key educators and managers benefited from Project
staff development programs. However, the training provided by local
universities did not meet all specific Project objectives. It is felt that
overall the program was instrumental in sensitizing key staff to major
sectoral issues, and preparing them for designing and implementing necessary
changes to the extent the current centralized, directive management system
will allow. The impact of the managerial and leadership orientation of the
programs has not yet been felt and it is proposed to evaluate this impact
through a collaborative team including MOE officers and external specialists,
to be identified by the MOE. Monitoring and evaluation of sectoral
development, and the Project Implementation Unit's capacity and procedures
were noticeably improved. Nine studies were carried out to refine the
analysis of major issues affecting quality, cost efficiency and equity in
education. The findings of the studies were utilized by MOE to plan its
activities, while universities used them in their research programs. However,
the studies did not strengthen national research capabilities as substantially
as expected. The originally planned efficiency measures (e.g., consolidation
of underenrolled schools, expansion of multigrade teaching, and reduction of
classroom areas for small classes) could not be successfully implemented.
This, compounding the Government's school staffing policy and low student-
teacher ratios, remains the prime cause of the high and increasing share of
education in the national recurrent budget and GNP, which overtime may
jeopardize the smooth and balanced development of the sector. The
Government's opinion is that the above efficiency measures are either
difficult to implement in the socio-political context of Malaysia or could be
detrimental to the quality of education. However, the MOE is taking measures,
such as alternate-year students' intake, to increase class sizes in small
schools and thereby make these schools more efficient.
vi.      To expand access to better education (para. 1.18), the most critical
classroom shortages were alleviated, and progress was made in improving equity
in the geographic distribution of facilities. The 5,141 classrooms in 571
primary schools, built under both Projects, benefited 240,000 students,
i.e., 9% of total primary enrollments, and contributed to maintaining
universal primary education. The 3,887 classrooms in 256 secondary schools
accommodated 210,000 students, i.e., 15% of secondary education enrollments.
This assisted the Government in its drive towards achieving universal lower
secondary education and raising the overall secondary enrollment ratio.
Boarding facilities were provided to 8,700 students who otherwise would have



- vi -
been beyond reach of secondary education. However, despite these efforts,
the shortage of school facilities remains acute, overcrowding still
detrimentally affects the quality of education, and double shifting still
restricts instruction time and generates commuting hardships.
Sustainability
vii.     The Projects per se are viable and sustainable:  both Projects
provided a total of 361,000 places accommodating about 450,000 students,
i.e., 11% of the 4,066,000 primary and secondary enrollments. Project-
financed boarding and staff housing facilities accommodated 6% of all
secondary boarders and 3.5% of all primary teachers.  Therefore, within the
whole education sector, the Projects generated relatively limited incremental
recurrent expenditures.  In addition, the strong institutional foundation
within the MOE ensures that it has the functional tools required to manage
the sector adequately (para. 1.19).
viii.    There is, however, a sustainability issue in relation to the
sector at large:  the share of education recurrent expenditures has reached
historically high levels as a result of the high student unit costs generated
mostly by staffing norms. High unit investment costs also originate from
current space and construction norms and practices. The above levels of
expenditures cannot continue to increase without question, as Government
revenue may be slowing down, and competing claims on education allocations
are growing, particularly for higher education (para. 1.20).
Maior Findings and Lessons Learned
ix.       Detailed project preparation, and initial agreement on clear
policies, plans of action and performance indicators are essential for
smoothly monitoring progress in implementing the diverse contents of sectoral
projects (para. 1.8).
x.       Major problems still affecting a preceding project should be fully
resolved before project components are replicated or expanded under a repeater
project. However, considerable practical guidance derived from the experience
of the First PSESP helped to alleviate the difficulties of the Second PSESP
(para. 1.8).
xi.      The strategy to implement the Projects under the highest MOE
authorities in collaboration with the central planning and financing agencies
ensured that the policy changes, which were the prime justification of the
Projects, were universally supported at the highest Government level; MOE's
implementation capacity was maximized by constant positive interaction among
all agencies; management structures and procedures were improved under the
pressure of Project requirements and all Government agencies' commitment to
progress in implementation and disbursement (para. 1.26b).
xii.     Greater attention should have been paid to general factors which bore
directly on project implementation, such as sectoral legislation on resource
allocation and the exceptional sensitivity of certain policies and sub-sectors
(para. 1.26c).



- vii -
xiii.    Whenever sectoral development at large constitutes the basic
justification of a project, the partnership between the Government and the
Bank should allow an open, constructive discussion of information on all
relevant activities, even though the Bank does not finance some of them
(para. 1.26g).
xiv.     Centralized authority finds an increasing difficulty in controlling
all sectoral activities and responding to the growing diversity of educational
needs. Greater flexibility and efficiency would probably result from greater
autonomy and accountability brought about by adequate decentralization and
empowerment of local authorities down to school level (para. 1.26h).






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
FIRST AND SECOND PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECTS
(LOANS 2685-MA AND 2987-MA)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Proiect Identity
Project Names:  Primary and Secondary Education Sector Project
(Eighth Education Loan)
Second Primary and Secondary Education Sector Project
(Tenth Education Loan)
Loan Numbers:   2685-MA
2987-MA
RVP Unit:        East Asia and the Pacific Region, Country Department I
Country:        Malaysia
Sector:         Education
Subsector:      Primary and Secondary Education
Proiect Background
1.1      Policy Context.  The New Economic Policy articulated in 1971 set
forth the development goals for the next twenty years as being accelerated
growth, eradication of poverty and restructuring of society so as to eliminate
regional inequalities and the connection between ethnic groups and economic
functions. This policy of growth with equity largely achieved its objectives
through growth in GNP, which averaged 7% per annum over the 1970-1990 period;
employment, which grew by over 3% annually; and reduction of poverty incidence
which declined from 49% of households to 17%. This was combined with social
programs to promote national identity and integration. Education played a
crucial role in this process and was always considered an integral part of the
wider national socio-economic policy. It was also recognized that expanding
and diversifying the manufacturing and services sectors towards high
technology could not be achieved if the education and training system could
not deliver the quantity and quality of manpower required.
1.2      Linkages between the Proiects and the Sector Policy.  The two
projects constituted the continuation of a chain of seven education projects,
started in 1969 (Table 3.1), and an attempt at widening the project approach
from a number of individual institutions to a whole education subsector.
In contrast to an earlier emphasis on meeting manpower needs through secondary
technical and vocational schools and a technical bias in general secondary
education, Bank assistance began, with the 1976 Fourth Education Project,
to adopt a sectoral approach tackling education and training in a more
comprehensive manner, and to finance direct preparation for employment through
specific industrial training projects with closer links to the profession.



- 2 -
While the Sixth and Seventh Education Projects addressed these technical
training needs at middle levels, and the Ninth Education Project at the
engineering level, the two Primary and Secondary Education Sector Projects
(PSESPs) represented overlapping investment slices of the Government's 10-year
general education development program (1986-95). The conceptualization of the
First PSESP started in 1984 when the Government was reexamining the
development of the education sector within the preparation of the Fifth
Malaysia Plan (1986-1990).
1.3      Sector Development Strategy.  The Government's strategy for the
development of general education was described in a ministerial Letter of
Policy dated March 5, 1986. The policy focused on improving the quality of
general education and producing trainable graduates with higher mental skills,
as required by modern economy; increasing the efficiency of educational
management to ensure the feasibility and sustainability of sectoral
development; and expanding access to better education to achieve the highest
level of equity in the distribution of educational resources.
Prolect Obiectives
1.4      Improve the Ouality of Education.  The First PSESP (Loan 2685-MA)
focussed on improving teacher training and providing educational resources to
primary schools and District Education Resource Centers (DERCs), later renamed
Teachers' Activity Centers, particularly in underprivileged rural areas, while
the Second PSESP (Loan 2987-MA) was to provide adequate physical facilities
for these DERCs. Both Projects would also provide new school facilities to
reduce critical double-shifting and overcrowding, and staff quarters to help
recruit and retain qualified teachers in hardship areas.
1.5      Increase the Efficiency of Educational Management.  Both Projects
were to finance staff development programs to fill urgently needed key
educators' and managers' positions in the Ministry of Education (MOE), the 13
State Education Departments (SEDs), the 113 District Education Offices (DEOs)
and schools; and help implement such efficiency measures as consolidation of
underenrolled schools; expansion of multigrade teaching; and development of
more cost efficient classroom size standards. Loan 2685-MA was also to
finance research and evaluation.
1.6      Expand Access to Better Education.  Both projects were to provide
new primary and secondary school facilities, with priority given to districts
where availability of adequate educational opportunities was below the
national average, and to replace critically dilapidated facilities. Boarding
facilities would also be provided, particularly to students who otherwise
could not benefit from secondary schooling.
Proiect Components
1.7      To improve the guality of education, Loan 2685-MA was to provide:
(a) three new Teacher Training Colleges (TTC); (b) eight million library books
for about 6,700 primary schools; and (c) audio-visual materials and equipment
for 5,400 rural primary schools and 350 DERCs, while Loan 2987-MA would
provide physical facilities for 295 DERCs. The two projects were also to
finance 500 and 290 staff quarters to accommodate 1,500 and 1,200 teachers,
respectively. To increase managerial efficiencv, the two Projects allowed for
the training of 540 trainers and 7,400 key educators and managers.  Loan 2685-



- 3-
MA would also finance nine studies on major sectoral issues with a view to
improving the Government's educational planning, monitoring, qualitative
assessment, and policy- and decision-making capabilities, and thereby
increasing efficiency in educational investments. To expand access to better
education, Loan 2685-MA would finance construction, equipping and furnishing
of about 3,300 classrooms in 330 schools (2,200 in 260 primary schools and
1,100 in 70 secondary schools). An additional 4,400 classrooms in 390 schools
(2,100 in 240 primary schools and 2,300 in 150 secondary schools) would be
provided under Loan 2987-MA. The two Projects would also provide 24 and 16
hostel units to accommodate 4,700 and 2,800 boarders, respectively.
Project Design and Organization
1.8      Institutional Base.  The Projects benefited from the experience
acquired through the seven previous projects. A competent and experienced
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was in operation within the regular
structure of the MOE Development and Supplies Division (DSD), the Educational
Planning and Research Division (EPRD) was an established and well-developed
policy-making, data gathering and processing, planning and decision-making
entity in the MOE, the Curriculum Development Center (CDC) was a highly
competent educational think-tank, and the MOE as a whole was well structured
and experienced in comprehensive sectoral development. This ensured a strong
institutional base allowing the adoption of a sector investment approach in
Bank lending, with greater flexibility in the use of funds within each Project
and between both Projects. The modulation of the various project components
according to their individual progress maximized MOE's overall implementation
capacity at all times, even though establishing priorities in the execution of
the two concurrently running Projects sometimes presented difficulties. For
example, construction operations under the Second PSESP did not start on
schedule because of the emphasis placed by MOE on completing the First PSESP
which was still affected by implementation difficulties. On the other hand,
a clear policy (para. 1.3) and a precise description of project components,
procedures, criteria and guidelines for project preparation and implementation
avoided imbalances in the distribution of Project funds and benefits, and made
implementation monitoring easier. The Projects were carefully prepared (para.
1.22) in close cooperation between the Government's central planning and
financial authorities- , the MOE and Bank staff. Within the regular
structure of MOE, under the Educational Planning Committee, the highest
policy-making and planning body for education, a Project Implementation
Committee was established, together with its Joint Secretariat, comprising
DSD and EPRD, and Appraisal/Implementation Sub-Committees in charge of the
respective Project components.
1.9      Modifications:  The following modifications mostly affected the First
PSESP:
(a) The scale of the school construction program was substantially
increased. The program exceeded appraisal targets (para. 1.7) by 40%
with a total of 4,626 classrooms built in 441 schools, including 337
The Economic Planning Unit of the Prime Minister's Department (EPU),
the highest policy-making and planning authority in the country, which
allocates investment budgets, and the Federal Treasury, which allocates
recurrent budgets.



- 4 -
primary schools (3,070 classrooms) and 104 secondary schools (1,556
classrooms), 32 boarding units to accommodate 5,900 students and
about 1,100 staff housing units to accommodate 3,300 teachers.
(b) While the original DERC equipment program was expanded, only 4,229
rural primary schools were equipped instead of the 5,400 originally
agreed, following /the MOE'S decision in late 1987 that only fully
assisted schools- could be equipped under the Project, according
to sectoral legislation. The resulting available balance of funds
was used to provide complementary equipment to about 1,700 schools
and also to DERCs from which non-fully assisted schools (mostly
Chinese- and Tamil-medium schools) could benefit.
(c) The MOE also decided to reduce the number of long-term advanced
degree fellowships abroad under Loan 2685-MA in order to increase
the number of short-term fellowships, and advanced degree courses
in local universities, as a more economical approach at a time of
economic recession. This resulted in 1,780 key staff being trained,
well above the 541 originally planned. While the Bank insisted on
not converting long-term fellowships abroad into too many short-term
fellowships, as it increased travel costs substantially, it agreed to
convert 31 out of 41 advanced degree fellowships abroad into 76 local
post-graduate fellowships, provided the contents of local university
courses, and staff's qualifications and availability of full-time
programs in the specific fields required, were adequate. As for
local short-term courses, the number of trainees quadrupled from 400
to about 1,600. Under Loan 2987-MA, efficient management resulted in
the outcomes of the program exceeding its original targets (about
16,700 beneficiaries, as compared to 7,400 originally planned), due
to the multiplier effect of the outreach programs set up by Institute
Aminuddin Baki (IAB), the national institute in charge of training
key educators and educational managers.
1.10     Evaluation of Proiect Design.  As a whole, the scope and scale of
the Projects combined were generally appropriate, and the implementation time
extension required was the result of a combination of local conditions,
difficult to forecast, which affected the First PSESP. While the assessment
of the Government's implementation capacity was overly cautious, project costs
under Loan 2685-MA were overestimated at appraisal, at a time when it was
impossible to predict the steep recession into which the economy was to slip,
resulting in lower construction market prices than anticipated at appraisal,
and the favorable currency exchange rates of the mid-1980's. As a result,
not only did the school construction program exceed its targets but US$17.8
million was cancelled from the Loan. Project costs and Project financing are
shown in Tables 3.5A and 3.5B, and 3.6A and 3.6B, respectively.
Project Implementation
1.11     Critical Variance in Project Implementation.  The major variances
between planned and actual implementation affected the scale of the First
PSESP (para. 1.9) and the implementation period of both Projects (Tables 3.4A
2/ For the definition of "fully-assisted" and "non-fully assisted" schools,
see footnotes 1/ and 2/, respectively, on page ii.



and 3.4B): the First PSESP was completed two and a half years behind schedule
and closed 18 months behind schedule. The situation greatly improved with the
Second PSESP which was virtually completed one year behind schedule and closed
on schedule, due to the considerable practical guidance derived from the
experience of the First PSESP (Tables 3.2A and 3.2B). The major delays
affected:
(a)  the construction of TTCs, the planned completion date of which was
June 1989. The Batu Pahat TTC could not be completed earlier than
May 1992, due to the default of the original contractor and the time-
consuming rebidding process to avoid the same risk. As for the Sri
Pinang TTC, it was completed only in December 1992, due to the change
of site; the need for the Public Works Department (PWD) to redesign
the TTC for the new site, and site development problems.
(b)  The school construction program under Loan 2685-MA was implemented in
two phases: Phase I corresponding to the originally planned program
(2,295 classrooms for primary education and 1,022 classrooms for
secondary schools), and Phase II including over 1,300 additional
classrooms (775 in primary and 534 in secondary schools), financed
with funds undisbursed under Phase I. The first phase was virtually
completed on schedule and the second phase was started in October
1988 in Peninsular Malaysia, where the program had run more smoothly.
Additional schools were included in the East Malaysia program in
mid-1989 to give Sabah and Sarawak, where project implementation was
slower, sufficient time to complete the original program. However,
on the original June 1991 Closing Date, school construction under
Phase I was still incomplete in East Malaysia, and a number of Phase
II schools were still under construction in Peninsular Malaysia as
well as in Sabah and Sarawak. On the December 31, 1992 Closing Date,
15 schools under the First PSESP and 28 under the Second PSESP were
still under construction, expected to be completed by the end of
1993.
(c)  TTC equipment lists under Loan 2685-MA, originally drafted in 1986,
had to be revised in mid-1989 to be consistent with the adjustments
brought to the new school curricula and related TTC training
objectives and programs. The final lists were completed by the MOE
Teacher Education Division (TED) in mid-1992. As the construction
completion dates of the three TTCs were well apart in time and no
storage facilities were available, procurement of equipment was
carried out separately rather than in bulk, as originally planned.
(d)  Procurement of library books. resource materials and school equipment
under Loan 2685-MA was planned to be completed by June 1989. The
book selection process was more time-consuming than originally
anticipated, as language level and cultural values had to be taken
into consideration, and teachers were brought from rural areas to
Kuala Lumpur to evaluate the proposed books. In addition, the
procurement of Chinese and Tamil books raised some problems: as
their availability on the local market and their suitability were
limited, few publishers were willing to supply these books at
acceptable prices, while imported books were not deemed suitable
within the context of Malaysian culture and curricula. As a result,
the proportion of Tamil and Chinese school library books was less



than 1% and 5%, respectively, of the total amount of books procured.
The procurement of books in the Malay Language (the National
Language) was completed in December 1989. Tamil books were delivered
in January 1991, and English and Chinese books in 1992. The
provision of teaching and audio-visual aids and equipment for schools
and Resource Centers (RCs) was delayed by a detailed study on the
most appropriate contents of the lists, in view of the adjustments
brought to the new curricula. It also took some time for the MOE to
decide on the use of undisbursed funds which eventually allowed
provision of library books to new schools, and direly needed
reference books and complementary equipment to TTCs, the four State
Education Resource Centers (SERCs) and DERCs. The last contracts
were signed in May 1992.
(e)  Of the nine studies which were planned to be completed by June 1989,
five were actually completed in late 1989, another three in mid-1990
and the last one in early 1991. Delays were due to research staff's
external commitments and investigation difficulties, as the studies
progressed.  Following the review of the findings of the studies in                v
February 1991, it was decided that remaining funds would be utilized
to carry out a school mapping exercise in Peninsular Malaysia along
the same successful lines as in East Malaysia. This exercise was
completed in June 1992.
(f) While the original staff development program under Loan 2685-MA was
virtually completed in June 1990, as scheduled, about 1,300
additional staff under the extended program (para. 1.9c) completed
their training in 1991 and 1992. Under Loan 2987- MA, completion of
10% of the local training program had to be postponed from December
1990 to mid-1991. However, the above delays made it possible to
expand the scale of both programs from 7,800 to about 18,300 key
staff trained locally and from about 160 to over 200 staff trained
abroad.
1.12     Implementation Evaluation.  The longer duration of project
implementation as a whole was the result of the phased implementation of
additional programs, as the Projects progressed, to make full use of
undisbursed funds, according to the sector approach (Tables 3.3A and 3.3B).
There was no risk of duplication in doing so, as original Project targets were
below the needs of the sector. The major delays originated from: (a)
contracting locally during acute economic recession, resulting in strong
competition and low bidding; cash-flow problems for contractors who could not
borrow money or obtain bonds; and critical shortages of qualified labor on a
number of sites. This could not be avoided in view of the many dispersed and
small school building contracts which could be handled only at the district
level; (b) staffing constraints in the federal PWD and the autonomous PWDs in
Sabah and Sarawak, and their administrative difficulty to hire consultants for
small contracts, however large the number of these contracts might be; (c)
technical and accounting staff constraints in the PIU, in view of the surge of
processing and control requirements relating to Bank-financed projects and
other externally-financed projects for which the PIU was also responsible;
(d) acute shortage of available and suitable sites; non-availability of funds
at the appropriate time for land purchase; and complicated land acquisition
procedures, compounded in Sabah and Sarawak by native land rights.



- 7 -
1.13     Proiect Risks.  The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) assessed the
greatest risks as: (a) investment and recurrent budgetary constraints, which
might affect the scale of the construction programs and the staffing required
to reduce the shortage of educational facilities, and implement the ambitious
reform of curricula; and (b) possible teachers' difficulties in carrying out
the additional professional burdens deriving from the new integrated
curricula, active student-centered teaching methods, and co-curricular
activities. Eventually, no financial constraints affected the Projects:
the Government exceeded the planned targets up to its highest physical
implementation capacity, and the number of teachers in the system reached the
planned figures. On the other hand, the second risk was real and difficulties
are still experienced in integrated subject teaching, implementing various
teaching methodologies, and carrying out the tasks required by the new
approach to class management, co-curricular activities and student testing.
However, the SAR did not forecast: (a) the extent of managerial constraints
resulting from shortages of professional staff, complicated administrative
procedures, slow inner working of, and insufficient coordination among, MOE
divisions and other government agencies involved in technical, financial and
auditing operations; (b) the limited capabilities and relevance of local
universities in relation to specific Project requirements; (c) the difficulty
to implement cost-efficiency measures (para. 1.16b); and (d) the ultimate
outcome of the Government's school staffing policy (paras. 1.15f and g) and
resulting low student-teacher ratios (para. 1.20a).
1.14     Government's Actions Taken or not Taken which Affected the Projects:
(a) The application of MOE's regulation to equip only fully assisted
schools fesulted in about 1,200 non-fully assisted rural primary
schools- not being equipped under Loan 2685-MA (para. 1.9b).
(b) Inadequate assessment and monitoring of local universities'
capabilities and assignments account for the limited usefulness of
some studies (para. 1.17), and the staff development programs not
meeting the specific Project objectives (para. 1.31). However, a
positive outcome was that the staff development exercise strengthened
local post-graduate programs.
(c) The cost-efficiency measures originally envisaged to alleviate the
fiscal burden of the education reform (para. 1.16b) were limited
(e.g., expansion of multigrade teaching, consolidation of
uneconomical underenrolled schools, adoption of alternative classroom
designs for classes below 40 students), or not implemented (e.g.,
adjustment of school staffing norms to increase the student-teacher
ratios). This remains the prime cause of the high and increasing
share of education in the national recurrent budget and GNP, which
over time may jeopardize the smooth and balanced development of the
sector (para. 1.20).
(d) Project implementation in the later years was improved through the
availability of funds provided by EPU for the systematic acquisition
of sites in advance of future projects; more stringent selection of
3/ For the definition of "fully-assisted" and "non-fully assisted" schools,
see footnotes 1/ and 2/, respectively, on page ii.



- 8-
contractors; more flexible payment conditions; rationalization of the
collection and processing of payment vouchers; and appointment of
qualified permanent accounting and technical staff within the PIU.
This enabled the PIU to process Project finances more expeditiously,
and follow up technical and payment issues in the field more
efficiently. Improvement in PIU's staffing, equipping and procedures
was a major institution building achievement.
Maior Results and Benefits of the Proiects
1.15     The Projects exceeded their physical implementation targets and met
most of their qualitative input targets (Table 3.7A). However, a number of
sectoral policy objectives stipulated in the agreed plans of action and
performance indicators of the Projects could not be reached. With regard to
improving the quality of education, Project achievements were as follows:
(a)  The three new TTCs, built under Loan 2685-MA, provided about 3,500
new student places, as planned. This contributed to increasing the
teacher training capacity to cope with the natural enrollment
increase, upgrade academically qualified teachers without
professional certification, introduce qualified teachers to the new
curricula and teaching methods, and replace inadequate training
facilities. In 1992, there were 23 TTCs in Peninsular Malaysia, four
in Sabah and three in Sarawak. These 30 TTCs have a total capacity
of 28,400 places and over 60% of the trainees are boarders. This
capacity currently allows an annual output of 10,500 new teachers,
as planned, including 8,000 new primary teachers, 1,000 non-graduate
lower secondary teachers and 1,500 graduate secondary teachers.
TTCs also provide 2,700 annual participants with in-service training
programs focusing on the new curricula and teaching methodol}gy.
In addition, six universities enroll 6,400 teacher trainees- , with
an annual output of about 2,200 graduates over recent years. The MOE
feels that the above outputs may be insufficient to cope with future
pre- and in-service teacher training needs. However, a cautious
approach is required in view of the declining growth rate in primary
enrollments; the slow growth of lower secondary enrollments in public
schools; and the high recurrent unit costs of education, due to low
student-teacher ratios. A reassessment of teacher training needs is
underway.
(b)  To provide teachers with the educational resources needed to help
them implement the new curricula, under Loan 2685-MA, over 4,200
underprivileged rural primary schools, 365 DERCs and the four SERCs
were equipped. A total of 7,000 schools were provided with 11.8
million library books, and reference books were also provided to
TTCs, IAB, DERCs and SERCs. The program was successful overall,
although the planned books-primary student ratio of 5:1 was not
reached, and problems remained with regard to equipping about 1,200
non-fully assisted rural primary schools (para. 1.14a) and providing
Chinese and Tamil library books (para. l.lld). Under Loan 2987-MA,
4/ Including 1,700 first degree holders preparing a Post Graduate Diploma in
Education (PGDE) and 4,700 students preparing a Bachelor of Arts/Science
with Education Degree.



- 9 -
new facilities for 295 DERCs were built, as planned. The utilization
of resource centers, a relatively recent institution in Malaysia, has
had a slow start. However, continued and widely disseminated staff
training is gradually producing the critical mass of familiarity
needed to make investments on instructional aids and equipment more
pedagogically productive in the future.
(c) In order to retain qualified teachers in hardship areas by improving
their living conditions, both Projects provided a total of about
1,400 staff guarters to accommodate 4,500 staff. In 1992, a total of
15,400 staff quarters accommodated 20,000 teachers, including 13,200
primary teachers (in 9,800 housing units) and 6,800 secondary
teachers (in 5,600 units). This represented 10% and 9% of all
primary and secondary teaching staff, respectively. However, about
9% of Project staff quarters are reported to be currently utilized as
libraries, school RCs and teachers' rooms, as they were unoccupied
because of the urbanization process and economic development which
offered a greater supply and a better choice of housing in some
areas.
(d) While the Projects were being implemented, new curricula covering the
11 years of primary and secondary education were implemented grade by
grade starting in 1983. They reinforce basic communication and
mathematical skills and include integrated environment-focused
general science subjects, and practical living skills (commercial
practice, manipulative skills, family living skills and basic
agricultural knowledge), and community-oriented co-curricular
activities. The new primary school curriculum (KBSR) was fully
implemented in 1989 and the new secondary school curriculum (KBSM)
for lower secondary education, including its innovative living skills
component, in 1992. The KBSM will be fully implemented in 1993 in
upper secondary education, including its humanities, vocational and
technological, scientific, and religious electives, as planned.
Related textbooks and teacher's guides were produced. The Government
expanded the textbook loan scheme proportionately to the increase in
primary and secondary school population. Over 90% of this school
population benefits from the scheme, which provides about eight
million books annually, at a cost of US$25 million equivalent.
School-based assessment and a national primary school achievement
test (UPSR) were introduced. Practical implementation of the new
curricula, and related textbooks and guides were evaluated and
revised on a continuing basis through EPRD, CDC and the Federal
Inspectorate.
(e) Teacher training curricula and related equipment and materials in
TTCs and Faculties of Education were modified to meet the
requirements of the new school curricula, with particular regard to
improving resourcefulness, strengthening student-centered classroom
management, use of educational technology, evaluation skills and
teaching techniques for integrated subjects, and multigrade and
remedial instruction.
(f) Secondary schools were provided with special function teachers to
take care of students in areas outside academic teaching, as planned.
In 1992, for 1,395 secondary schools, there was a total of 8,001



- 10 -
special function teachers (as compared with 5,509 in 1986). The most
noticeable increases related to guidance and counselling, sports,
media, library and students' welfare. Moreover, in 1992, two new
academic special functions were introduced, namely senior subject
teachers (6,997) and senior co-curriculum teachers (378). This
sharply increased the total number of special function teachers to
15,375.
(g) The primary teacher-class ratio was raised from 1.2:1 to 1.5:1,
as prescribed in the MOE regulations to provide teachers with
sufficient time to prepare and discharge their new curricular
assignments. However, if special function teachers are taken into
account, the ratio reached 1.72:1 in regular schools, and 1.64:1 if
underenrolled schools (with enrollments below 150 students) are taken
into consideration. These ratios are the major cause of the high and
rising education recurrent expenditures (para. 1.20). The ratios
could be improved by reducing the number of special function
teachers, staffing underenrolled schools on the basis of their
enrollments rather than in accordance with the standard staff
allocation, and promoting multigrade teaching to obtain cost-
efficient class sizes in the 2,500 underenrolled schools. Moreover,
to reach the prescribed primary staffing level, a rather high
proportion of untrained teachers had to be hired. MOE currently
estimates that 22,000 primary and 8,000 secondary unqualified
teachers need to be replaced. In secondary education, the ratio is
1.8:1, or 1.9:1 if special function teachers are taken into
consideration.
(h) Academic standards in secondary education were raised by increasing
the number of university graduate teachers in secondary schools from
about 18,500 in 1986 to 34,000 in 1992. This increased their
proportion among the secondary school teaching staff from about 32%
to 43% (23% and 77% in lower or upper secondary classes,
respectively).
(i) Teacher trainers' qualifications were upgraded, as planned. In 1992,
out of 2,687 trainers, 2,204 were graduates (i.e., 82%, as compared
with 63% in 1986) and post-graduates represented 12% of TTC staff,
including six PhDs and 326 MA degree holders. The remaining non-
graduates were attending specialized in-service courses and 54 of
them were pursuing first degree and post-graduate programs. New
trainers are recruited among graduates.
(j) The objective not to exceed 45 students per class in 1990 could not
be reached, although relative progress was made in reducing the
proportion of overcrowded classes: in 1992, classes with enrollments
exceeding 40 represented 29% and 14% of the total number of primary
and secondary classes, respectively, as compared with 33% and 23% in
1986. However, overcrowded primary classes increased in absolute
numbers from about 22,400 to 23,200, of which 9,000 exceeded 45
students. This reflected a dramatic increase, as compared with 6,000
in 1986, and only minor progress as compared with the peak of 9,400
in 1989. Moreover, classes of 45+ still represented 11% of all
primary classes and the proportion was even higher in Sarawak (15%)
and in Sabah (16%). The most noticeable progress was made in



- 11 -
secondary education, with the number of overcrowded classes being
reduced from 8,600 in 1986 to 6,000 (14% of all classes, as compared
with 23% in 1986). In addition, the 1,239 classes of 45+ students
represented only 3% of all secondary classes and compared well with
the 1,600 in 1989. However, the proportion was still overly high in
Sabah (33% for classes above 40 students and 15% above 45).
(k) In 1992, double shifting still restricted instruction time and
generated commuting hardships. The situation was serious overall and
critical in secondary education. In primary education, the number of
classes detrimentally affected by double shifting increased from
11,300 to 13,200 (17% of all classes), almost exclusively in
Peninsular Malaysia and Sabah (the numbers were negligible in
Sarawak). In secondary education, although the number of classes
affected was slightly reduced from 11,700 to 10,500, this still
represented an abnormally high proportion (25% of all classes).
The situation was still more critical in Sabah (36%).
(1) Despite the above substantial inputs to improve the quality and
efficiency of education, major concerns remain with regard to the
persisting urban/rural gap in students' achievements, and the
generally low, or even deteriorating, achievement test scores in
mathematics, English and National Language in primary education
(Table 3.7B). However, the rising trend of the average pass rate at
the end of lower secondary education (78% in 1992, the first year
when the KBSM was fully implemented) is a positive development at a
time when the Government heads for universal upper secondary
education and has embarked on accelerated promotion from lower to
upper secondary education on the basis of an achievement test which
replaces the selective national lower secondary school certificate
(SRP). The repetition rate is minimal due to automatic promotion
over the 9-year primary and lower secondary cycle. However, over 20%
of candidates failed the SRP in 1992 (although the first KBSR cohort
to take the SRP has shown some improvement). This situation probably
results from insufficient remedial instruction for low achievers,
overcrowding of facilities and double shifting, discrepancies between
the informal concepts of the new curricula and the still prevailing
formal examination-oriented school culture, and the subsequent
difficulties for teachers with insufficient practical qualifications
to teach the new curricula.
1.16     To increase the efficiency of educational management, the Projects
contributed the following:
(a) Under Loan 2685-MA, a staff development program was offered to 1,780
key education officers, including: (i) about 900 teachers and
headmasters, trained as educational leaders and trainers in schools
and RCs, and (ii) about 900 senior educators and managerial staff at
State and MOE levels. All programs were provided by IAB, except for
post-graduate courses which were offered in local and foreign
universities. Under Loan 2987-MA, an additional 16,700 senior
officers, school principals, advisors, teacher trainers, master
teachers and resource staff benefited from the training program. The
training of trainers and advisors helped IAB not only to improve its
in-house programs but also to create a multiplier effect and



- 12 -
disseminate staff development down to school level through a network
of outreach courses. It is felt that the program was instrumental in
sensitizing key staff to educational, cost efficiency and managerial
issues, and preparing them for designing and implementing necessary
changes and innovations to the extent the current centralized,
directive management system will allow. However, the impact of the
managerial and leadership orientation of the programs has not yet
been felt, and a number of questions have been raised regarding such
impact which will be evaluated by a collaborative team including MOE
officers and external specialists, to be identified by the MOE. It
should also be noted that 30% of fellowships for advanced degrees
were awarded to women. This was a positive development in view of
the prevailing family roles of women in Malaysian society.
(b) With regard to sectoral policy, the following planned efficiency
measures could not be successfully implemented: (i) The number of
underenrolled schools remained at about 2,500 and their average class
size was 15.5, below the 1986 figure; (ii) multigrade teaching was
practiced in 738 schools only (29% of all underenrolled schools, as
compared with the planned 60%); and (iii) designs of reduced
classroom size for small classes were used in only 23 schools and
the protracted study on the educational impact of classroom size
reduction has not yet produced conclusive findings. This and the
need felt by the Government to maintain the present teacher-class
ratios have resulted in the relatively low cost efficiency of the
Malaysian education system (para. 1.20).
(c) However, monitoring and evaluation of education was noticeably
improved, as anticipated. EPRD established procedures and indicators
to assess educational inputs and students' achievements, and
developed an efficient statistical collection and processing system.
This enabled EPRD to produce high quality annual evaluation reports
and statistical yearbooks, and provided the data required for
planning, decision making and policy implementation monitoring.
Thus, as the Project progressed, the distribution of educational
facilities by district, as compared with classes and enrollments, and
the changing position of individual districts in relation to national
averages, were monitored annually, and adjustments in allocating
Project resources could be made, as required, to alleviate the most
critical shortages and achieve greater equity. This was a major
institutional building achievement.
1.17     Under Loan 2685-MA, five research and four evaluation studies were
carried out to refine the analysis of major issues affecting quality, cost
efficiency and equity in education (para. l.lle). The studies were originally
intended to constitute the starting block of a continuing assessment system
through periodical updates. However, MOE felt that some studies were based on
a limited number of opinions rather than objective primary data collected and
processed with adequate analytical tools, although many of their findings and
conclusions were pertinent and worth considering. The findings of the studies
were discussed among high level MOE officials and headmasters during a
national seminar. Many of the findings were utilized by MOE in planning its
activities and preparing reports, while universities used these findings in
their research programs. There were follow-ups to some studies in the fields
of teacher attributes by the Teachers' Education Division (TED), tracer



- 13 -
studies by the Technical and Vocational Education Division, and school mapping
by EPRD. However, the studies did not strengthen national research
capabilities as substantially as expected (Table 3.7C).
1.18     To expand access to better education, the Projects inputs were as
follows:
(a) A total of 9,028 classrooms in 827 schools were built under both
Projects, including 5,141 classrooms in 571 primary schools and 3,887
classrooms in 256 secondary schools. This respectively provided
about 206,000 and 155,000 places which benefited an estimated 240,000
primary and 210,000 secondary students (taking double shifting into
consideration), i.e., 9% of primary and 15% of secondary enrollments.
(b) Boarding facilities were provided to 8,740 students under both
Projects. In 1992, a total of 51,400 primary and 159,600 secondary
students were boarders, i.e., 2% and 11% of primary and secondary
enrollments, respectively, as planned. Boarding units were
established mainly in rural schools to expand school catchment areas
and in some urban schools to accommodate out-of-town students who
otherwise would have been beyond reach of secondary education
facilities.
(c) These inputs contributed to alleviating the most critical classroom
shortages and improving equity in the geographic distribution of
facilities. The most significant improvement occurred in Sarawak,
with the most underprivileged districts still located in Sabah and
Peninsular Malaysia. Universal primarv education was maintained, as
planned, with 2,641,000 students enrolled in public primary schools
in 1992. Between 1986 and 1992, there was little progress in the
overall classroom-students ratio which improved from 1:40 to 1:39.
If underenrolled schools are excluded, the ratio was lower (1:43) in
regular schools. However, equity improved, as 24 districts, out of a
total of 113, were below the national average in 1992, as compared
with 39 in 1986. The classroom-class ratio also increased slightly,
from 84% to 85%, with 35 districts (instead of 51) below the national
average. Secondary education was expanded: in 1992, there were
1,424,700 secondary education enrollments (73% of the relevant age-
group), of which 983,300 were in lower and 441,400 in upper secondary
education, representing respective enrollment ratios of 82% and 58%.
This was below the planned targets to enroll 1.0 million lower
secondary and 500,000 upper secondary students in 1990, in order to
reach a 92% enrollment ratio, with a view to achieving universal
lower secondary education in 1995, and raise the overall public
secondary enrollment ratio from 72% in 1986 to 77% in 1990.
Moreover, while upper secondary enrollments increased noticeably by
over 20% from 366,000 in 1986, the growth of lower secondary
enrollments was a modest 5%, as compared with its 935,000 level in
1986. This may be partly attributed to the competition of private
schools. The classroom-student ratio improved from 1:52 in 1986 to
1:44, and 43 districts were below the national average in 1992, as
compared with 56 in 1986. The classroom-class ratio rose from 70% to
75%, with 48 districts (instead of 57) below the national average.
However, despite this effort, the shortage of school facilities
remains acute, as indicated by the above ratios. This results in



- 14 -
overcrowding still detrimentally affecting the quality of education,
and double shifting still restricting instruction time and generating
commuting hardships (paras. 1.15j and k).
Proiect Sustainability
1.19     The Projects.  The Projects per se are viable and sustainable:  both
Projects provided a total of 361,000 places accommodating about 450,000
students, i.e., 11% of total primary and secondary enrollments (4,066,000).
Project-financed boarding and staff housing facilities accommodated about 6%
of all secondary boarders and 3.5% of all primary teachers, respectively.
Therefore, within the whole education sector, the Projects generated
relatively limited incremental recurrent expenditures. In addition, the
sequence of Bank-financed projects since 1969 and both Projects, in
particular, have established a strong institutional foundation within the MOE
(para. 1.8): with EPRD for policy- and decision-making, planning and
monitoring functions; DSD/PIU for programming and physical implementation; CDC
for improving the substance and methodology of education; and IAB and the
teacher training network for teacher and manager training and upgrading. This
ensures that MOE possesses the functional tools required to manage the sector
adequately.
1.20     The Sector.  There is, however, a sustainability issue in relation to
the sector at large which results from policies, and overly generalized norms
and standards:
(a) The shares of education in the recurrent and total national budgets
have reached 20.1% and 18.1%, respectively, and about 6% of GNP.
This is high, considering that universalization of lower secondary
education is still at a distance (para. 1.18), and that the 58% upper
secondary enrollment ratio and the current development of higher
education are still insufficient to provide the quantity and type of
labor currently required by the economy. This results from the high
student unit costs of education which are 25% above the overall
average for 15 Asian countries5/, and 39%, 12% and 24% above for
primary, secondary and higher education, respectively. These high
unit costs are mainly due to staffing norms, such as the 1.7:1
primary teacher-class ratio (para. 1.15g) or the assignment of three
non-teaching staff even in small schools, resulting in low student-
teacher ratios (20:1 iT primary education overall and 12:1 in
underenrolled schools- , and 18:1 in secondary education). The
tendency for primary teachers to specialize in subject teaching and
to teach in the same grade for years also accounts for wide
variations in actual teaching workloads. In secondary education,
residential and vocational schools and junior science colleges are
estimated to cost about four times as much as general schools and
they account for 35% of upper secondary education recurrent
expenditures, although they enroll only 9% of upper secondary
students. The rising trend of education recurrent expenditures is
5/ Mingat and Tan, Educational Development in Asia, October 1989.
6/ As a comparison, the average primary student-teacher ratio was 33:1 in 15
Asian countries and 24:1 in 26 upper middle-income countries in 1989.



- 15 -
still more concerning: during the 1988-90 period, the number of
teachers in primary and secondary education increased faster (about
10% and 12%, respectively) than enrollments (about 5% and 1%).
Between 1990 and 1992, primary and secondary education unit costs
increased by over 30%, largely due to salary increases; education
recurrent expenditures increased faster than national recurrent
expendituresj,and the 1992 budget was 38% higher than actual 1990
expenditures- .
(b) High unit investment costs also originate from a general tendency to
build new facilities rather than remodel and expand existing ones;
space and construction norms (e.g., standard 750 square-foot
classrooms, even for classes below 40 students, instead of the
generally accepted 600 sq. ft.), and facility utilization (i.e.,
the use of secondary school facilities on a fixed, as opposed to
rotating, classroom-class basis). A significant reduction of
critical overcrowding and double-shifting, which would require an
estimated 20,000 additional classrooms, demands more cost-efficient
norms and practices. The above levels of expenditures cannot
continue to increase without question, as Government revenue may be
slowing down, and competing claims on education allocations are
growing, particularly for higher education.
Bank's Performance
1.21     Strengths and Weaknesses.  The Bank was instrumental in the overall
success of the Projects through close and dynamic operational relationships
and advice focussing on substantive educational and managerial issues as well
as physical and financial issues. Bank staff were greatly helped in the
knowledge of the sector by the sequence of projects since 1969. In addition,
the unusual fact that the same Task Manager and Legal Officer were in charge
of the Projects throughout their whole implementation period ensured deeper
appreciation of sensitive issues and continuity in relationships, which helped
build up a high level of mutual trust. However, disbursement problems would
have been alleviated more efficiently with greater clarity and coordination in
the signals given by the Bank regarding its procedures and requirements.
1.22     Proiect Preparation.  Loan 2685-MA took a rather long time (nine
missions and 122 staff-weeks) to be prepared, over a period of about three
years, as it was the first attempt at the sector approach in education
development in Malaysia. This time was required to ensure full understanding
of, and compliance with, the specific definitions, procedures and
requirements, about which clarifications were still needed within the Bank
itself. As for overestimated project costs at appraisal, they can be
accounted for by the need to be cautious at a time when the economy was
particularly unstable (para. 1.10). In comparison, only five missions and 70
staff-weeks, over a period of two years, were necessary to prepare Loan 2987-
MA, following the lessons learned from the implementation of Loan 2685-MA
(Tables 3.9A and 3.9B).
7/ Past Trends and Future Options for Education Expenditure, Annex 3, Staff
Appraisal Report, Third Primary and Secondary Education Sector Project
(Loan 3536-MA), The World Bank, November 9, 1992.



- 16 -
1.23     Project Supervision.   Monitoring progress in implementing the
Projects was facilitated by adherence throughout the implementation period to
initial agreements on a clear sectoral development policy (para. 1.8), a
practical format for supervision and Government's review reports, and precise
performance monitoring indicators. There were 13 review missions (about 70
staff-weeks) over a period of six years for Loan 2685-MA, and seven review
missions (45 staff-weeks) over a period of three and a half years for Loan
2987-MA (Tables 3.10A and 3.10B). Bank implementation reviews were generally
regular (every six months), in accordance with the Loan Agreement, and
synchronized with PIU's and EPRD's annual reporting agenda. Their skill mix
was generally adequate to carry out supervision tasks. Every other mission
was an in-depth review mission analyzing the status of the quality of
education, annual education statistics and examinations results as well as
physical and financial progress. Review missions for both Projects were
combined and supervision was carried out jointly with preparation of oncoming
projects. This increased the missions' cost-efficiency, and ensured close
coordination of Bank sectoral operations and their adherence to a common set
of objectives. Implementation performance was improved, except for cost-
efficiency measures, by the formative assessment of constraints and sustained
pressure by Bank missions for Government's appropriate action to resolve
critical issues. Review missions always prepared detailed aide-memoires which
were discussed in-depth during wrap-up meetings in the field, and follow-up
letters, upon return to Headquarters.
Borrower's Performance
1.24     Education has always been considered as a top priority for socio-
economic development in Malaysia (para. 1.1) and the Projects were part and
parcel of the national education development policy. Therefore, the
Government continuously demonstrated strong commitment and support to the
Projects, as reflected in the priority given to the Projects for the
mobilization of resources within the MOE and other Government agencies
involved. In terms of finance, once a budget is approved by the Parliament,
the necessary liquidities are made available to the executing ministries, as
required, within the approved limits. Full integration of the Projects within
this budgetary system ensured adequate funding at all times. It should be
noted that, under these conditions, Special Accounts were useless and even
added cumbersome administrative procedures, as demonstrated under Loan 2685-
MA. However, the Bank kept insisting on the necessity to establish a Special
Account for Loan 2987-MA and agreed later that this requirement could be
waived from the Loan Agreement. In terms of staffing, the Treasury and the
Public Service Department appointed the additional permanent qualified
technical and accounting staff required for the PIU to improve disbursements.
In Sabah and Sarawak, trouble-shooting intersectoral committees were
established at the highest level of local government to come to grips with
specific local site acquisition, procurement and disbursement problems.
Implementation review reports were carefully prepared by PIU and MOE Project
Sub-Committees (para. 1.8), and contributed to improving Bank missions'
efficiency. Supervision wrap-up meetings, chaired by EPU or Treasury, were
always attended by higher level officials from the major Government agencies
(EPU, Treasury, PWD, Public Service Department, Auditor General's Office,
Accountant General's Office). This gave the representatives from the various
agencies an opportunity to engage in candid discussions on major issues, with
a view to taking appropriate action. The Government sent to the Bank detailed



- 17 -
comments and amendments to mission aide-memoires and follow-up letters,
demonstrating deep commitment to the success of the Projects.
1.25     Major Loan covenants were complied with (Tables 3.8A and 3.8B).
However, there were difficulties in the following areas: (a) interaction
between the MOE and the universities, in relation to the studies and the staff
development program, was insufficiently structured and collaborative; (b)
there were substantial delays in submitting audit reports; and (c) protracted
delays in collection and processing of perforated vouchers, required by the
Bank as appropriate proof of payment for expenditures under statements of
expenditures, resulted in disbursement losses. Most of these deficiencies
were the result of staff shortages and limitation of skills, inadequate
managerial structures and processing, and insufficient information systems.
These difficulties were only alleviated in the last year of project
implementation.
Findings and Lessons Learned
1.26     The following lessons learned from the implementation of the Projects
were taken into consideration for the preparation of the Third Primary and
Secondary Education Sector Project (Loan 3536-MA):
(a) Detailed project preparation and initial agreement on clear policies,
plans of action and performance indicators are essential for smooth
monitoring and formative assessment of progress in implementing the
highly diverse components of sectoral projects. For repeater
projects, such as the Second PSESP, the temptation should be avoided
to replicate a number of components without fully resolving major
problems still prevailing under the preceding project (para. 1.8).
(b) The strategy to implement, monitor and evaluate the Projects under
the highest MOE authority in collaboration with the Prime Minister's
Department, Treasury and PWD was highly positive as (i) educational
policy changes, which constituted the prime justification of the
Projects, were universally supported at the highest Government level,
(ii) MOE's planning, decision-making, financing, monitoring,
evaluation and coordination functions were reinforced and its
implementation capacity was maximized by constant interaction,
consensus and assistance among all agencies, which was a noticeable
institutional development achievement, and (iii) management
structures and procedures were improved under the pressure of Project
requirements and all Government agencies' commitment to progress in
implementation and disbursement (para. 1.8).
(c) Greater attention should have been paid to general factors which bear
directly on project implementation, such as sectoral legislation on
public resource allocation to the various types of schools (para.
1.14a), the high sensitivity of any matter pertaining to higher
education, which resulted in the MOE deeming inappropriate and
unnecessary for Bank missions to have direct access to university
staff involved in Project-financed studies and training programs
(para. 1.31), specific problems relating to conformity of Chinese and
Tamil literature for school libraries with the national education
philosophy (para. l.lld), and criteria for selection of major



- 18 -
fellowship recipients to improve the balance between gender and
ethnic groups.
(d) The preparation of terms of reference for sectoral studies should
have included methodology guidelines following consultation between
the client and the supplier of research services, as well as precise
and objective review mechanisms. The studies have shown that
research staff development is still needed in sophisticated research
and measurement techniques, and in the specific fields covered by the
studies (paras. 1.17 and 1.31).
(e) Institutional relationships between local and reputable overseas
educational institutions should have been tapped to a greater extent
for research studies and staff development abroad or locally.
Twinning arrangements could have improved the quality of studies and
staff development in local universities through greater continuity in
objective advice and professional cooperation (para. 1.29).
(f) Inclusion of a financial analyst in Bank review missions might have
allowed earlier detection of the growth of education unit costs and
budgets, and might have had a greater influence on the Government to
address underlying causes (para. 1.20). Under the Third PSESP, the
MOE will strengthen its financial and economic analysis capabilities
and work more closely with the Treasury to achieve efficiency gains
while enhancing quality. The skill composition of Bank missions will
support this process.
(g) While both PSESPs contributed to institutional strengthening and
capacity expansion, the Bank was not directly involved in the design
of quality components and did not have easy access to related data.
Therefore, its "value-added" was not as high as it could have been at
a time when learning outcomes were disappointing (para. 1.151). For
instance, successful implementation of the new curricula was the
basic educational justification for both Projects and, therefore,
required careful Bank scrutiny. However, as curriculum development
was not financed by the Bank, it was not considered by the Government
as part and parcel of the Projects. This misunderstanding led to
virtually denying Bank missions direct access to researchers and
their assessment of curriculum implementation. With "Vision 2020"
placing new qualitative and managerial demands on the sector, future
operations should reflect an improved balance between hardware and
software, and the partnership between the Government and the Bank
should allow an open, constructive discussion of information relevant
to all sectoral objectives, irrespective of the source of funding.
(h) Two characteristics of the Malaysian education system have been its
centralized nature and high.cost. As the country enters the
transition to New Industrialized Country (NIC) status, greater
flexibility and efficiency will be increasingly critical to achieving
the growth and equity objectives of the system. To respond to the
specific educational needs of vastly different rural and urban school
populations and to adjust the skills output to rapidly changing
technology, greater autonomy and accountability will be needed at all
levels. Greater empowerment of local authorities, down to the school
level, within broad national guidelines oriented towards cost-



- 19 -
efficient and educationally creative initiatives, might be highly
beneficial in this respect. The Third PSESP will address these
issues through improving the Management Information System, promoting
innovation and research, independent evaluation of staff development
programs, and an organization and management assessment of DSD. To
contain the growth of government spending on education, it is
proposed to study combined public and private interventions, keep
spending norms under scrutiny and define possible spending targets.
(i)  Increased flexibility and greater attention to efficiency imply a
shift in performance monitoring away from inputs towards resource
allocation and outcomes, to determine which approaches are most
pedagogically effective and financially affordable, and to measure
the ultimate impact of projects. The Third PSESP proposes a set of
indicators linking inputs, costs and outputs to guide decision and
policy making, and some micro-level monitoring. Such a system might
place Malaysia at the cutting edge of educational management.
(j)  The bi-annual MOE-focused review format brought limited support for
implementation of educational recommendations in schools (e.g., the
practice of multigrade teaching), which could have made an impact on
efficiency. The Third PSESP is expected to offer MOE and Bank staff
greater opportunities for educational interaction and demonstration
in the field.
Project Relationship
1.27     Government and Bank staff had excellent personal and professional
relationships at all times. EPU, Treasury and MOE staff had considerable
experience over more than two decades in dealing with the Bank. Relationships
were open and amiable, even when differences occurred about policies and
issues of a sensitive nature. Mutual trust often helped in exchanging
sensitive information, as required to better appreciate problems. Unbroken
continuity in the relationships between key Bank staff (para. 1.21) and
Government higher level officials were positive factors in Project
implementation. The only difficulties of communication which occurred at
times were due to MOE and Bank missions' staff turn-over.
Consulting Services
1.28     Architectural and engineering services were provided by PWD which is
responsible for public construction. The quality of designs for the TTCs was
satisfactory, although delays resulted from staff shortages. For schools,
architectural services were limited, as standard designs were used. These
designs, successfully utilized for previous projects, were appropriately
adjusted. PWD supervisory services, including collection of payment vouchers
from contractors, were often insufficient for such a widely dispersed school
construction program. However, after initial delays, private consultants
could be hired by PWD to assist with project implementation.
1.29     Foreign high level specialists from reputable universities and
specialized agencies overseas assisted IAB with its training courses for key
educators in specific fields and education managers under Loan 2685-MA. The
role of the foreign consultants was significant in establishing linkages with



- 20 -
foreign institutions and constructive interaction with the local faculty,
developing training courses, and expanding the training network (para. 1.16a).
1.30     Overseas training was also contracted with universities and
specialized agencies of high repute. The specialized training programs, not
available in Malaysia, covered the whole gamut of major topics relevant to the
educational and managerial skills required. The outcomes were satisfactory to
the beneficiaries. However, given the cost of the program, an impact
evaluation is planned as a basis for further improvement.
1.31     The studies and post-graduate training programs contracted with local
universities were generally disappointing (para. 1.14b) with regard to timely
programming, availability of qualified and fully committed staff, and
relevance of training programs to Project objectives. This resulted from
insufficient identification of researchers and trainers available for the
specific tasks required, and inadequate preparation of the work agenda,
methodology, reporting and review mechanisms. Bank staff's limited contacts
with researchers and trainers (para. 1.26c) precluded sustained and open
discussions on work processes, the findings of the studies, and training
program contents and outcomes.
Project Documentation and Data
1.32     Adequacy of SAR and Major Papers.  The SAR and supporting papers were
satisfactorily prepared and provided generally well articulated references
required to monitor Project implementation easily and efficiently. Bank
s pervision reports and Government periodic review reports were carefully
epared according to agreed formats. They were generally consistent in their
findings and recommendations which were regularly conveyed to the highest
Government authorities for comment and action. Project files in the Asia
Information Center and in the Division, and the SAR relating to the Third
PSESP provided documents needed to prepare the PCR.
1.33     Availability of Relevant Data to PCR Mission.  The PCR mission
benefited from the excellent cooperation of all MOE divisions, IAB and
universities involved in Project implementation. The mission could collect
most of the necessary data through interviews and analysis of documents.
Essential MOE project data, which were computerized during Project
implementation, were of high quality and well related to the needs of the
mission.



- 21 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Adeguacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III
2.1      The Coverrunent is satisfied with the adequacy and accuracy of the
factual information in Part III of this report. The information was prepared
by the Bank in collaboration with representatives of the Government.  The data
should provide readers with insights to the strengths and weaknesses of
Project implementation.
Government's Comments on the Projects
2.2      The Government's comments are as follows:
(a) Provision of Equipment. In relation to provision of equipment to
schools, it should be noted that there are schools which were
originally established and managed by private associations and built
on private land. These schools are of a special category and by
virtue of their establishment, do not receive the full complement of
government assistance in terms of development budget.
(b) Teacher-Class Ratio. We appreciate the Bank's concern regarding the
teacher-class ratio in primary schools. However, this ratio is
necessary in view of the high degree of professional commitment
required of teachers under the new primary school curriculum. This
includes preparation of materials in line with the pupil-centered
approach in teaching, continuous assessment of pupils' progress
including project work and overseeing the implementation of
co-curricular activities. In addition, the teaching of subjects
which are very specific in nature such as Islamic Religious
Education, English Language, Music, Art and Pupils' Own Language
(Tamil, Mandarin and Iban) requires special subject teachers and thus
contributes to the high teacher-class ratio. Other special needs of
the schools, such as remedial instruction, library services, sports
and media also require special teachers as these are special
functions. A high teacher-class ratio allows sufficient time for
teachers to undertake their responsibilities more efficiently and
this eventually helps to improve the quality of primary education.
(c) Multigrade Teaching. We appreciate the Bank's concern but due to the
lack of trained teachers and materials, the implementation of
multigrade teaching has not been effectively carried out. However,
MOE has already taken steps and action to overcome these problems.
(d) Consolidation of Underenrolled Schools. Most of the underenrolled
schools are in remote areas which are not easily accessible.
Attempts to consolidate these schools have not been successful.
However, the MOE is taking measures to make these schools more
effective by improving multigrade teaching and promoting, whenever
possible, alternate-year students' intake, to increase class sizes.



- 22 -
(e) Reduced Classroom Size. The present size of classrooms are suitable
for the implementation of KBSR, as it allows ample space for
classroom activities as well as a better display of materials, and
the setting up of resource corners, as emphasized by the KBSR in its
active group learning approach. The reduction of classroom size
would not necessarily result in substantial cost saving and may not
facilitate the effective implementation of the KBSR in the above-
mentioned areas.
(f) Staff Development. The conversion of advanced degree fellowships
abroad to local university programs was to enable a larger group to
benefit from staff development programs at the post-graduate level.
In addition, in view of the lower English proficiency of some
candidates, courses conducted locally were more suitable. However,
there were difficulties arising from insufficient facilities and
manpower to cope with the sudden increase in the number of full-time
students as well as some specific areas of study at the post-graduate
level. The structure and design of the course which was prepared for
part-time students did not work in favor of full-time students.
Monitoring of the staff development program could not be undertaken
efficiently as the staff development unit was newly established and
consisted of officers who were also involved in other full-time
assignments. However, the MOE has taken steps in requesting the
establishment of a staff development unit to be manned by a full
complement of staff. The MOE agrees to the need of evaluating staff
development programs and will itself undertake this responsibility.
(g) Studies. The MOE is aware of the need for an open discussion
pertaining to studies between the Bank and the relevant agencies.
Therefore, the MOE will endeavor to facilitate such discussion when
the need arises.
Evaluation of Bank's Performance
2.3.     The Bank has provided a significant input into the preparation and
implementation of the Projects. There has been a close rapport between both
parties and we have been able to proceed with the Projects with not much
hindrance. It would be greatly appreciated if new Bank personnel could
familiarize themselves with the social, political and economic situation in
the country for a more effective and meaningful contribution.
Evaluation of Borrower's Performance
2.4.     Even though there were some problems in the implementation of
Projects, overall objectives of the Projects were achieved and helped to
improve education in the country.
Maior lessons learned
2.5.     The MOE is well aware of the importance of close and systematic
monitoring of project implementation. Efforts are being made to strengthen
the monitoring mechanism as well as the upgrading of skills of officers
involved in monitoring activities at all levels. The delay in school
construction is due to the lengthy process of land acquisition. In view of



- 23 -
this, land has to be acquired well in advance before construction begins.
This requires an early disbursement of funds.
Relationship with the Bank
2.6.     The Government of Malaysia has always been able to discuss openly and
resolve amicably any issues with the Bank. It is hoped that this cordial
relationship can be sustained and further strengthened.



- 24 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 3.1: RELATED IBRD LOANS
Loan Number                                 Year of Aporoval
Project Title           Purpose             Status                         Comments
Loan 599-MA      Expand general secondary    1969           General objectives successfully achieved
First            education in the            Completed      except for targeted enrollments of
Education        underprivileged State of    in November    technical and agricultural schools, due to
Project          Sabah, reorient general     1977           inadequate student admission criteria and
education towards a more                   incentives, and the weak practical
practical bias, and increase               technical component of school curricula.
the output of skilled                      Implementation delays resulted in a 67%
middle-level manpower.                     time overrun. Under-utilization of
technical assistance resulted in a 1 5%
project cost underrun; about 20% of the
Loan was cancelled.
Loan 810-MA      Improve curriculum          1972           Successfully implemented overall, except
Second           development and in-service    Completed    for the high examination failure rate in
Education       teacher training; expand     in December    vocational schools. There was a 63%
Project         the use of educational       1980           implementation time overrun and a 3%
media; increase the output                 cost underrun. However, the
and quality of graduate                    establishment of the Curriculum
science teachers and                       Development Center was a major
scientific manpower; and                   institutional development achievement.
further expand vocational
and technical training.
Loan 974-MA      Improve the quality of      1974           Major objectives successfully achieved
Third Education   education, particularly in  Completed     except for the difficulty to attract
Project          science and technology,     in June 1984    secondary students into science streams,
and expand educational                     and under-utilization of media in the
media coverage,                            classroom due to inadequate financial
particularly in Sabah and                  and human resources. Implementation
Sarawak.                                   was problematic, resulting in a 19% cost
overrun and a 66% time overrun.
Loan 1329-MA    Improve the quality and      1976           Major objectives successfully
Fourth           equity of basic education,  Completed      implemented except for the non-formal
Education        strengthen the school       in July 1985    component, eventually financed by the
Project          mapping and planning                       Borrower, and for the staff trained lost to
capacity of the MOE and                    project institutions for lack of positions in
the PWD, improve the                       MOE and PWD. There was an overall 6%
quality and increase the                   cost underrun and an implementation
output of skilled workers,                 time overrun of 92%. Delays were due
improve technical teacher                  to staff shortages in the MOE and
training, and initiate the                 Ministry of Labor and Manpower (MOLM)
development of nonformal                   Project Implementation Units (PlUs), and
education.                                 inexperienced and undercapitalized
contractors. However, establishing four
State Education Resource Centers
(SERCs) and strengthening the MOE
Educational Planning and Research
Division (EPRDI were major institutional
development achievements.



- 2 5 -
Table 3.1:  RELATED IBRD LOANS (cont.)
Loan Number                                 Year of Approval
Project Title            Purpose            Status                          Comments
Loan 1657-MA      Further improve the          1979           Project objectives successfully reached
Fifth             quality and equity of general   Completed   except for the occupational training
Education         education and promote       in March        study, eventually financed by other
Project           national integration in      1987           sources, and per capita grants for
disadvantaged districts,                   operating expenditures insufficient to
improve the planning,                      provide an enriched environment in
implementation and                         schools. The Loan was fully disbursed
management capabilities of                 two months ahead of the Closing Date.
public administration staff,               The overall cost overrun was 11 % and
and prepare an overall plan                time overrun was 45%.
for occupational training of               Implementation delays were due to
basic education graduates.                 difficulties in site acquisition and
contractors' performance.
Establishment of a National Institute of
Educational Management and a National
Institute of Public Administration was a
major institutional development
achievement.
Loan 2145-MA      Expand the training capacity   1982         Major objectives successfully met
Sixth Education   for technicians and skilled  Completed      except for the fellowships program
(Industrial       workers, and improve the    in June 1989   under the MOLM, and studies on new
Training) Project    quality of training curricula           training and incentive schemes.
and teachers, and the                      Inadequate staffing of MOE and MOLM
management and monitoring                  PlUs, and problems with technical
of the training systems and                assistance contracting, equipment
related recurrent                          procurement and construction resulted
expenditures of the MOE                    in a 44% time overrun. The cost
and the MOLM.                              underrun was 54%, due to appraisal
overestimates, economic recession and
favorable currency fluctuations. About
32% of the Loan was cancelled.
Loan 2601-MA      Further increase the         1985           All major project components
Seventh           supply of technicians and    Completed      completed except for the staff
Education         skilled workers, improve the   in June 1992   development program under the MOLM,
(Second           quality and management of                   most of which was financed by other
Industrial        training, strengthen                        sources. Difficulties similar to those
Training) Project)   manpower development                     affecting the preceding project resulted
planning, and further                      in a 42% time overrun and a 50% cost
promote training in industry.              underrun. About 51 % of the Loan was
cancelled.



- 26 -
Table 3.1:  RELATED IBRD LOANS (cont.)
Loan Number                                Year of Approval
Project Title           Purpose            Status                     Comments
Loan 2887-MA      Expand university enrollment   198        All major project components
Ninth Education    capacity to meet priority  Completed     completed except for the establishment
(University       manpower needs in          in December   of a long-term university development
Development      industrial engineering and   1992          plan and strategies. The project was
Project)          medical sciences, strengthen              completed one year behind the original
university management, and                Completion Date.
improve planning of
university development and
operations.
Loan 3536-MA      Promote quality and         1992          Under implementation.
Third Primary     excellence in the teaching-    Effective
and Secondary    learning process, expand     on March 16,
Education Sector   access to quality education,   1993
Project           and improve efficiency of
sectoral and project
management.
3571 -MA          Increase the quantity and   1993          Under implementation.
Polytechnic       quality of technical        Effective on
Development       manpower for industry       September 2,
Project          through the expansion of the   1993
nation's training capacity
and improvement of pre-
service training for higher
level skilled workers and
technicians.



- 27 -
Table 3.2A:  PROJECT TIMETABLE (LOAN 2685-MA)
----------------Dates------------------
Revised       Revised
Stage                 Planned    (Jan. 1991)   (Jun. 1992)    Actual
Reconnaissance            04/83                                  04/83 '
Identification            08/83                                  08/83
Preparation I             10/83                                  10/83
Preparation II            06/84                                  06/84 2'
Pre-Appraisal I           10/84                                  10/84 l/
Pre-Appraisal II          03/85                                  03/85
Appraisal                 05/85                                  05/85
Post-Appraisal I          11/85                                  11/85
Post-Appraisal II         02/86                                  02/86
Loan Negotiations         03/86                                  03/86
Board Presentation     04/29/86                               04/29/86
Loan Signing           05/23/86                               05/23/86
Loan Effectiveness     08/01/86                               08/01/86
Completion             06/30/90                               12/31/92
Loan Closing           06/30/91     06/30/92     12/31/92     12/31/92
" Preceded by preliminary discussions in late 1982 and early 1983; initial
Project Brief issued in June 1983.
' Government's Preparation Document completed in July 1984; revised
Project Brief issued on July 27, 1984.
a' Final Project Brief issued on January 3, 1985; draft Policy Paper
completed in February 1985.



- 28 -
Table 3.2B:  PROJECT TIMETABLE (LOAN 2987-MA)
- Dates -
Stage                          Planned           Actual
Preliminary Discussions            02/86             02/86
Reconnaissance                     10/86             10/86
Identification                     04/87             04/87 2'
Pre-Appraisal                      08/87             08/87 3/
Appraisal                          02/88             02/88
Loan Negotiations                  06/88             06/88
Board Presentation              08/02/88          08/02/88
Loan Signing                    08/11/88          08/11/88
Loan Effectiveness              10/25/88          10/25/88
Completion                      12/31/91          12/31/92
Loan Closing                    12/31/92          12/31/92
" Initial Executive Project Summary issued in December 1986;
initial Project Brief issued in February 1987.
2' Project Brief issued in June 1987.
V' Final Executive Project Summary issued in November 1987.



- 29 -
Table 3.3A: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS (LOAN 2685-MA)
----------------------------- Cumulative disbursements in USS million ----------------------------
Actual
Appraisal             Revised V'            Revised 2/          as % of
IBRD fiscal    estimates             estimates            estimates            appraisal
year/semester  May 1985  Actual    Dec. 1990  Actual   Jun. 1992  Actual  estimates
1987 1st          2.5       5.5                   5.5                   5.52'       4
2nd         5.0      14.2                  14.2                  14.2        11
1988 1st         10.1     25.2                   25.2                 25.2         20
2nd        21.5      35.4                  35.4                  35.4        28
1989 1 st        35.5     35.4                   35.4                 35.4         28
2nd        54.4      41.4                  41.4                  41.4        33
1990 1 st        73.5     48.0                   48.0                 48.0         38
2nd        92.7      59.5                  59.5                  59.5        47
1991 1st        110.7                  80.8      70.0                 70.0         55
2nd       127.0                  95.8      75.9                  75.9        60
1992 1st                              111.8      81.6                 81.6         64
2nd                             120.8      91.9                  91.9        72
1993 1 st                             127.0                  98.7     96.1         76
2nd                                                   111.7    109.24'       86
1' In December 1 990, the Government requested an extension to the original Closing Date by
one year, to June 30, 1992, to accommodate the delayed construction of the Batu Pahat
and Sri Pinang Teacher Training Colleges (TTCs).
2' In June 1992, the Government requested a second extension of the Closing Date by six
months, to December 31, 1992, to allow for the procurement of equipment for the Batu
Pahat and Sri Pinang TTCs. The Government also requested the cancellation of US$1 5.3
million of the Loan; this amount was cancelled on June 23, 1992.
3' Including the US$8.5 million initial deposit into Special Account made on January 25,
1988.
4' The final disbursement was made on April 15, 1993, and an additional US$2.5 million of
undisbursed funds was cancelled on September 29, 1993, the date on which the recovery
of the Special Account and refund of the remaining balance was made.
Loan 2685-MA disbursements proceeded smoothly and ahead of schedule during the first two
years of implementation, but slowed in the following two years to less than two-thirds of
appraisal estimates. They lagged behind the November 1990 revised estimates, and as of the
Closing Date of December 31, 1992, represented 76% of the original Loan or 86% of the
revised Loan Amount following the cancellations. The final amount disbursed reached 98% of
the June 1992 revised estimates. A major cause of disbursement delays was the collection of
payment vouchers by different government agencies, depending on the type and location of
expenditures, without sufficient coordination (e.g. for fellowships abroad, the Accountant
General's Office within the Treasury collected the vouchers relating to fellowships in Britain
through the High Commission in the United Kingdom, while the MOE Finance Division collected
those from other countries through the Malaysian Students' Department in each specific
country). For civil works, the vouchers were collected by PWD; however, the understaffing of
PWD resulted in its inability to collect vouchers from the many individual contractors. The
problem was compounded by the weak initial linkages between PWD and the MOE or State
Education Departments (SEDs), particularly in Sabah and Sarawak, and by the PIU's accounting
and technical staff shortage. This kept PIU from ensuring adequate coordination between all
MOE divisions and external government agencies involved, and travelling to East Malaysia as
required to help expedite the collection of vouchers.



- 30 -
Figure 3.3A. DISBURSEMENT GRAPH (LOAN 2685-MA)
1t0
120-
100-
92 80 
60-
40-
20-
0            ,    *    .   .
1987     1988     1989     1990     1991     1992     1993
IBRD fiscal year
Appmiml stimate -U- nvimed. Nov. 90  E3 Reviwd. Juim 92  in Actual



- 31 -
Table 3.3B: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS (LOAN 2987-MA)
---- Cumulative disbursements in US$ million ----
Appraisal                     Actual as %
IBRD fiscal        estimates                     of appraisal
year/semester      Feb. 1988       Actual        estimate
1989 1st              2.4           0.0             0
2nd            10.9           0.0             0
1990 1 st            30.8           6.7            11
2nd            46.7          16.5            28
1991 1st             54.5          26.4            45
2nd            58.3          34.6            59
1992 1 st            58.6          38.7            66
2nd            58.7          50.4            86
1993 1 st            58.8          56.5            96
2nd            58.8          58.8           100
Note: The Closing Date was December 31, 1992.
Loan 2987-MA disbursements progressed satisfactorily. Although delayed
by one year, they virtually caught up with the appraisal schedule over a
period of three and a half years, rising from 22% of the Loan at the
beginning of the second year of Project implementation to 96% as of the
Closing Date of December 31, 1992. Remaining expenditures incurred prior
to the Closing Date were fully disbursed by March 12, 1993. Disbursements
under Loan 2987-MA were faster than under Loan 2685-MA because they
related to school construction and staff development programs which were
easier to manage, following the lessons learned from the First Project and
the alleviation of major implementation difficulties.



- 32 -
Figure 3. 3B. DISBURSEMENT GRAPH (LOAN 2987-MA)
60
50-
,to
10-
20-
10 
0*
1989        1990        1991        1992        1993
IBRD fical year
Appraiml Etimxate --  Actual



- 33 -
Table 3.4A: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (LOAN 2685-MA)
Objective and Targets                        Actual Accomplishments
Teacher Trainina Colleaes
To contribute to meeting       All three TTCs at Raja Melewar (Seremban), Batu Pahat (Johore) and
teacher demand and replace     Sri Pinang (Bukit Mertajam) are in operation. Tendering was
inadequate teacher training    completed in November 1986 and construction in January 1990,
facilities, build, equip and   April 1992 and December 1992, respectively. Original equipment
furnish three TTCs to be      lists were drafted in 1986. Their revision in accordance with the
completed in June 1989.        new school curricula started in mid-1989 and was completed In May
1990. Due to subsequent adjustments to TTC training objectives,
the lists were updated in 1992.
School Construction
To alleviate critical shortages  The outcome of the program exceeded appraisal targets by 40%,
of facilities in underprivileged  as follows:
districts, build, equip and                                              Actual
furnish new schools and                                Plan      Total  Phase I  Phase II
related boarding and staff
housing facilities, and extend  Classrooms: Primary   2,200      3,070   2,295      775
existing facilities to establish          Secondary   1,100       1,556   1,022     534
more cost-efficient primary
schools, relieve the pressure             Total       3,300      4,626   3,317   1,309
in crowded secondary
schools, and provide           Schools:   Primary       260        337      258      79
specialized and administrative            Secondary      70        104       68      36
facilities. The primary and
secondary school construction             Total         330        441      326     115
programs were planned to be
completed in December 1988     Boarding units:           24         32       24       8
and June 1989, respectively.   Boarders accommodated: 4,700       5,890   4,370   1,520
Staff quarters: Blocks   105        171      118      53
Units      503       1,096     772     324
Staff     1,500      3,300   2,330     970
The school construction program was geographically distributed
as follows:
Primary Secondary Staff
Schools  Schools Quarters Boardina Tota
Peninsular Malaysia   256     78      113      34    479
Sabah                45        6        17      --     62
Sarawak              36       20       41       --     64
Total               337      104      171       34    605



- 34 -
Table 3.4A: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (LOAN 2685-MA) (cont.)
Objective and Targets                       Actual Accomplishments
School Construction              The original program was virtually completed on schedule:
(cont.)                         in December 1988, 89% of the primary schools were completed
or close to completion, and in June 1989, 98% of the total
original program was completed. To utilize undisbursed funds,
a second phase, including 97 schools, 49 staff quarters and
8 boarding units, was started in October 1988 in Peninsular
Malaysia, and 18 schools were added to the East Malaysia
program in mid-1989. On the original June 1991 Closing Date,
9 schools each in Sabah and Sarawak remained to be completed
under Phase I, and the construction of 15 schools in Peninsular
Malaysia, 2 schools in Sabah and another 8 in Sarawak were still
incomplete under Phase II. On the December 1992 Closing Date,
6 schools and one staff quarter in Peninsular Malaysia, 3 schools
in Sabah, and 5 schools in Sarawak were still under construction,
expected to be completed by the end of 1993.
Educational Resources
(a) To improve the quality of    The book program was implemented in three phases. A total of
universal primary education, reach    over 11.8 million books under 2,248 titles were distributed to
a primary student-library books  7,017 schools. The first two phases, focusing on books in the
ratio of 1:5 by 1990 through the  National Language, were completed virtually on schedule in May
provision of about eight million  1988 and December 1989. The third phase raised some
library books to about 6,700     problems: the 110,000 Tamil books could not be delivered
primary schools, supplementing the   earlier than January 1991, and the 4.4 million English books and
existing libraries of about 2,000  560,000 Chinese books not earlier than mid-1992. Undisbursed
larger schools and creating new  funds allowed the provision of library books to new schools
libraries in the 4,700 most      under the Loan 2685-MA extended construction programs and
underprivileged rural schools. The    Loan 2987-MA, and reference books to 28 TTCs in 1989 and
program was planned to be        1990, and the four SERCs and 365 District Education Resource
completed by mid-1989.           Centers (DERCs), including 350 located in selected schools,
14 located in State Education Departments (SEDs) and one
located within the MOE Educational Technology Division (ETD),
in May 1992.
(b) To promote an active learning  The school equipment program was implemented in three
approach, as emphasized by the   phases: Phase I provided teaching and audio-visual aids, hand
new primary school curriculum,   tools and electrical kits to the 365 DERCs (314 in Peninsular
provide the 5,400 rural primary  Malaysia, 25 in Sabah and 26 in Sarawak). It was completed in
schools with basic sets of audio-  July 1987. Under Phase II, TVNCR equipment and micro-
visual aids and equipment so that  computers were provided to the DERCs in mid-1 988 and mid-
they can benefit from MOE radio   1989. Phase IlIl provided: (a) basic equipment to 4,229 school
and TV programs, and provide     Resource Centers (RCs), which was delivered to 850 schools in
equipment to 365 DERCs to assist    Sabah in 1989 and to 3,379 schools in Peninsular Malaysia and
teachers in satellite schools to  Sarawak in 1990, and (bl complementary equipment which was
produce better teaching-learning  delivered to DERCs in Peninsular Malaysia and Sarawak in
materials for the specific needs of    September 1990, and in Sabah in September 1991. The
their classes. The program was to   remaining contracts, providing equipment to the four SERCs and
be completed in June 1989.       the 295 new DERCs built under Loan 2987-MA were signed in
May 1992. The last delivery of multi-media kits to DERCs is
expected to be completed in late 1993.



- 35 -
Table 3.4A:  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (LOAN 2685-MA) (cont.)
Objective and Targets                                    Actual Accomplishments
Studies Proaram
To improve educational development planning    The studies were assigned to major universities as
and qualitative assessment of the education  follows: (a) University of Science--(1) and (7);
system, and to increase the efficiency of   (b) University of Agriculture--(2) and (8); (c)
investments in education, carry out five    University of Malaya--14) and (9); (d) National
research and four evaluation studies to refine  University--C5); and University of Technology--(6).
the analysis of major issues affecting quality,    In addition, the MOE's EPRD carried out the school
cost efficiency and equity in education. The  mapping exercise in East Malaysia. The terms of
research studies included: 'The Relationship  reference of the studies were developed by the
Between Teacher Attributes and their        Project Sub-Committee on Research and Evaluation
Effectiveness" (1); 'The Management of      on the basis of universities' and EPRD's proposals.
School Facilities, Including Education Resource   They were reviewed by the Bank in 1987. Interim
Centers" (2); "School Mapping in Sabah and  reports were reviewed in April 1989, except for the
Sarawak' (3); "The Effect of Educational    analysis of graduates' occupational opportunities in
Inputs, and Socio-Economic and Environmental   Study 4 which was completed later. In late 1989,
Factors on Students' Achievement and Job    the final reports of studies (1), (2), (5), (6) and (8)
Opportunities" (4); and "The Process of     were completed. The last study (9) was completed in
National Integration in the Educational Setting"   early 1991. The Bank's comments were conveyed to
(5). The evaluation studies included:       universities through EPRD. Undisbursed funds were
"Employment of Polytechnics Graduates, and  utilized to conduct a national seminar on the findings
Technical and Vocational Schools" (6); "The  of the studies in February 1991 and to carry out a
Educational Media Service" (later renamed the    school mapping exercise in Peninsular Malaysia,
Educational Technology Division) (7); "The  which was completed in June 1992.
Textbook Loan Scheme" (8); and "The System
of Educational Evaluation and Testing in
Malaysian Schools" (9). The program was
planned to be completed in June 1989.
Staff Development Proaram
To increase the efficiency of educational   The program was implemented as follows:
management and fill urgently needed key                                        Actual
positions at federal, state, district and school                 Plan   1990  1991  1992
levels, finance fellowships and specialist
services. The program was to be completed   Fellowships abroad
in June 1990.                                MA degrees            41       8      9      9
PhD degrees           0       0      0      1
Short-term courses   100    103   116   175
Sub-total         141     111   125   185
In-country fellowships
Short-courses       400    600   704   731
Specialist courses    0    494   624   664
Training Module
Development Program  0       --  111    124
MA degrees            0      44    73    75
Advanced diplomas     0        1     1      1
Sub-total         400   1,139  1,513  1,595
Total             541   1,250  1,638  1,780



- 36 -
Table 3.4A: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (LOAN 2685-MA) (cont.)
Objective and Targets                                    Actual Accomplishments
Staff Develooment Proaram (cont.)            The program was often modified after a hesitant start
to accommodate programs financed by external
sources and, in 1987, the number of advanced
degrees abroad was reduced in order to increase the
number of short-term fellowships abroad, in-country
short-term programs and advanced degree courses in
local universities. Institute Aminuddin Baki (IAB) had
a roster of qualified foreign specialists at an early
stage of project implementation and 34 foreign
specialists of high repute could be recruited for a total
of 45 staff-months of services. Ten local specialists
also participated in the program for a total of 24
staff-months of service. However, the recruiting
process was delayed by extended negotiations
between IAB, the Treasury and the identified
specialists.



- 37 -
Table 3.4B: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (LOAN 2987-MA)
Objective and Targets                       Actual Accomplishments
School and Resource Center
Construction
To further alleviate critical  The program virtually reached all appraisal targets. It was
shortages of facilities in    implemented in two phases: Phase I, completed in December 1990,
underprivileged districts, build,    represented about 90% of the overall program, with emphasis on
equip and furnish new schools    primary schools, staff housing and resource centers; and Phase II
and related boarding and staff    represented the remaining 10%. The program was implemented as
housing facilities; and to    follows:
optimize the use of                                                      Actual
educational resource                                   Plan      Total  Phase I  Phase II
equipment and materials
provided to the DERCs under    Classrooms: Primary    2,100      2,071   2,071        --
Loan 2685-MA, provide new                 Secondary   2,300      2,331   1,865      466
physical facilities to 295
DERCs.                                    Total       4,400      4,402   3,936      466
Schools:   Primary       240        234     234       --
Secondary     150        152     120       32
Total         390        386     354       32
Boarding units:           16         16       12       4
Boarders accommodated: 2,800      2,840   2,130      710
Staff quarters: Blocks    51         50       50       --
Units      290        295      295       --
Staff    1,200       1,200   1,200       --
Resource Centers:        295        295      295       --
The program was geographically distributed as follows:
Primary  Secondary  Staff
Schools  Schools Quarters Boardina Centers Tot
Peninsular
Malaysia    213     149       50     16       253   681
Sabah          4        1       --    --        21    26
Sarawak       17       2        --    --        21    40
Total        234     152       50     16       295   747



- 38 -
Table 3,4B: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (LOAN 2987-MA) (cont.)
Objective and Targets                       Actual Accomplishments
School and Resource Center            Construction started about one year behind schedule.
Construction (cont.>                  In June 1990, only 50% of staff housing and 40% of the
resource centers were completed, as compared with the
planned 100%. In December 1990, primary schools,
which should have been fully implemented, were only
53% complete. In June 1991, the planned completion
date for secondary schools and boarding, these
components were only 53% and 44% complete,
respectively. However, on December 31, 1991, the
original Project Completion Date, Phase I and Phase II
were, respectively, 100% and 89% complete in Peninsular
Malaysia, 85% and 80% complete in Sabah, and 81 % and
50% complete in Sarawak. By the December 1992
Closing Date, 16 schools, one staff quarter and 2 boarding
blocks in Peninsular Malaysia, 3 schools in Sabah and 6
schools in Sarawak were still under construction, expected
to be completed by the end of 1 993.
Staff Development Proaram
To further increase the efficiency of  Due to the multiplier effect of IAB outreach programs
educational management and fill key   down to the school level, delivered by the trainers trained
positions in the MOE, SEDs, DEOs and  under the First PSESP, the outcome of the program
school levels, provide fellowships    exceeded the targets as follows:
abroad in educational, technical and
managerial fields, and local programs                                       Actual
to train school principals, and                             Plan     1990   1991  1992
advisors, master teachers, teacher
trainers and resource staff. The      Fellowships abroad
program was to be implemented by        MA degrees           17         8       8    1
December 1 990 for local training and
December 1991 for fellowships         In-country
abroad.                                 School principals'
course             800    1,325      119   0
Outreach programs  6,600   13,207   2,035    0
Sub-total        7,400   14,522   2,154    1
Total            7,417   14,530   2,162    1



- 39 -
Table 3.5A: PROJECT COSTS (LOAN 2685-MA)
(in US$ million)
Estimated Costs '               Final Costs
(Appraisal, May 1985)         (December 31,1992)
Category                 Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total
Civil Works              145.5   80.2   225.9          163.2    82.0  245.2
Land                        6.2     -        6.2         6.1      -      6.1
Professional Services       6.2     1.1      7.3         0.1     0.1     0.2
Furniture                   8.3     2.8    11.1          4.7     1.6     6.3
Equipment                   3.5   32.0    35.5           1.5   18.7   20.2
Library books              14.3     4.9    19.2         13.1     4.4    17.5
Fellowships abroad          0.5     5.1      5.6         0.3     1.9    2.2
Local Training              0.5     0.1      0.6         0.3     0.1     0.4
Specialist Services         0.1     0.6      0.7         0.1     0.2     0.3
Studies                     0.5     0.2      0.7         0.4     0.2     0.6
Total Proiect Cost        185.8  127.0   312.8         189.8  109.2  299.0
In Ringgit (M$) million  456.9  312.8   769.7          509.1  289.5  798.6
2' Including physical and price contingencies.
The total Project cost was estimated at appraisal at US$312.8 million, including US$47.7 million
of contingencies, for expenditures over a five-year period. At the appraisal exchange rate of
Ringgit IM$) 2.46 to US$1.0, this was equivalent to M$ 769.7 million. The final Project cost
was M$ 798.6 million, expended over seven years. Based on average annual exchange rates
fluctuating from M$ 2.58 in 1986 to 2.75 in 1991, the final Project cost Is estimated at
US$299.0 million. The underrun of US$13.8 million represents 4% of the originally estimated
total Project cost. The foreign exchange component was estimated as follows: 35% for civil
works; 15% for professional services; 25% for furniture and books; 90% for equipment,
fellowships abroad and specialist services; and 20% for studies and local training.



- 40 -
Table 3.5B: PROJECT COSTS (LOAN 2987-MA)
(in US$ million)
Estimated Costs v'              Final Costs
lAppraisal, February 1988)     (December 31, 19921
Category                 Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total
Civil works and
professional services     93.7    51.0   144.7        101.8    51.4  153.2
Furniture                   4.5     1.5      6.0         5.8     1.9     7.7
Equipment                   0.6     5.4      6.0         0.4     4.7     5.1
Fellowships abroad          0.1     0.8      0.9          -      0.8     0.8
Local Training              2.1     0.1      2.2         1.6      -       1.6
Total Proiect Cost        101.0   588   1598           109 6    5 8   168.4
In Ringgit (M$) million  252.6  146.9   399.5          299.2  160.5  459.7
1' Including physical and price contingencies.
The total Project cost was estimated at appraisal at US$159.8 million, including US$13.4 million
of contingencies for expenditures over a four-year period. At the appraisal exchange rate of
Ringgit (M$) 2.50 to US$1.0, this was equivalent to M$ 399.5 million. The final Project cost
was M$ 459.7 million expended over four and a half years. Based on average annual exchange
rates fluctuating from M$ 2.62 in 1988 to 2.75 in 1991, the final Project cost is estimated at
US$168.4 million, which represents an overrun of M$ 8.6 million, i.e. 5% of the originally
estimated total Project cost. The foreign exchange component was estimated as follows: 35%
for civil works; 25% for furniture; 90% for equipment; and 100% for fellowships abroad.



- 41 -
Table 3.6A: PROJECT FINANCING (LOAN 2685-MA)
(in US$ million)
Estimated Financing           Final Financing
(Appraisal, May 1985)       (December 31, 1992)
Category                 GOM    IBRD    Total        GOM    IBRD    Total
Civil works             125.6   67.7   193.3        163.2   82.0  245.2
Land                       5.6     -       5.6         6.1    -       6.1
Professional services     5.4    0.9       6.3        0.1    0.1    0.2
Furniture                 6.8    2.3       9.1        4.7    1.6    6.3
Equipment                 2.9   25.6    28.5           1.5   18.7   20.2
Library books             11.9    4.0    15.9        13.1    4.4   17.5
Fellowships abroad        0.5    4.3       4.8         0.3    1.9    2.2
Local training            0.3    0.1      0.4         0.3    0.1    0.4
Specialist services       0.1    0.5      0.6         0.1    0.2    0.3
Studies                   0.5    0.1      0.6          0.4    0.2    0.6
Contingencies            26.2   21.5    47.7           -
Total              185.8  127.0  .312.8        189.8  109.2  299.0
The original Loan of US$127.0 million was to finance the foreign exchange component
representing 41 % of the total Project cost. With the cancellation of US$15.3 million of Loan
funds on June 23, 1992 and of US$2.5 million on September 29, 1993, Loan proceeds
totalling US$109.2 million financed 36% of the final total Project cost.



- 42 -
Table 3.6B: PROJECT FINANCING (LOAN 2987-MA)
(in US$ million)
Estimated Financing           Final Financing
(Appraisal, February 1988)     (December 31, 1992)
Category                 GOM    IBRD    Total        GOM    IBRD    Total
Civil works and
professional services    86.4   46.4   132.8        101.8   51.4  153.2
Furniture                 4.1    1.4       5.5         5.8    1.9    7.7
Equipment                 0.5    4.8       5.3        0.4    4.7    5.1
Fellowships abroad        0.0    0.8       0.8        -       0.8    0.8
Local training            2.0    0.0       2.0         1.6    -       1.6
Contingencies             8.0    5.4    13.4              -          -
Total                101.0   58.8   159.8        109.6           168 4
The original Loan of US$58.8 million was to finance the foreign exchange component
representing 37% of the total Project cost. With a cost overrun of USS8.6 million, the Loan
financed 35% of the final total Project cost.



- 43 -
Table 3.7:  PROJECT RESULTS (LOANS 2685-MA AND 2987-MA)
A. Benefits
I. QUALITY OF EDUCATION
TEACHER TRAINING
Obiective: Increase the capacity   Actual: In 1992, there were 30 TTCs offering the three planned
and improve the quality of teacher  pre-service training programs, namely the 2 1/2-year Primary
training to meet the needs of the  Teacher Certificate course, the 2 1/2- to 3-year Non-Graduate
new curricula and cope with        Lower Secondary Certificate course, and the one-year Post-
natural enrollment increase,       Graduate Diploma in Education (PGDE) course. TTCs also
upgrade academically qualified     provided in-service training programs to 2,700 annual
teachers without professional      participants, including three one-year Diploma courses, 19 one-
certification, introduce qualified  year specialized courses, 15 14-week professional courses, and
teachers to the new curricula and  a four-month course for professional upgrading of non-graduate
teaching methods, and replace      teachers. In addition, six universities provided 6,400 trainees
3,000 places in inadequate TTCs.   with one-year Diploma-in-Education courses and 4-year Bachelor
of Arts/Science with Education courses. The pre-service
training programs progressed as follows:
Faculties of
Teacher Training Colleges         Education
Targets    Actual          Actual    Actual  Actual
1990     1986  Proiect   1992        1986   1992
Capacity
Number of TTCs/Faculties       30        27       3       30          5       6
Estimated capacity _/      30,000   25,000  3,500  28,500         5,500  6,400
Output
Primary teachers            8,000    4,500   1,000   8,100            --     --
Non-graduate secondary
teachers                    1,500    1,000    180   1,000            --     --
Graduate secondary teachers
PGDE                        1,200         --   150   1,569       1,800   1,543
BA/BSc (Education)             --        --      --       --    1,229   1,396
Total                 10,700    5,500   1,330  10,669       3,029  2,939
a/ In 1990, TTC enrollments peaked at about 30,000, necessitating night shifts.
EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES
Obiective: Improve primary         Actual: Under Loan 2685-MA, about 4,229 underprivileged
students' and teachers' creativity  rural primary schools, 365 DERCs and the four SERCs were
by providing all primary schools   equipped. A total of 7,017 schools were provided with over
with educational resource facilities,    11.8 million library books. Reference books were also provided
including a library, adequate     to 28 TTCs, IAB, DERCs and SERCs. Under Loan 2987-MA,
equipment and materials and        295 DERCs located in schools were provided with new physical
physical facilities to DERCs       facilities.
(later renamed Teachers' Activity
Centers) by 1990.



- 44 -
Table 3.7:  PROJECT RESULTS (LOANS 2685-MA AND 2987-MA)
A. Benefits (cont.)
STAFF HOUSING
Obiective: Retain qualified   Actual: The 4,500 staff accommodated in Project staff quarters represent
teachers in hardship areas    about 3.5% of all primary teachers and over one third of primary teachers
by improving their living  accommodated in MOE staff quarters. In 1992, there were about 9,800
conditions through        staff quarters accommodating 13,200 primary teachers and 5,600
provision of staff quarters.   quarters accommodating 6,800 secondary teachers. This represented
10% of the 129,916 primary teachers and about 9% of the 79,687
secondary teachers. Project achievements were as follows:
Loan 2685-MA      Loan 2987-MA             Total
Taroets  Actual    Taroets  Actual    Taraets  Actual
Staff quarter blocks      105     171         51       50        156     221
Staff quarters units      500   1,096        290      295        790   1,391
Staff accommodated      1,500   3,300       1,200   1,200      2,700   4,500
CURRICULUM
Obiective: Improve        Actual: A new primary school curriculum CKBSR) was fully implemented
curricula and teaching    in 1989 and all subjects of a new integrated secondary school curriculum
methods, focusing on     (KBSM) were implemented up to Form IV (the first year of upper
reading, writing,         secondary education), together with the four Form V language subjects in
mathematics and           1992. The KBSM will be fully implemented in 1993, as planned. Related
environment-centered     textbooks were produced and distributed through a textbook loan scheme
integrated science        which benefits over 90% of the primary and secondary school population
subjects, with a student  at current annual cost of M$65 million, i.e., USS 25 million equivalent)
activity oriented approach.   per annum for about eight million books. Teacher training programs and
teachers' guides were modified to meet the practical requirements of the
new curricula. School-based assessment testing and a national primary
school achievement test (UPSR) were introduced. Curriculum evaluation
and revision have been a continuing process carried out by MOE's EPRD
with the collaboration of the University of Science Malaysia (USM) for the
KBSR, and the University of Malaya for the KBSM. An evaluation of the
KBSR, carried out by USM, was completed in 1990. CDC is revising the
integrated KBSR science component, separating social from physical
sciences to alleviate difficulties in teaching integrated subjects.
TEACHERS WITH SPECIAL FUNCTIONS
Obiective: Provide        Actual: The number of special function teachers increased from 5,509 in
secondary schools with    1986 to 8,001 in 1 992 for a total of 1,395 secondary schools.
special function teachers to   Moreover, two new academic special function categories, which were not
take care of students in  included in the Project Plans of Action, were added In 1992, namely
areas outside academic    Senior Subject Teachers (6,997) and Senior Co-Curriculum Teachers
teaching.                (378). This increased the number of special function teachers to 15,376.



- 45 -
Table 3 .7: PROJECT RESULTS (LOANS 2685-MA AND 2987-MA)
A. Benefits (cont.)
MOE Targets           Actual
SDecial Function Teachers    1990    1995         1986    1992
Headmasters                  1,300    1,400      1,179    1,211
Senior assistants            1,100    2,100        967    1,131
Afternoon supervisors         500    1,400         543      510
Guidance counsellors         1,300    2,800      1,083    1,233
Sports teachers               500    1,200         704      905
Media specialists             300      700         351      738
Librarians                    500    1,300         682    1,111
Welfare specialists             --   1,000          --   1,162
Total                     5,500    9,900      5,509    8,001
TEACHER-CLASS RATIOS
Obiective: Increase the  Actual: In 1992, the ratios were as follows:
teacher-class ratio from
1.2:1 to 1.5:1 in primary
education, to provide                               All      Regular     Trained
teachers with sufficient                         Teachers   Teachers a/ Teachers /
time to discharge their       Primary
new curriculum                 All schools         1.65:1     1.43:1      1.25:1
assignments.                   Regular schools c/   1.72:1    1.49:1      1.33:1
Secondary
All schools        1.81:1      1.61:1      1.52:1
a/ Excluding teachers with special functions.
b/ Excluding teachers without professional qualifications.
c/ Excluding underenrolled schools (below 150 students).
SECONDARY TEACHER QUALIFICATIONS
Obiective: Raise         Actual: The number of graduate teachers in secondary education
academic standards in    increased by 84% from 18,477 in 1986 to 33,995 in 1992, and their
secondary education by   proportion among secondary school teachers was 43%, compared to
increasing the proportion  32% in 1986.
of university graduate
teachers.
MOE Targets          Actual
1990    1995     1986    1992
Lower secondary    15%     40%       5%     23%
Upper secondary    85%    100%      75%     77%



- 46 -
Table 3.7: PROJECT RESULTS (LOANS 2685-MA AND 2987-MA)
A. Benefits (cont.)
TRAINERS' QUALIFICATIONS
Obiective: Raise teacher training academic  Actual: In 1992, out of 2,687 trainers, 2,204 were
standards by recruiting new trainers among    graduates (82%, compared to 63% in 1986 and 69% in
graduates or post-secondary specialized   1989), including 6 PhDs and 326 MA degree holders.
diploma holders, and upgrade the 600     Post-graduates represented 12.2% of TTC staff. The
unqualified trainers (out of the 1,600   remaining non-graduates were attending one-year
trainers) to post-secondary qualifications.  specialized in-service courses while six of them were
pursuing first degree courses and 48 post-graduate
programs (3 PhDs and 45 MAs) in universities. New
trainers are recruited among graduates.
OVERCROWDED CLASSES
Obiective: Improve working conditions in  Actual: In 1 992, the number of overcrowded classes
the classroom by reducing the number of  and their proportion in the total number of classes were
overcrowded classes so that class size does   as follows:
not exceed 45 in 1990 and 40 in 1995.
National                        1992
1986          1992      Pen. Mal.      Sabah     Sarawak
Number %    Number %    Number %   Number %   Number %
Primary
Classes of 40+   22,432 33    23,194 29    18,894 30    2,468 28    1,832 22
Classes of 45 +    6,000 10    9,004 11      6,379 10    1,426 16    1,199 15
Secondary
Classes of 40+    8,558 23     6,082 14      4,482 13    1,040 33       560 15
Classes of 45 +    1,600  4    1,239  3       687  2       471 15        81  2
Note: Pen. Mal. = Peninsular Malaysia
DOUBLE SHIFTING
Obiective: Reduce double shifting        Actual: In 1986 and 1992, the proportions of schools
wherever it restricts instruction time and  and classes practicing double shifting were as follows:
generates commuting hardships.
Primary Education                Secondary Education
National           1992             National           1992
1986   1992    Pen.  Sab. Sar.   1986   1992   Pen.  Sab. Sar.
Schools
Number      938   1,035    857   145   33        711    614   494    74   46
% of total   14      15      18    15    3        58      44    44    52   35
Classes
Number   11,260 13,183 11,552  1,385  246  11,750 10,492 8,539  1,145 808
% of total   17      17      19    16    3        32      25    24    36   21
Note: Pen. = Peninsular Malaysia; Sab. = Sabah; Sar. = Sarawak



- 47 -
Table 3.7: PROJECT RESULTS (LOANS 2685-MA AND 2987-MA)
A. Benefits (cont.)
II. EFFICIENCY OF EDUCATIONAL MANAGEMENT
STAFF DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
Obiectives: Fill urgently needed key positions at   Actual: Project achievements are as follows:
all managerial levels from MOE to schools with
adequately trained professionals.
Loan 2685-MA        Loan 2987-MA           Total
Proarams D/          Taraets   Actual    Taraets   Actual   Taroets   Actual
Abroad
MA degrees             41         9         17       17        58       26
PhD degrees             0         1          --       --        0         1
Short-Term courses    100       175          --       --      100      175
Sub-total            141      185         17       17       158       202
In-country
Short courses b/      400       731       800    1,444      1,200    2,175
Specialist courses c/    0      664      6,600   15,242     6,600   15,906
Training Module
Development Program    0       124         --       --         0      124
MA degrees              0        75          --      --         0       75
Advanced diplomas       0         1          --       --        0         1
Sub-total           400    1,595       7,400   16,686      7,800   18,281
Total              541    1,780       7,417   16,703     7,958   18,483
A/ The above training programs included the following topics: educational development;
planning; financing and management; policy implementation and evaluation;
administration and supervision; computers in information systems; curriculum
development, evaluation and management; research methodology and evaluation;
measurement and testing; education methodology: remedial education; computers in
education; management of educational resources; book production; educational
technology production and management; community education; and peer group
facilitator skills.
b/ Includes school principals' courses.
r/ Includes outreach programs for advisors, teacher trainers, master teachers and resource
staff down to school level under Loan 2987-MA.
STUDIES
All nine planned studies were completed (Table 3.4). Their outcomes are described in Table 3.7B.



- 48 -
Table 3.7: PROJECT RESULTS (LOANS 2685-MA AND 2987-MA)
A. Benefits (cont.)
COST-EFFICIENCY MEASURES
Obiectives: (il Consolidate the 2,400       Actual: The above measures could not be
underenrolled schools to bring up their average  successfully implemented: (i} the number of
class size from 18 in 1986 to 20 in 1990 and  underenrolled schools increased to about 2,500 and
24 in 1995; (ii) expand multigrade teaching so  their average class size was 15.5, below the 1986
that 60% of these underenrolled schools     figure; (b) multigrade teaching was practiced In only
practice it in 1 990 and all of them in 1995; and    738 schools (29% of all underenrolled schools); and
(iii) implement designs and standards of reduced    more cost-efficient designs for small class
classroom size (600 sq. ft.) for classes below  enrollments were used in only 23 schools. In
40 students.                                addition, no measures have been envisaged to
reduce the overly high teacher-class ratio.
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Obiective: Develop monitoring and evaluation  Actual: EPRD developed an adequate statistical
of the quality and efficiency of education by  collection and processing system which enabled It
establishing procedures and indicators to assess   to produce high quality annual evaluation reports,
annual progress in the provision of educational    including national examinations results and
inputs and in student achievement, and      statistical yearbooks. Although this system could
producing annual evaluation reports on the  be further improved, it provides the data required for
quality of education in conjunction with a  planning, decision making and policy Implementation
statistical report.                         monitoring, as expected.



- 49 -
Table 3.7: PROJECT RESULTS (LOANS 2685-MA AND 2987-MA)
A. Benefits (cont.)
III. ACCESS TO BETTER EDUCATION
Obiectives: Assist in: (i) maintaining universal  Actual: Project achievements in construction of
primary education; (ii) expanding lower     physical facilities and sector coverage are given in
secondary education to reach an enrollment  the following two tables:
ratio of 92% in 1990 with a view to achieving
universal lower secondary education in 1995;
{iii) alleviating critical overcrowding of school
facilities and double shifting; and (iv) providing
boarding facilities to students who otherwise
could not have access to secondary education.
Loan 2685-MA       Loan 2987-MA            Total
Taroets   Actual   Taraets   Actual   Taroets   Actual
Primary Education
Schools                   260      337       240       234       500      571
Classrooms              2,200    3,070     2,090    2,071      4,290    5,141
Places                 92,000  122,800    84,000   82,800   174,000  205,600
Beneficiaries a/      120,000  142,800   100,000   96,300   220,000  239,100
- % of total enrollments    5       5.4        4       3.7         9       9.1
Secondary Education
Schools                    70      104       150       152       217      256
Classrooms              1,100    1,556     2,320    2,331      3,420    3,887
Places                 40,000   62,200    93,000   93,200   133,000  155,400
Beneficiaries a/       60,000   82,900   110,000  124,300   170,000  207,200
- % of total enrollments    4       5.8         7      8.7        11      14.5
Total
Schools                   330      441       390       386       720      827
Classrooms              3,300    4,626     4,410    4,402      7,710    9,028
Places                132,000  185,000   175,000  176,000   307,000  361,000
Beneficiaries         180,000  225,700   210,000  220,600   390,000  446,300
- % of total enrollments    5       5.6        5       5.4        10      11.1
Boarding
Boarding units             24       32         16       16        40       48
Boarders                4,700    5,900     2,800    2,840      7,500    8,740
- % of secondary boarders   3        4          2        2         5         6
A/ Taking into account estimated double shifting.



- 50 -
Table 3.7:  PROJECT RESULTS (LOANS 2685-MA AND 2987-MA)
A. Benefits (cont.)
Primary Education          Secondary Education
Target       Actual         Target       Actual
1990     1986   1992        1990    1986   1992
Enrollments (in thousands)
Primary                      --    2,233       --      2,500    2,641      --
Lower secondary               --       --      --      1,000      935     983
Upper secondary              --        --      --        500      366     422
Total Secondary              --        --      --      1,500    1,301   1,425
Enrollment ratios
Primary                    100%       98%      --       98%        --
Lower secondary              --        --      --       92%      87%      82%
Upper secondary              --        --      --       58%      48%      58%
Total Secondary              --        --      --       77%      72%      73%
Classroom-student ratios      il       1:40    1:39        _l      1:52    1:44
- number of districts below NA I/  Al    39      24        DI       56       43
Classroom-class ratios         DI      84%     85%         DI      70%     75%
- number of districts below NA gl   DI   51      35                 57       48
Number of boarders             c/   50,000  51,400         rI  132,000 159,600
- as % of total enrollments    rl         2       2        Q/        10      11
A/ To alleviate acute shortages of facilities and subsequent critical overcrowding and double
shifting, improve classroom-student and classroom-class ratios, giving priority to the most
underprivileged districts below national average ratios.
k/ NA = national average: out of 112 districts in 1986 and 113 districts in 1992.
Q/ Provide boarding facilities to students who otherwise could not have access to education;
however, the number of boarders should remain minimal in primary education and should
not exceed 10% of total secondary enrollments.



- 51 -
Table 3.7: PROJECT RESULTS
B. National Examination Results
PRIMARY SCHOOL ACHIEVEMENT TEST (UPSR) a/
Type of School b/       Malay               Chinese              Tamil
Year      '89 '90 '91 '92    '89 '90 '91 '92    '89 '90 '91 '92
National Language c/
Comprehension        70 85  76  76      68  62  54  50       54  48  41  34
Writing              65 81  72  73       37  34  33  32      23  27  19  17
English c/            63 53  53  53       69  73  69  70      57  63  51  56
Mathematics           75 57  60  61       92  89  87  87      68  48  50  56
Chinese/Tamil Language
Comprehension         -  -   -   -      83  79  77  81       76  74  74  75
Writing               -  -   -   -       63  76  75  76      56  66  53  53
LOWER SECONDARY SCHOOL CERTIFICATE (SRP) d/
Year        1988       1989       1990       1991       1992
National average   69         69         69         77         78
UPPER SECONDARY SCHOOL CERTIFICATE (SPM) e/
Year        1988       1989       1990       1991       1992
National average   73         77         72         71         72
_/ Percentage of students achieving excellent, good or satisfactory mastery; the KBSR
covered the full six-year cycle in 1 989.
b/ By medium of instruction.
q/ The tests in National Language and English for National Schools (Malay-medium)
differ from those for the National-Type Schools (Chinese- and Tamil-medium)
because they follow a different syllabus in these subjects.
d/ Percentage of passes; 1992 was the first year that the KBSM covered the full
three-year lower secondary cycle.
_/ The KBSM will cover the full two-year upper secondary cycle in 1993.



- 52 -
Table 3.7: PROJECT RESULTS (LOAN 2685-MA)
C. Studies
Puroose of Studies as Defined at Appraisal. The Project was to support: (a) research on major issues
affecting the quality, recurrent and investment cost efficiency, and equity in education--namely teachers'
attributes and effectiveness; the management of school facilities; geographic school distribution in East
Malaysia (Sabah and Sarawak); the effects of educational inputs and socio-economic environment on
students' achievement and occupational opportunities; and education as a factor of national integration;
and (b) evaluation of major tools and outcomes of the education system--namely employment of
technical and vocational graduates; production, distribution and utilization of educational media and
textbooks; and educational evaluation and testing in schools. Studies were to be assessed on the basis
of their potential contribution to policy making, planning and monitoring of program objectives and
achievements. Five research and four evaluation studies on the above topics were identified in the Staff
Appraisal Report.
Status. The nine studies were carried out by major universities (Table 3.4), namely the University of
Science (2 studies), the University of Agriculture (2 studies), the University of Malaya (2 studies), the
National University (one study), and the University of Technology (one study). The MOE's EPRD carried
out the school mapping exercise in East Malaysia.
Results of Studies. The main objective of the studies as a whole was to establish a base for continued
monitoring and assessment of the major sectoral issues. A subsidiary objective was to test educational
research capabilities in the country. The degree to which the studies successfully addressed the specific
issues at stake, and provided reliable inputs to the MOE and the Bank to guide subsequent reforms and
lending, was variable.
(a) The study on teachers collected basic information on teacher profiles, attitudes, motivation,
satisfaction and perceptions as to effective teaching. It provided valid information on the still
prevailing teacher-centered approach, deficient classroom management and prevalence of
information questions and rote learning over inductive/deductive critical reasoning and higher level
thinking skills. This corroborated the findings on the difficulties to implement the new curricula and
helped specify changes to be brought to teacher training and curricula themselves, which are
currently under review.
(b) The study on school facilities focused on the quantity-quality dilemma in a rapidly developing
system but did not tackle the issue of their management, as originally expected. It indicated that:
inadequate designs and materials were often utilized for urgently needed large-scale new school
construction; many schools badly needed repair or even replacement due to double session and
overloaded classes; maintenance funds were insufficient; there was a severe shortage of specialized
rooms for counseling, remedial teaching and computer education; sick bays, clinics, toilets, staff
quarters and hostels were usually insufficient and in suboptimal conditions; education resource
centers were generally underutilized because they were inconveniently located and insufficiently
equipped, and regulations discouraged the use of their resources; and furniture, procured centrally,
was of poor quality. The above points and the recommendation that rehabilitation of existing
schools be considered as seriously as new school construction were taken into consideration when
the Third Primary and Secondary Education Sector Project was prepared.
(c) The school maooino exercise was of high quality and provided detailed information on the
availability, location and access of educational facilities, including teacher quarters and boarding, in
Sabah and Sarawak, two of the most disadvantaged states in Malaysia. The study led to a precise
assessment of the need for schools and related facilities, linked to enrollment growth, and
recommendations on the priority for future investment in rural areas, school size, consolidation of
small schools and related transportation needs, and multigrade teaching.



- 53 -
Table 3.7: PROJECT RESULTS (LOAN 2685-MA)
C. Studies (cont.)
Results of Studies (cont.)
(d) The study on educational inDuts, socioeconomic environment and student achievement and iob
opportunities was the best designed study, using primary data and sophisticated statistical
techniques. The major findings were that education was the most important criterion of
occupational status, and social class was more important to educational attainment than ethnicity,
despite ethnically related determinants of poverty. Subsidiary findings were that: educational
attainment was used as a proxy for ability by employers; parental attitude to education and fathers'
level of education were the most determining factors; Bumiputeras had better opportunities for
initial entry into the labor force but poor Indian students left school earlier and had comparably little
access to higher education; and women had lower examination scores and lower levels of
attendance in rural areas. These findings led to an important policy recommendation to continue to
give priority to the poor, particularly in rural areas.
(e) The study on education as a factor of national intearation made an effort to measure concepts
which are difficult to define operationally, such as the sense of national culture and identity. The
major findings were that: homes exerted a stronger influence on students' attitudes than schools;
the sense of a specific Malaysian culture was uncertain, while English-speaking culture was strong
in urban areas; friendship patterns were strongly influenced by ethnicity and native language; within
the curriculum, the National Language, which most non-Malay students readily use in secondary
education, helped national integration, as compared with history and geography which tended to
leave students uninterested; and most students believed that their own culture was the best for
themselves. These findings led to policy recommendations on the desirable emphasis to be placed
on attractive aspects of Malaysian culture, such as the National Language, and cautioned against
potentially counterproductive features, such as promoting a specific religious creed.
(f) The tracer study on vocational and technical education (VTE) graduates indicated that VTE
philosophy and objectives were still perceived with indifference or unfavorably, as less prestigious
than general academic education. This was compounded by lower admission standards, and by the
underprivileged situation of VTE in the education system, as reflected in the allocation of funds and
facilities, particularly at the secondary education level. 'However, the rapid shift to an industrial
economy and increasingly sophisticated technology, with their financial rewards, tended to
gradually modify the negative attitude of the public. The study also found that VTE had not kept
abreast with the recent development of industry and only Polytechnic students were offered
practical training in industry, while students in secondary technical and vocational schools were not.
These findings led to the following recommendations endorsed by employers, instructors and
students: VTE should continue to be provided from upper secondary IGrade 10) onwards, and
preparation to the modern world of work should be reinforced in the lower secondary curriculum;
VTE should produce graduates with general, versatile, creative skills and a sense of discipline, while
providing specific skills should be the responsibility of employers; VTE should provide an appropriate
balance between theoretical and practical shop-floor training conducive to positive labor market
entry behavior, and more business courses should be incorporated in VTE to prepare graduates for
entrepreneurship; this would require raising admission standards for motivated students and
providing avenues for advancement to higher levels of education for VTE graduates, while less
academically able students could continue to pursue skills-oriented training; a more comprehensive
evaluation method should assess leadership qualities and independence for work; employers should
be involved in VTE curriculum planning and development, and practical training; attachment of
instructors in industry should be sought, to improve the quality of instruction; and councils
comprising industry leaders, VTE staff and Government officials should be established to develop
and improve VTE. The study and the success of Bank-financed Polytechnics, which it
acknowledges, impelled the Government to approach the Bank for advice on the overall reform of
the training system, with particular regard to secondary technical and vocational schools.



- 54 -
Table 3.7: PROJECT RESULTS (LOAN 2685-MA)
C. Studies (cont.)
Results of Studies (cont.)
(g) The study on the educational media service indicated that educational media were underutilized
because too much attention was given to program production and not enough to implementation
logistics and staffing, and because of the lack of a strategy on the specific use of media. This
resulted in media not being used particularly in isolated, poor rural schools, which would most
benefit from them, for lack of workbooks, trained teachers and resource staff, suitable spaces and
equipment. The findings of the study led to valid recommendations on targeting remote rural
schools by priority, getting feedback from rural areas on their specific needs, producing taped
materials for a majority of schools where broadcasting time does not tie in with regular instruction
or which are located in shadow areas, and defining the programs that supplement or replace regular
courses, depending on the level of assistance required by teachers in specific fields. The findings
and recommendations of the study provided a precious contribution to the discussions on further
development of distance education as a component of the Third Primary and Secondary Education
Sector Project.
(h) The study on the textbook loan scheme indicated that textbooks were the most significant predictor
variable of examination results, particularly for low achievers; the books used in class were not
necessarily those provided under the scheme, which many teachers used rather as reference
materials because of their unsatisfactory quality as textbooks; and overly bureaucratic distribution
procedures and lack of storage detrimentally affected the scheme. These findings led to
recommendations on the desirable inclusion of workbooks and compensation for the additional cost
through more tightly controlled students' qualification, income tax information and legal liability, and
streamlined administration. The findings of the study are relevant at a time when textbooks are
being reviewed in light of curriculum modifications.
(i) The study on the evaluation system in Malaysian schools indicated that: national public
examinations were universally accepted standards and criteria for summative evaluation, and were
relevant to the syllabus and consistent from year to year; there were significantly more graduates in
urban schools; and high achieving schools had a significantly higher number of university-trained
teachers. As for school-based testing, the study indicated that: although most teachers were
trained in evaluation and measurement, they made up their own tests using guide books, textbook
questions and questions of previous years' public examinations; tests almost totally focused on
syllabus contents and teachers were not encouraged to test a greater variety of cognitive, affective
and psychomotor skills, despite the guidelines of the new curricula; and success at the primary
school leaving test overshadowed any other consideration, resulting in teachers teaching 'to the
book and to the test." These findings led to discussions on future testing in Malaysia during the
preparation of the Third Primary and Secondary Education Sector Project, with particular regard to
the current use of norm-referenced tests, possible introduction of criterion-referenced tests and the
appropriate statistical treatment of tests. In this respect, the study provided interesting insights
about the comparative validity of national public examinations and school-based testing as
determinants of school teaching strategies and teacher training requirements.
Evaluation. Little contact took place between most researchers and MOE which eventually questioned
the relevance of the studies' approaches and the validity of their conclusions, and was reluctant to
release the findings of two of the studies before they could be edited or qualified. In most cases, the
methodology left much to be desired: generally no explicit experimental design was utilized to provide
answers to specific questions; opinion surveys were used rather than direct measurements; most studies
presented raw data and statistical conclusions with little interpretation; a low level of aggregation made
the studies generally voluminous while the larger problems that engendered them remained virtually
unanswered. However, they contributed to giving greater attention to major sectoral issues.



- 55 -
Table 3,8A: COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS (LOAN 2685-MA)
A. Loan Agreement
Reference              Covenant                  Status/Remarks
2.02    Open and maintain for the purposes of   Complied with. The Special Account
(b)    the project a Special Account in a fully  was established at Oriental Bank in
convertible currency in a bank and on    Kuala Lumpur in 1987. Initial
terms and conditions satisfactory to the  deposit of US$8.5 million was made
Bank.                                   on January 25, 1988.
3.03    Select, appraise and implement sub-     Complied with.
projects in accordance with guidelines,
criteria and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
3.04    Award fellowships in accordance with     Complied with.
criteria and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
3.05    Monitor and evaluate, in accordance with  Complied with. However, greater
performance indicators satisfactory to the    emphasis should have been placed
Bank:                                   on unit cost analysis and output
(a) distribution of education facilities and  monitoring.
resources by district; (b) education quality
and cost effectiveness; (c} level of
education expenditures; and (d} teacher
training for primary and secondary
education.
3.06   In relation to actions taken pursuant to  Complied with. For practical
the Letter of Policy and Project         purposes, in order to coordinate
implementation: (a) by March 31 and     supervision of both ongoing sector
September 30 of each year, furnish a    projects, it was agreed to adopt the
report to the Bank; (b) by October 31 of  same dates for this project as for the
each year, review implementation and     Second Education Sector Project
agree with the Bank on performance       (Loan 2987-MA), namely:
indicators and targets to be established  (a) February 1 5 and September 1 5;
for the following year; and (c) by October    and (b) March 31 and October 31.
31, 1988 conduct a mid-term review
with the Bank.                          The mid-term review of the physical
and financial implementation was
conducted in November 1988. The
mid-term analysis of 1989
educational achievements was
carried out in April 1989.
3.07    Carry out studies according to terms of  Complied with. However, there
reference satisfactory to the Bank and   were difficulties in gaining direct
furnish to the Bank a summary and       access to university staff involved in
analysis of the findings promptly upon   the studies.
completion of such studies.



- 56 -
Table 3.8A: COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS (LOAN 2685-MA)
A. Loan Agreement (cont.)
Reference              Covenant                   Status/Remarks
4.01    Maintain records and accounts adequate to    Complied with.
(a)    reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
practices, the operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
department or agencies responsible for
carrying out the Project.
(bJ    (i)  Have the accounts referred to in        Complied with.
paragraph (a) of this Section, including
the Special Account for each fiscal year,
audited in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank.
(ii)  Furnish to the Bank no later than nine  Complied with. However,
months after the end of each fiscal year,    annual audit reports were
a certified copy of the audit report by  received behind schedule as
said auditors, of such scope and in such  follows:
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested.                              Calendar Year  Date Received
1986       May 1988
1987       July 1989
1988       October 1990
1989       August 1991
1990       February 1992
1991       October 1992
The 1992 audit report was due
by September 30, 1993, but
has not been received.
(c)    Ci)  Maintain separate records and accounts  Complied with.
for expenditures made on the basis of
statements of expenditure (SOEs).
(ii)  Retain, until at least one year after the  Comolied with.
Bank has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Loan Account was made, all
records evidencing such expenditures.
(iii) Enable the Bank's representatives to   Complied with.
examine such records.
(iv) Ensure that the audit report includes a  Complied with.
separate opinion on SOE accounts.



- 57 -
Table 3.8A: COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS (LOAN 2685-MA)
B. Supplemental Letter
Reference           Covenant                   Status/Remarks
Annex 1
A(1)       Following an analysis of past    Complied with. However, objective
deficiencies, assess the new     assessments were difficult to obtain.
curriculum and related teaching
methods to determine whether
they are expected to improve
the quality and efficiency of
education.
A(4)       Reduce class size (towards a      Not complied with. In primary education, the
maximum of 40) and double        number of overcrowded classes increased in
shifting.                        absolute terms, particularly for classes with
enrollments above 45 students. The number of
double shifting classes increased in primary
education, particularly in Peninsular Malaysia
and Sabah, while it declined in secondary
education. However, the proportion of double
shifting secondary classes remains high,
particularly in Sabah.
A(6)       Consolidate small,                Not complied with. No significant progress
uneconomical schools; improve    was made in consolidating underenrolled
multigrade teaching; and         schools, with class sizes averaging still 15.5
implement alternative designs    students. Multigrade teaching methods were
for classrooms of reduced size,   introduced into teacher training curricula but
i.e. below 40 students.          was actually practiced in less than one-third of
the 2,500 underenrolled schools in 1992.
Alternative classroom designs for small classes
were developed, but were used for only a
negligible number of schools.
B(3)      Make suitable sites available by  Complied with. However, acquisitions started
the time program                 with considerable initial delays in some States,
implementation is planned to     particularly in Sarawak.
start.
Cli)       Keep capital and recurrent costs    Complied with. However, generous
and areas per student            construction and staffing norms and standards,
reasonable.                      and low student-teacher ratios resulted in
capital and recurrent unit costs being higher
than in comparable countries of the world, and
are rising. The share of education in
government expenditures steadily increased to
a historically high 20.1% for recurrent and
18.1% for total expenditures in 1992, as
compared with 18.4% and 16.3%,
respectively, in 1 986 when the Project started.



- 58 -
Table 3.8B: COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS (LOAN 2987-MA)
A. Loan Agreement
Reference          Covenant                          Status/Remarks
2.02     Open and maintain a special account in a fully   Not complied with. However,
(b)     convertible currency in a bank and on terms  the Bank agreed with the
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.   Government that a special
account was not needed. In
early 1989, the Government
informally requested that this
covenant be eliminated but no
official notification was ever
received.
3.03     Select, appraise and implement sub-projects in   Complied with.
accordance with guidelines, criteria and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.04     Carry out training in accordance with       Comrlied with.
(a)     programs, schedules, staffing and facilities
satisfactory to the Bank.
lb)     Award fellowships in accordance with criteria    Complied with.
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.05     Monitor and evaluate: (a) distribution of   Complied with. However,
education facilities and resources by district;    greater emphasis should have
(bl education quality and cost effectiveness;  been placed on unit cost
(c} level of education expenditures; and (d)  analysis and output monitoring.
teacher training for primary and secondary
education, in accordance with performance
indicators satisfactory to the Bank.
3.06     (a) By February 15 and September 15 of each   Complied with. The mid-term
year, furnish a report to the Bank; (b) by  review of the project
March 31 and October 31 of each year,      implementation was conducted
review implementation and agree with Bank on  in May 1990.
performance indicators and targets to be
established for the following year; and Ic) by
March 31, 1990, conduct a mid-term review
with the Bank.



- 59 -
Table 3.8B:  COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS (LOAN 2987-MA)
A. Loan Agreement (cont.)
Reference             Covenant                      Status/Remarks
4.01
(a)    Maintain records and accounts adequate to   Complied with.
reflect, in accordance with sound
accounting practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of
the Project, of the department or agencies
responsible for carrying out the Project.
(bl    (i)  Have the accounts referred to in       Comrlied with.
paragraph (a) of this Section including
the Special Account for each fiscal
year, audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank.
(ii)  Furnish to the Bank no later than nine  Complied with. However, annual
months after the end of each fiscal    audit reports were received
year, a certified copy of the audit    behind schedule as follows:
report by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall   Calendar Year  Date Received
have reasonably requested.                1988        April 1990
1989       November 1990
1990       March 1992
1991       October 1992
The 1993 audit report was due
by September 30, 1993, but has
not been received.
(cc)    i)  Maintain separate records and           Complied with.
accounts for expenditures made on
the basis of statements of expenditure
(SOEs).
Cii)  Retain, until at least one year after the  Complied with.
Bank has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Loan Account
was made, all records evidencing such
expenditures.
(iii) Enable the Bank's representatives to  Complied with.
examine such records.
(iv) Ensure that the audit report includes a  Comolied with.
separate opinion on SOE accounts.



- 60 -
Table 3.f8B:  COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS (LOAN 2987-MA) (cont.)
B. Supplemental Letter
Reference          Covenant               Status/Remarks
Annex 1
A(1)     Following an analysis of past  Comolied with. However, objective
deficiencies, assess the new  assessments were difficult to obtain.
curriculum and related teaching
methods to determine whether
they are expected to improve
the quality and efficiency of
education.
AM3       Reduce class size (towards a  Not complied with. In primary education,
maximum of 40) and double     the number of overcrowded classes
shifting.                     increased, particularly for classes with
enrollments above 45 students. The number
of double shifting schools and classes
increased in primary education, and while it
declined in secondary education, the
proportion of double shifting secondary
schools and classes remains high.
A(5)      Consolidate small,             Not complied with. No significant progress
uneconomical schools; improve   was made in consolidating underenrolled
multigrade teaching; and      schools. Multigrade teaching was practiced
implement alternative designs    in less than one-third of the 2,500
for classes of reduced size, i.e.   underenrolled schools in 1992. Alternative
below 40 students.            classroom designs for small classes were
utilized for only 23 schools; the findings of a
study on the impact of this reduction on the
teaching-learning process were not reported.
B(3)     Suitable sites should be       Complied with. However, acquisitions
available by the time program  started with considerable initial delays in
Implementation is planned to  some States, particularly in Sarawak.
start.
B(5)     Per capita grants to schools   Complied with. Per capita grants were
should be increased in the 1989  increased in 1990 and 1992.
budget to make up for their past
erosion, and subsequently to
offset inflation.
C(1)     The capital and recurrent costs    Complied with. However, current
and areas per student should be   construction and staffing norms and
reasonable.                   standards and low student-teacher ratios
resulted in capital and recurrent unit costs
being higher than in comparable countries of
the world, and are rising. The share of
education in government expenditures
steadily increased to a historically high
20.1% for recurrent and 18.1% for total
expenditures in 1992.



- 61 -
Table 3,9A: BANK MISSIONS (LOAN 2685-MA)
A. Identification through Appraisal
Month/       No. of    No. of
Mission                Year       Persons  Staff-Days      Specializations
Reconnaissance        04/83          1         2           Economist
Identification'       08/83         2         10           Economist
General Educator
Preparation l         10/83         3         17           Division Chief/Economist
Economist
General Educator
Preparation 11        06/84         2         20           Economist
General Educator
Pre-Appraisal l       10/84         4         84           General Educator
General Educator
Education Planner
Economist
Pre-Appraisal 11      03/85         3         21           General Educator
Economist
Architect
Appraisal             05/85         4         84           General Educator
General Educator
Economist
Education Planner
Post-Appraisal l      10/85         4         70           Deputy Division Chief/
General Educator
General Educator
Architect
Operations Assistant
Post-Appraisal ll     02/86         2         28           General Educator
Architect
Subtotal                                  336
' Missions combined with other missions in the country or the region.
Operational start-up and pre-negotiations discussions.



- 62 -
Table 3.9A: BANK MISSIONS (LOAN 2685-MA)
B. Supervision
Month/    No. of   No. of                         Overall  Implementation
Mission    Year     Persons Staff-Days  Specializations      Status    Problems
Supervision
1       07/86        1       11       Architect               1
II'     10/86        1       14       General Educator        1
III     04/87        1       10       General Educator        1
IV      10/87        1        7       General Educator        1
V'      02/88        3       21        General Educator       1       C, M
General Educator
Architect
VI      10/88       3       33         General Educator       1      C, M, F
General Educator
Architect
VIl     11/88       1         4        Disbursement Officer
Vill'   04/89       4       36         General Educator       2       C, M T, F
General Educator
Economist
Architect
IX      12/89       3       24        General Educator        2      C, M, T, F
General Educator
Disbursement Officer
X'      05/90       4       56        General Educator        2      C, M, T, F
General Educator
Education Planner
Procurement Specialist
Annual in-depth implementation review, including review of education quality performance
indicators and statistics.
Specific review by the Disbursement Officer of problems relating to evidence of payment,
SOE ceilings and reimbursement requests. No formal supervision, thus only a back-to-
office report was filed.
Overall status ratings: 1 -- Problem free or minor problems; 2 -- Moderate problems
Implementation oroblems:  C -- Compliance with Loan conditions; F -- Finance;
M -- Management Performance; T - Technical Assistance



- 63 -
Table 3.9A: BANK MISSIONS (LOAN 2685-MA)
C.  Supervision (cont.) through Project Completion
Month/    No. of   No. of                         Overall  Implementation
Mission    Year    Persons Staff-Days  Specializations       Status    Problems
Supervision
(cont.)
Xl      10/90        4      28         General Educator       2      C, M, T, F
General Educator
Education Planner
Architect
Xll'    07/91        4      40         General Educator       2      M, F
Education Planner
Operations Officer
Architect
X1il'    04/92       3       14        Operations Officer     2      M, F
General Educator
Architect
Subtotal                   298
Completion
(PCR)
I     09/92         1       2        General Educator
11    05/93         1      11        General Educator
Total (all missions)       647
' Annual in-depth implementation review, including review of education quality performance
indicators and statistics.
Overall status ratinas: 1 -- Problem free of minor problems; 2 -- Moderate problems
Implementation problems: C -- Compliance with Loan conditions (e.g. audit reports, curriculum
assessment results); F -- Finance (e.g. disbursements, special account); M -- Management
performance (e.g. implementation delays, shortage of project management staff); T - Technical
assistance.



- 64 -
Table 3.9B: BANK MISSIONS (LOAN 2987-MA)
A. Identification through Appraisal
Month/       No. of    No. of
Mission                 Year       Persons  Staff-Days       Specializations
Preliminary Discussions  02/86        2          4           General Educator
Architect
Reconnaissance         10/86          1         10           General Educator
Identification         04/87          1         10           General Educator
Pre-Appraisal          08/87          4         68           General Educator
General Educator
Economist
Facility Planner
Appraisal              02/88          4         72           General Educator
General Educator
Economist
Architect
B. Supervision
Month/   No. of   No. of                          Overall Implementation
Mission      Year    Persons Staff-Days  Specializations       Status    Problems
Supervision
1        10/88       3       21       General Educator        1
Architect
Procurement Specialist
11      03/89        3       21       General Educator       2      C
General Educator
Economist
' Annual in-depth implementation review, including review of education quality performance
indicators and statistics.
Overall status ratinas: 1 -- Problem free on minor problems; 2 -- Moderate problems.
Implementation problems:  C -- Compliance with Loan conditions; F -- Finance;
M -- Management performance



- 65 -
Table 3.9B: BANK MISSIONS (LOANS 2987-MA)
C. Supervision (cont.) through Project Completion
Month/   No. of   No. of                        Overall Implementation
Mission      Year    Persons Staff-Days  Specializations      Status    Problems
Supervision
(cont.)
III     12/89       3        21       General Educator      2      C,M,F
General Educator
Disbursement Officer
IV      05/90       4        28       General Educator      2      C,M,F
General Educator
Education Planner
Procurement Specialist
V       10/90        4       28       General Educator      2      C,M,F
General Educator
Education Planner
Architect
Vl      07/91        4       28       General Educator      2      C,M
General Educator
Operations Officer
Architect
Vll     04/92        3       18       Operations Officer    2      M
General Educator
Architect
Sub-total                    165
Completion
IPCR)
I       09/92       1        2       General Educator
11      05/93        1       10       General Educator
Total (all missions)        341
Annual in-depth implementation review, including review of education quality performance
indicators and statistics.
Overall status ratinas: 1 -- Problem free on minor problems; 2 -- Moderate problems.
Imolementation Droblems:  C -- Compliance with Loan conditions; F -- Finance;
M -- Management performance



- 66 -
Table 3.10A: BANK STAFF INPUTS BY FISCAL YEAR
AND STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE (LOAN 2685-MA)
(in staff-weeks)
------------------------------- Stage of Project Cycle --------------------------------
IBRD                 Appraisal   Negotiations            Project
Fiscal      To         to          to                  Completion
Year     Appraisal  Negotiations Effectiveness Supervision   Report    Total
FY83        4.9                                                     4.9
FY84       13.0                                                    13.0
FY85      36.8         23.3                                        60.2
FY86        2.7        41.2       8.3         2.8                  55.0
FY87                                          6.5                   6.5
FY88                                         10.4                  10.4
FY89                                         17.1                  17.1
FY90                                         14.6                  14.6
FY91                                          6.2                   6.2
FY92                                          7.8                   7.8
FY93                                          4.8        9.3       14.1
FY94                                                     1.0        1.0
Total      57.4        64.5       8.3        70.2       10.3      210.8
Table 3.10B: BANK STAFF INPUTS BY FISCAL YEAR
AND STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE (LOAN 2987-MA)
(in staff-weeks)
----------------------------- Stage of Project Cycle ---------------------------------
IBRD                Appraisal   Negotiations            Project
Fiscal    To           to          to                 Completion
Year   Appraisal   Negotiations Effectiveness Supervision   Report  Total
FY86       0.4                                                       0.4
FY87       12.0                                                     12.0
FY88      35.3        22.4         7.0                              64.7
FY89                               4.5        13.0                  17.5
FY90                                          11.4                  11.4
FY91                                           6.4                   6.4
FY92                                           7.5                   7.5
FY93                                           7.3        8.5       15.8
FY94                                                      1.0        1.0
Total      47.7        22.4       11.5        45.6        9.5      136.8






I



IBRD A19300R
1000                                                    102                    MALAYSIA                         104
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR
STUDENTS PER CLASSROOM BY DISTRICT
PRIMARY EDUCATION, 1983
PENINSULAR MALAYSLA
THAILAND
! /  .1-own                                         Stondard Deviations *    Students
P. Langkce'&v  ba
I <uban  Padan                                                             >    2           64 - 81
t _>/TXeraps3ts_- M               Q            .               1 - 2             54-64
Koa Setar                                     ,/    0' 0-  1                             44-54
so                                                            *Pasir     Bachok      -1 -  0              34 - 44              60
Van        Si                                    a       asiryPteh    -2 - - 1            25 -34
Iuae 5l                                         acan _t<   -2                         15 - 25
TIm\ji   '~2   Balaing                      TanahMerahBesut   * Mean Value Equals 43.76
Tmrr.~ LautlZ "          1                                   Kuala                                  School District Boundaries
,   nKulim    Hulu Perak      <          \  Krai   t     _    /             --  State Boundaries
Beret Dtave ~   -e'.~                           t                                  K. Terengganu  _ ._gInternational Boundaries
a~)ru
)    J    j Ulu Kelantan     )         T
Kerian                      1 >_   >                       Ulu Terengganu   larang
Kula Kangsar
Da:n                          fQC~ , ,   /1  > )  \.  >           Dungun
Kinta  . Cameron
Dinding  Perak          _ighla _  Kuala Lipis
eng            *.,J   Koala Lipis          Jerentut          Kemanan
Pra     Batang
40                               Hilir    Padang                                                                               40-
SbakSA1  
Berna    Ulu Selangor:.          T
f   uala >         Be                                 PeTmerohn
Selangor __Betn                              ,      Pka
0    20  40  60   80  100                  omba
KI LOMETERS                              pur
Kean         Uliu) Jeeu   
Lunag\ o!   5             Kal   Pilai'<
b- 0.,>wwd t* rN    W- S" -.1.    A*              con*      R ompin
N.$-IJlof  ~/W'_ad oEf V*-f To.tlo8 0[ 80 .Serembar Jempol
N1. *                                                 DI  ~ h-    *co 01  /   rt    e  Tamp n.
100.                                               .icksoS   t  Tannp            segamat    \        ,3
DEMOCRATIC                                                elaka U.
KAMPUCHEA                                               Mole                                           Mening
J                'Ir,$VIET NAM                                 Meleka T. M
PHILIPPINES       20      \                                    ung                        20
THAILAND                                                                               Batu Pahat
Kota Ttnggi
PENINSULAR           ~~~~BRUNEI   Sabaha
PENINSULAR                         krtQ!                                                            K li
MALAYSIA         ,N    MALAYSIA                                                             Pontian    ahor Bahru
Sarawak r'INDONESIA
,,SSINGAPORE   (_                            SUMATERRA)                                         SINGAPORE',
~~I~,SINGAP0RE  ~~~~~__ ~1020                                                                1040
I N D O N E S I A                                102I1or4
DECEMBER 1985






IBRD A1931OR
1100                              1120                            1140                            1160                           1;80             DECnBER  98S
MALAYSA
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR
STUDENTS PER CLASSROOM BY DISTRICT                                                                         Kudat
PRIMARY EDUCATION, 1983                                                                                  i
EAST MALASA                                                                                      Pitas/Banggi
Stondard Deviations *     Students                                                                      I
>-  2             98 -9140                                                         Tuaran         ar
6                            1 - 2              74 - 98                                                  Kota Kinabalu ljt          eniran
60  1 1    -      4  74-98                                                   Penampang        ana                    Sandakan                   6
0        240-249Pp Tau
-1  - O    =  24 - 49                             Kuala Peny    *
Labuan       _.?    Keninga     Kinabatangan
Mlll  V      bae Equo 4a:6                                  BRUNEI
School District Boundaries *
State Boundaries                                                                          e  \                              Semporna
International Boundaries                                            I s                 Pensiangan        Tawau       (    Semporna
0   40   80  120  160  200                                                 L rban
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                    4 0
Miri/Subis
Baram
intulAu
ukah                                    ~~~~~~~~~~1160                  1180
Matu/Daro       a                                                          _  _  _  _   _  _  _ _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _
DEMOCRATIC
Sibt_ () Eelaga                                          ,^9  ll KAMPUCHEA-(
Sarikei>> x                                                                    {               VIET NAM                     PHILIPPINES
20/                                         Kanowb    t<                                                      2'~-    THAILAND
'    Lundu          c      ala    ulau                     KapitSon
u' , ,kn_                                                                                               BRUNEI  Sabah
er    ~ ~ ~ ubkMALAYSIA                                                                                                      "   '. I''
MALAYSIA
INDONESIA                                                                                   Sara wak  I
(KALIMANTAN)                                                       .)SINGAPORE-
INDONESIA                           INDONESIA
1tO     112                            114       hTsfwos              {~~~~~~~~~       ~~                ~~Sumatesra)  (Kalimantan)






IBRD A19305R
1 0o0                                                        102                                                          1I040
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR
STUDENTS PER CLASSROOM BY DISTRICT
SECONDARY EDUCATION, 1983
PENINSULAR MALAYSIA
THAI LAND
! tsvg f-  >                                             Standard Deviations *    Students
P.Langkaw! * - 
Pubans  Padang                                                                 >    2          88 - 109
P>\/\te Terasuy_- )                                MQ  t                   1 -  2            74 -  88
Kota Setar                                                                     -   1           60 -  74
6                                                                  *Pa    o     achok       -1  -  0            45 -  60                 60-
,an       S i                                    M >. r /  as  rP     teh  -2  - -1        31    -  45
Kuala                                 a~~~~        ~       ~~ ~        ~~~~cha  ( 2  17 -  31
Muda+                ,j              Tanah Merahh                                  2 =      7-3
Sp" s Md    Baling                                                   Be .nt ,e  * ksan Value Equils 59.70
Timur Laut  i C                                                   Kuaa I                                     S       D      Budre
Kulim          Hulu Perak                       Krai                                      School District Boundaries
Barat Daya '   <                                    .       e                                             --  -  State Boundaries
Barat Da,iya                         }                                        .engganu ar           International Boundaries
-  B hru                         '' 
Kerian            ,|                                          * Ulu Kelantan  Ulu Terengganu  arang
Larut   Kuala Kangsar
Dan                                                         . 
Matangt      >5      8             [ > )       \,  J        -!  .  _     Dungun
Kinta   (ameron
Dinding  Perak            Hig   ds
eng                       Kuala Lipis          Jerantut       (   Kemanan
Perak    Batang
40                                  Hilir    Padang                                                                                       40
~~' *t~, 1 : ~Raub                        Kuantan
Bena  ,lu Selangc  -
Selangor   Bentong      Temerloh
Kuala             Benton       
Selangor                         _                        ekan
0    20   40   60   80  100                     0
KILOMETEFRS                                umpur '' -   4     i' -                   /
KSan.ual               Jelebu, 0.5  y
rh$o^8Ony{>vrhew^@~rs@^:}=RsCyleLa        ga f c aPih' Rn
SW itoti. rod CA,o,., (0,sY.>, P. tpoPi,I. 0 y *00  tlOytt,toli  aSerembab je.mpol
s woJ 'soat o, p0ko trYs  ntfo,     Ynirnoofr  Y acy.yofc. of sucn byo.mop .y S.  (
Port   Rem          Tampi.               Rompti
DEMOCRATIC   !                                                                           Seelkaemat'y)
J'                ,$VIET NAM                                         Meek: Mar T./Mesn
PHILIPPINES         2      ,             {X                   Qeun                                20-
THAI LAND                                                        /Batu Pahatf  
'-fire                                                                                               <         4r    Kots Tinggi
PENINSULAR                      BRUNEIt !ea,_                                                            \Kli> 
MALAYSIA   z E     MALAYSIA  i;\Pontian   Johor Balru
Sarawak                                                    S INDONESIAamat
<;SINGAPORE  \__ /           ,                ( S~UMA TERAJ)                         '               SINGAPORE.%
ITNHD OLNAE S2I A                                    102                           u                                 0 .
DESCaSER 19U5






- -                                                                    9M ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A123115R
ltO                    11l2o  1i4  -t j60       1180           occ iOE19
1100                         112'                        114'                                                   ;,
. AYIA
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION SECTOR
STUDENTS PER CLASSROOM  BY DISTRICT                                                        Kudat
SECONDARY EDUCATION. 1983                                                               /'pitas/anggi
EAST MMAAYSK
Standard DsAviaUns    Studlenta
KotaBeu Koa 
>- 2  2        186 - 289                                          Tuara
co                       1 - 2           131 - 186                                        Kota Kinabalu l
-6                        0 - 1  .         n -131                                           Penamnpan,                  a -    Sandakan               6
-1 - O           22 -  n7ulaPn7              
-1                  - 22                                 Labuan                      Kinaangan
M. i Ve  Eqan. 77.1                                BRUNEI
/ v '<~~~0  }  0    \   r  ~Lahad Da tu
School District Boundaries                             /'!* *
State Boundaries
International Boundaries                                             c      Pensian        Taw                or
O   40  80  120 160  200                          L/mban
40                          KILOMETERS                                                                                                                40 
Miri/S.bisX 
SOUTH CHINA SEA                                                           A          ___
1160                   \ia
Matu     /      D Mukah ?s16 <18
-  Si 9   - ; BaDEMOCRATIC
Belaga              ~~~~KAMPUCH EA---
(VIET NAM                PHILIPPINES/
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
L2-ndu,            alakv i . u                                              2       HAILAND
au  Kapit                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Southt China
nd  ads r ~~~~~~.JSea
Antu,,                           --S -~'MALAYSIA                                            7/i
-  INDONESIA                  w dF              <rMALAYSIA 
INDONESIA            C-a..   -                                       /SaravekI
(KALIMANTAN) 
INGAPORE       j'-'-
'  d-__        \INDONESIA                       INDONESIA
1120                       1140                        (umalraJ                       (Kaima  '



