Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18985-TJ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3,700,000
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
FOR AN
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
May 11, 1999
Human Development Sector Unit
Azerbaijan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Aral Sea Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1999)
Currency Unit = Tajikistan Rubles (TR)
US$1 = TR900
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB            Asian Development Bank
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CQ             Consultant Qualification
DC             Direct Contracting
ECA            Europe and Central Asia Region
FSU            Former Soviet Union
GOT            Government of Tajikistan
IDA            International Development Association
IMF            International Monetary Fund
IS             International Shopping
LIL            Learning and innovation Loan
LR             Leninsky Rayon
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS            Management Information System
MOC            Ministry of Culture
MOE            Ministry of Education
MOF            Ministry of Finance
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
NS             National Shopping
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PIP            Project Implementation Plan
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
PMR            Project Management Report
PPAP           Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project
PAP2           Poverty Alleviation Project 2
PHRD           Policy and Human Resource Development (grant)
PTA            Parent Teacher Association
RFP            Request for Proposal
SAC            Structural Adjustment Credit
SDP            School Development Proposal
SOE            Statement of Expenditures
SSA            State Statistical Agency
SW             Small Works
TA             Technical Assistance
TASIF          Tajikistan Social Investment Fund
UNICEF         United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director: Ishrat Husain
Sector Manager/Director: James Socknat
Team Leader: Marit Granheim



Tajikistan
Education Reform Project (LIL)
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ..................................................................2
l. Project development objective .................................................................                                                 2
2. Key  performance  indicators ..................................................................2
B. Strategic Context ..................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ........3
2. Main  sector issues and  Government strategy  .................................................................3
3. Sector issues to  be  addressed  by  the  project and  strategic  choices .................................6
C. Project Description Summary ..................................................................7
1. Project components ..................................................................7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ................................I ... 10
3. Benefits and target population .                               ................................................................. 0
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ............................................................  11
D. Project Rationale .................................................................                                                                          12
1. Project alternatives considered  and  reasons for rejection ............................................. 12
2. Major related projects financed by the IDA and/or other development agencies ......... 13
3. Lessons  learned  and  reflected  in  the project design ..................................................... 14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and  ownership ................................................... 14
5. Value  added  of IDA   support in  this project ................................................................. 1 5
E. Summary Project Analysis .................................................................                                                                  15
1. Economic  Assessment ................................................................. 15
2. Financial Assessment .................................................................1  5
3. Technical Assessment .................................................................. 16
4. Institutional Assessment ................................................................. 16
5. Social Assessment .................................................................                                                           17
6. Environmental Assessment ............................                                                                                          18
7. Participatory approach ............................ l 8
F. Sustainability and Risks ............................                                                                                                        18
1. Sustainability ............................                                                                                                    18
2. Critical Risks ............................                                                                                                    19
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ............................                                                                                   20
G. Main Credit Conditions ............................                                                                                                          20
1. Effectiveness Conditions ............................ 20



ii
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                        21
I. Compliance with IDA Policies ........................                        21
Annexes
Annex I      Project Design Summary
Annex 2      Project Description
Annex 3      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A:  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B:  Procurement Plan
Table C:  Summary of Procurement Activities
Table D:  Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 5      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 6      Documents in Project File
Annex 7      Status of Bank Group Operations in Tajikistan - Operations Portfolio
Annex 7A     Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
Annex 8      Financial Management
Annex 9      Country At A Glance
Map IBRD 30115



Page 1
Tajikistan
Education Reform Project (LIL)
Project Appraisal Document
Human Development Sector Unit
Azerbaijan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, and Aral Sea Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
Date: May 11,1999                                   Team Leader: Marit Granheim/Michael Mills
Country Manager/Director: Ishrat Husain             Sector Manager/Director: James Socknat
Project ID: TJ-57953                                Sector: Education
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL)  Theme(s): Human Development; Poverty Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention: [X] Yes [ I No
Project Financing Data
[ I Loan      [X] Credit      [ 3 Grant      [  Guarantee     [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $5 million
Proposed terms:    [ ] To be defined      [ ] Multicurrency       [ ] Single currency
Standard Variable   [  Fixed            [] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):            10
Years to maturity:               40
Commitment fee:              Standard
Service charge:                  0.75%
Front-end fee on Bank loan:
Government                                                $0.5 m                             $0.5 m
IBRD
IDA                                                       $3.8 m           $1.2 m            $5.0 m
Other (specify)
Total:                                                    $4.3 m            $1.2 m           $5.5 m
Borrower: Republic of Tajikistan
Guarantor: Not applicable
Responsible agencies: Ministries of Finance and Education
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY, US$M):
i   Y t                     0*0 j       2001    -   Z--              - - 
Annual                   $1.5 m       $2.0 m      $2.0 m
Cumulative                   $1.5 m      $3.5 m       $5.5 m
Project implementation period: 36 months
Expected effectiveness date: 7/15/99                Expected closing date: 12/31/02
Implementing agencies: Ministry of Education; Leninsky Rayon and Dushanbe City; coordinated by the Project
Management Unit
Contact person: Minister Munira lnayatova
Address: Ministry of Education, 13 Chekhov Street, Dushanbe
Tel: 7-3772-233392/214605     Fax:                          E-mail:



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective (see Annex 1):
The main goal of the project is to improve access to high quality education as well as to raise learning
achievements of students. The main project development objectives are: (i) to develop and pilot enhanced
teaching and management methodologies; (ii) to rehabilitate 20 pilot schools in a way which could later be
replicated geographically; (iii) to reform the system of textbook development, publishing and distribution to
improve the availability of good quality textbooks; (iv) build management capacity in the Ministry of Education
(MOE), the two pilot rayon school administrations and at the pilot schools; and (v) to learn from this pilot
experience in order to apply lessons learned to broader reforms in the education sector. The project will introduce
innovation and reform in primary education in Tajikistan focussing on the primary grades and carried out through
the MOE piloting new methods of teaching, management, school rehabilitation and textbook development in a
participatory approach. It will involve the central, regional and school administrations, as well as parents,
students and the community at large.
2. Key performance indicators (see Annex 1).
The indicators for the project include: (i) the use of "active learning" techniques by teachers in the pilot
schools, and active learning included in the new curriculum by 2002; (ii) the performance levels of students in the
pilot schools; (iii) the number of children attending primary school and the number of students completing
primary education; (iv) the number of managers having completed management training, the development of
clear roles and responsibilities for managers at central and local level established nationwide, and the
implementation of them in the pilot rayons and schools; (v) 20 schools upgraded to functional standards; (vi) the
number of students nationwide who have received textbooks, and particularly the number of textbooks distributed
in 20 schools; (vii) a transparent system of writing, editing, printing and distribution of textbooks-with
participation of the private sector; (viii) parents' contributions to school resources and maintenance; and (ix) the
extent to which the lessons of the project are used by the education authorities for further design and
implementation of further reforms in the sector.
As the proposed project is a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL), emphasis is placed on learning from
the piloting of new methodologies. During the course of project implementation, additional indicators will be
added and the current indicators will be augmented relating to the development, testing and implementation of the
new teaching and management techniques, as well as to the rehabilitation of the pilot schools and textbook
development.
B: Strategic Context
Tajik3.tan is a very poor country with an estimated per capita income of around US$330. The country
has been hit hard by a combination of civil war, economic collapse and localized natural disasters. Wages and
salaries, once the primary component of family income, have ceased for most families to be the major source of
income. By the end of 1998, real wages had fallen to less than 5 percent of their 1991 level, and the average
monthly salary of teachers and health care workers was TR 2,400 (US$7)-well below the estimated cost of an
individual adult 2400 kCal minimum diet. Poverty has intensified in many parts of the country, especially in
remote and war-affected areas, with women (especially single women and female headed households), children
and orphans particularly vulnerable. Roughly 85 percent of the population of 6 million is considered poor.
Despite the severity of the situation, there is hope that poverty can be reduced over time. The
Government's approach toward poverty reduction consists of the following elements: (i) continued
macroeconomic stabilization with inflation and the budget deficit kept down, and acceleration of the privatization
process; (ii) peace and security, including repatriation and reintegration of refugees and internally displaced



Page 3
people, demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants, and physical reconstruction; (iii) land reform, farm
restructuring and additional job creation measures, especially to assist the poor and landless who do not benefit
directly from the reform measures; and (iv) protection of basic social service budgets and structural reforms in
health and education. Since the Government and United Tajik Opposition signed the peace agreement in 1997,
the Government has made good progress in stabilizing the macro environment. The IMF is supporting the
macroeconomic strategy under the Post Conflict Emergency Assistance Mechanism, and in 1998 there was
positive growth of about 5 percent.
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS Document number: 18075-TJ             Date of latest CAS discussion: June 25, 1998
The Bank's strategy in the social and human development sectors comprises four elements: protection of
the minimum necessary budget for priority services (in coordination with the IMF), investments in key activities,
support for policy change, and institution building efforts.
First, under the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC), the Government has already agreed that the health
and education sectors' share of the total government budget will not fall below an agreed minimum proportion.
The SAC agreement also includes agreements about the elimination of salary arrears, the bulk of which are
presently owed to education and health workers.
Second, there are some key investments aimed directly at the needs of the poor. In particular, the
ongoing Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project (PPAP) supports demand-driven microprojects and the programs of
three international non-government organizations (NGOs). Under the PPAP, the Tajikistan Social Investment
Fund (TASIF) is designing and implementing microprojects, with an emphasis on community participation.
Through both the microprojects and also the programs of the three international NGOs, the aim is for the PPAP to
benefit 250,000 people (5 percent of the total population). The PPAP should be fully implemented by early
FY00, at which time a follow-up project (PAP2) is planned. There is also an ongoing Post-Conflict Emergency
Reconstruction Project which is aimed at reconstruction following the end of civil war. In addition to the
proposed Education Reform Project, there will also be an IDA-supported investment in the health sector in FY00.
This project will focus on pilot testing approaches to reorient health services toward primary care delivery and
building institutional capacity to define and carry out reforms, including rationalization of services. In total, 20
percent of Bank lending to Tajikistan during FY99-FYO1 is being directed to the social sectors. In all of its social
sector project work, the Bank will continue to work closely with the other agencies which are already active there.
Third, there is also support for policy change relating to some of the key structural issues facing each of
the sectors, such as financing, decentralization and personnel management reform. This will build upon what is
already being done by the Government, for example through an increased emphasis on cost sharing by patients
(in the health sector) and by parents/students (in education).
Fourth, there is an emphasis on building up institutional capacity, partly through the IDA-supported
education and health projects, but also through coordination with the World Bank Institute program (such as was
done with the design of the PPAP) and in conjunction with other relevant donor and NGO partners. In the design
and evaluation of projects, local consultants are being used wherever feasible.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Like in other Former Soviet Union (FSU) republics, investment in social infrastructure during the Soviet
period allowed Tajikistan to reach the level of educational development in middle income countries, though it was
mainly the result of the large budget subsidy from Moscow. Prior to independence, Tajikistan had achieved a
high adult literacy rate (99 percent in 1990), almost universal eleven years of compulsory education, and a



Page 4
relatively well educated labor force (e.g., 77 percent having ten or more years of schooling). Educational
institutions at all levels have been fairly accessible to the majority of the public in terms of both location and
numbers. Unfortunately, this situation rapidly changed in the early 1990s. An increasing number of students are
now not attending school, and dropout rates are on the increase at all levels of education. According to figures
from the State Statistical Agency (SSA), in 1996, about one-fifth of boys and one-quarter of girls, aged 7- 1 8 years
old, did not attend school. In the past, illiteracy did not exist, but there are now children who cannot read or
write.
Tajikistan inherited its educational structure from the FSU, and the overall structure and programs of the
previous Soviet system appear to have been maintained with some minor revisions only in school curricula. Like
other FSU countries, Tajikistan has kindergartens, general secondary schools (which include primary grades 1-4
and secondary grades 5-9), upper secondary schools (grades 10-1 1), specialized vocational and technical schools,
and higher education institutions. At present, education is compulsory for all children up to the ninth grade,
having been reduced from 11 years in 1996. Each year, there are about 180,000 children who should go to school
for the first year. Since population growth is now around 3 percent, there is an increasing demographic pressure
on the general education system.
The MOE is responsible for overall education policy, curriculum and textbook development, and the
administration of preschool, primary, secondary, specialized secondary and higher education. The MOE is itself
responsible for financing specialized secondary education, higher education and the internats (boarding schools
for students with minor and severe mental and physical disabilities, orphanages, and sanitaria). However, the
local governments have become increasingly responsible for the delivery and financing of primary and secondary
education, even though their planning and management (including financial) capacity has been extremely weak.
In 1997, about 82 percent of actual state expenditure on primary and secondary education was funded at the local
level. While part of local government expenditures is transferred from the Central Government, local
governments cover the balance through their own resources. The Ministry of Labor is responsible for
administrating and financing vocational and technical education. Currently, there are 56 higher educational and
secondary technical vocational schools.
Table I presents a snapshot of Tajikistan's education profile with respect to the basic education indicators.
In 1992, there were 3,320 primary and secondary schools in the country, with a total of 1.3 million students. The
education system has a total of 112,500 employees from pre-school to universities. Most primary and secondary
teachers in the urban areas are women, while most of the teachers in the rural areas are men.
Table 1: Selected Education Indicators
LevelTof dbe of    Ndumcbr o   . . en T * ke                                     eentage
Preschools             792          10,000          112             11             -25.8
General Education     3,392         92,578         1,308            14              1.1
Universities            25          2,000            76            37              -19.1
Source: UNDP Human Development Report, 1997.



Page 5
The main issues now facing the sector include: (i) a deterioration of the quality of education; (ii) the need
for a change of "mentality" among teachers, students and education administration officials; (iii) inequitable
access to school; (iv) inadequate management capacity; (v) inefficiencies in funding; (vi) unsatisfactory school
facilities; and (vii) a serious shortage of textbooks.
(a) Deterioration of Education Quality. The break-up of the FSU and the subsequent collapse of the
Tajik economy has led to a deterioration of school buildings and school furniture, a lack of textbooks, highly
insufficient funds for school supervision and management, and a flight of teachers away from the profession and
even away from the country. As a result of all these factors, the quality of the education provided has
significantly deteriorated, affecting all children in the population and particularly children of the poorest families.
There is now a serious danger of a "lost generation" with little or no education at all.
(b) Needfor a Change of "Mentality". The development of democracy and a market economy in the
country represents a formidable challenge to the mindset of people who need to embrace concepts such as
personal responsibility, accountability, and proactive and entrepreneurial attitudes. Education needs to play an
important part in bringing about these changes. However, there must first be a change in the attitudes and way of
thinking among teachers. Therefore, teacher training is a critical prerequisite to the overall development and
change of mentality in education and thus in society as a whole. A related teacher education issue is the single
subject specialization of teachers beginning in grade 5. As in other FSU countries, teachers often teach in that
narrow specialization.. This practice is one of the major contributors to the low student-teacher ratio in general
education, since most single subject teachers are not able to teach "full-time equivalent" particularly in smaller
schools. Training single subject teachers as "general specialist" or "dual subject specialist" could, in time, provide
some cost savings in smaller schools due to a decline in the number of teachers in the system. More importantly,
to re-train single subject specialist teachers as "generalist" or "dual subject" teachers is particularly important in
the context of curriculum reform, since the number of compulsory courses will be reduced sharply. As a result of
a sharp reduction in the number of specialized courses, many teacher need to be re-trained to teach courses
related to their specialization.
(c) Inequitable Access to School. An important consequence of the persistent under-funding of education
is the declining access to education particularly for those children coming from poor families and rural areas. Site
visits and the available evidence indicate that an increasing number of children from poor families are unable to
attend even primary education because of the increasing direct and indirect costs of attending schools. Indirect
costs include children's work to earn money to support their families, while direct costs include payments for
schools in the form of school fees and/or expenditures for textbooks and other educational materials. The net
effect of the increasing cost of education is that an increasing number of children from low-income families or
rural areas drop out before completing school or are not even able to attend school.
(d) Lack of Management Capacity. In order to improve its management and to develop policy capacity,
the MOE needs to strengthen its management information system (MIS), and develop the managerial skills of its
staff at the central, local government, and the school levels. This will require a reassessment of the roles and
responsibilities of the MOE and how/which responsibilities are delegated to local authorities and schools and how
they are divided between MOE and other players at the national level, e.g., the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and
other agencies. In addition, it is essential to improve the quality and availability of data at all levels of the system,
so that managers can monitor those parts of the system for which they are responsible, and develop policy and
action plans based on information that is accurate and timely.
(e) Inefficiencies in Funding. Existing norms for average class size and student teacher ratios in
determining education budget result in considerable inefficiencies in allocating government funds for the
education sector. Greater local and school level flexibility in resource mobilization and allocation needs to be
accompanied by transparent mechanisms of financial accountability, which will consist of several elements,



Page 6
including an improved and relevant MIS, and the strengthening of the reporting requirements of school managers
to school councils and parent groups.
G9 Unsatisfactory School Facilities. The majority of schools in the country were constructed very poorly
and had no central heating or water supply systems although close to 25 percent of the schools were built in
accordance with Soviet standards. The disintegration of the Soviet Union, social upheavals, and the civil war had
a serious effect on the education infrastructure. Over 200 schools were destroyed and plundered in Khatlon, the
Gharm Valley and parts of the Rayons of Republican Subordination. In addition, natural disasters like
earthquakes, heavy floods and mud floods, have also contributed to the poor standard of school facilities in the
country. Some schools lack floors, have unfinished ceilings and insufficient lighting. More than 600 schools are
buildings with only two or three classrooms, and many schools have no glass in windows, broken doors, leaking
ceilings, and no electrical supply. Exacerbating this situation, schools lack furniture, and three or four children
often have to share one desk. Most school buildings have not been maintained and repaired in years, so there is a
great and accumulated need for maintenance and repair. Some of the most severely affected rayons are in need of
a comprehensive school rehabilitation program.
(g) Shortage of Textbooks. Traditionally, the Government provided all basic textbooks for grades 1-1 1
free of charge. However, since 1996, the Government has not been able to provide funds for textbook publishing
and has stopped providing free textbooks. Few textbooks are even available on the market, and the available ones
are sold at high prices by private traders. The lack of textbooks and high costs of basic textbooks have resulted in
a rapid deterioration in the quality of general education. At the same time, the textbook problem has been
exacerbated by the outdated content of textbooks in many subjects. The production and distribution system of
textbooks also needs to be reformed, as textbook publishing is monopolized by the Ministry of Culture (MOC).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
As indicated above, there are many complex issues to be addressed in the education sector. One
approach might be to try to tackle them one by one. However, this will not be an effective or feasible approach,
as the issues are intrinsically interlinked. For example, the quality of education is unlikely to be improved
significantly only through a program of teacher retraining: also necessary will be an investment in the learning
materials, in school management, and in at least basic physical improvements in some of the schools. Therefore,
the design of the proposed project is based on two main pillars: the need for some key strategic planning in all of
the identified issues at the national level, and the associated piloting of the reforms in two selected areas of the
country. The strategic planning relates, for example, to the teacher retraining program, to the development of
new forms of school and sector management, to changes in the ways textbooks are produced and utilized, and to
the revision of standards for school buildings. In each of these areas, the plan is to design a national framework,
and then to learn from the first phase of implementation through the proposed project. The project has also been
designed as a relatively small and quick pilot project, and with as much flexibility of design as possible. In
addition, the project includes a considerable amount of monitoring and evaluation from which lessons of
experience will be learned.
The selected areas for the project comprise Leninsky rayon (chosen due to its accessibility to Dushanbe,
its relatively safe security situation and the interest of the local authorities there) and some adjacent parts of
Dushanbe. In these selected areas, a total of about 20 pilot schools will be supported through the project. These
schools were selected partly through a competitive process, in order to identify the schools and local communities
most interested in and willing to carry out reforms; and partly on the basis of need, in order to try to contribute
(albeit modestly) to poverty alleviation efforts. It is hoped and expected that other external agencies (including
perhaps the Asian Development Bank-ADB) may be interested in providing parallel assistance to the education
reform program through investing in a similar way in other rayons of the country.



Page 7
As part of the project design work, a social assessment was carried out. The main conclusion of that
assessment is that the project must address factors such as the inadequate school facilities, textbooks and the
extremely low salaries for teachers. The project design also needs to take account of the poverty of many
families, and the increasing size of the student drop-out problem. Therefore, the project will address the physical
reconstruction of schools, the procurement of textbooks and the involvement of parents in maintaining and partly
financing their children's schools. Another conclusion of the assessment is that the project must address the
strong need for a change in mentality. The Minister of Education and students agree about the need for
interactive teaching methods that encourage creativity. However, the changes in the curriculum are not
understood well by the teachers. It is, therefore, a main area of the project to train teachers and managers in new
methods of teaching and managing. The focus will be on the need for teachers to be proactive and take
initiatives, and on a participatory approach and the involvement of students.
In parallel with the implementation of the project, overall budgetary issues (and especially ensuring the
payment of teachers' salaries and protecting the proportion of the budget allocated to the education sector) will
continue to be addressed through the structural adjustment program. Maximum use is also being made of the
experiences of other donors, and in particular UNICEF, which has already been investigating the potential for the
establishment of a textbook revolving fund. Regarding teacher retraining, there has also been close liaison with
the Aga Khan Network, with a representative of the Aga Khan University working with the project design team in
order to share experiences of teacher retraining programs within the region. As part of the project development, a
meeting was organized of all external agencies (such as the Open Society Institute, the Red Cross, Save The
Children US and Save The Children UK) working in the education sector in order to coordinate programs. In
order to assist the design work and also to start the process of building up planning capacity within the Ministry
of Education, a PHRD (Policy and Human Resource Development) grant was approved by the Government of
Japan. Inter alia, this was used to encourage the counterparts and the client to share and learn as much as possible
from the education programs of other countries in the region.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed project description and Annex 3for detailed cost estimates):
The total cost of the project is $5.5 million, and the local contribution will amount to $0.5 million. Of this
amount, half will be made available in kind by the Government through the provision of the accommodation for
the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and through contributions from local communities through their support
for schools within the pilot rayons. The balance ($230,000) of the local contribution will come from the MOF
through the budget: the equivalent of $50,000 will be approved in CY99; $100,000 in CY0O; $60,000 in CY01;
and $20,000 in CY02.
The following three components will be implemented under the project: (i) capacity building; (ii)
improving education assets and materials; and (iii) project management, and monitoring and evaluation.



Page 8
A. Capacity building
1.  Training                                   Training,
*   Training for teacher trainers              Technical            0.15    2.7      0.15            3.0
*   In-service training teachers in pilot schools  Assistance,      0.11    2.0      0.11            2.2
*   Parents meetings in pilot schools          and study            0.03    0.5      0.03            0.6
tours
2.  Management training
*   Ministry of Education
*   Rayon Ed. Administration                    Training,           0.22    4.0      0.22            4.4
*   School Administration                       Technical
assistance
and study
Total:                                         tours                0.52    9.5      0.52           10.4
B.  Improving educational assets/materials
I . Refurbishment and equipment
*   Pilot schools: Civil works and equipment   Training             2.09    38.0    1.93            38.6
*   MOE: Equipment                              Technical           0.02    0.4      0.02            0.4
*   Pilot rayon: Civil works and equipment      assistance          0.08     1.5     0.07            1.4
*   Teacher training centers/teacher retraining  Civil              0.17    3.1      0.16            3.2
center                                     works,
goods
2. Textbooks
*   Printing of 18 titles                       Training            1.65    30.0    1.65            33.0
*   Textbook distribution                       Technical           0.05    0.9      0.05            1.0
assistance
Goods
Total:                                                              4.06    73.8    3.88            77.6
C.  Project Management
*   Setting up efficient project management     Training            0.78     14.2    0.46            0.92
*   Monitoring and evaluation                   Technical           0.09     1.6     0.09            1.8
*   Audit                                       assistance          0.05    0.9      0.05            1.0
Total:                                                              0.92    16.7    0.60            12.0
TOTAL:                                                              5.50     100          5.0          100
(a) Capacity Building
Teacher training. This is a key component in achieving the project objectives, as it is needed to bring
about active learning in the classrooms, as well as a greater understanding and openness to decentralization,
community involvement and participation.



Page 9
More active teaching methods. The approach will be to select and train about 20 teachers with suitable
skills as teacher trainers, using overseas trainers during three 5-day training courses. The trainers' courses will
have four main elements: personal development in independent learning; teaching and learning methods; planning
school improvement; and team and training development. The courses will be linked to action planning and
work-based learning which is subsequently mentored and monitored. These trainers will then train about 900
teachers from the 20 pilot schools, using two different approaches: 10 of the schools will have a school-based
training strategy (in which 6 training days each year are provided in-school, with the training days linked to
classroom and school action plans), and the other 10 schools will have a 6-day center-based course each year
(with the benefits of inter-school dialogue, but the disadvantage of a less school-focused course). Most types of
training will be linked to action plans. Training will also be provided for school principals. In addition, parents
in each of the pilot schools will be invited to meetings to involve them as "participatory parents", who are
partially responsible for the financing of the schools and for exerting influence on the governance and
maintenance of the schools.
Management training. This will be provided through the establishment of three management support
units, one in the MOE and one in each of the pilot rayons, equipped with basic information technology and office
equipment. Local and international specialists will provide training in general management subjects such as: (i)
management responsibilities; (ii) the effects of various management styles applied in specific organizational
cultures; (iii) setting and implementation objectives; (iv) decision making; (v) management information systems;
(vi) budgeting and finance; and (vii) recruiting and deployment of human resources and development and
implementation of incentive systems. In addition, management training for school managers will cover specific
education subjects such as the roles and responsibilities at the central and local levels of the education sector;
school laws and regulations; curriculum; control and assessment of teachers and student performance and
feedback; organizing the school year; time schedules and the allocation of classrooms; cooperation with parents
and the community; fund raising; management of student flows; developing, implementing and using an MIS in
education; and the procurement, delivery and revolving of materials and equipment. The training courses will be
for about 5 officials from the MOE, 10 managers from the two rayon administrations, 40 principals and vice-
principals from the pilot schools, 2-4 teacher trainers, and 2 officials from the PIU. In addition, there will be
study tours for the selected staff.
(b) Improving Education Assets and Materials
Refurbishment and equipping of the pilot schools, the MOE, the pilot rayons and the teacher training
institution. The MOE and the education officials in Dushanbe and Leninsky selected 20 pilot schools based on
needs and competition. Fifty percent of the schools (seven schools in Leninsky and three schools in Dushanbe)
were selected on a competitive basis, based on the school plans for improving activities and the involvement of
communities, parents and teachers. These plans include proposals for the involvement of communities to
enhance the delivery of education, to improve attendance levels of school children and to facilitate the access to
schools by poor children. The remaining 50 percent of schools (eight in Leninsky and two in Dushanbe) were
selected because of urgent need and poverty targeting. This selection was based on the potential of these schools
to change and improve. The selection committee included the MOE, the local government (hukumat) and the
Pedagogical University.
The rehabilitation of the pilot schools will only be up to a functional level, with priority being given to the
following: roof repairs, insulation from the weather; repair and replacement of windows; installation of heating
systems and lighting; provision of adequate water and sewerage systems; repair of toilets; and painting of walls
and floors, etc. The criteria for the work to be done will include economy, simplicity of materials, use of local
materials wherever possible, and sturdiness. The work will be carried out in school year 1999 -2000, so that as
many as possible of the rehabilitated schools will be ready for use by September 2000. The average cost of the
work done per school is estimated to be in the region of $75,000. In addition, furniture will be provided, at an



Page 10
estimated cost of about $20,000 per school. Minor rehabilitation will also be carried out to the teacher retraining
institute and two pilot training centers, and information technology equipment will be provided to the MOE itself.
Textbooks. The project will support the introduction of an innovative textbook rental system in the 20
pilot schools. Under the scheme, sets of textbooks will be rented out to students for one school year with them
paying about one third of the cost. The money collected will go into a special fund which will pay for the
purchase of further copies of textbooks. Particularly poor children such as orphans, will be able to borrow sets of
textbooks free of charge, with the cost of the "free rentals" being met by the local authority. The storage of
textbooks in the selected schools over the vacations will be addressed through the school refurbishment program,
as each classroom will have cupboard space and shelving provided as part of the renovations. The operation of
the rental scheme in the pilot schools will be monitored, starting with school year 2000-2001 and finally evaluated
in school year 2002-2003. The project will finance the publication or reprinting of about 18 mainly primary
school textbooks and teacher guides which are not covered by the ongoing UNICEF project (which provides for
printing paper for 9-10 titles). Almost all of the relevant textbooks and teacher guides are ready for publishing,
having gone through the MOE's testing and manuscript approval system. The project will purchase finished
textbooks through international competitive bidding. The contractor that is awarded the contract will be
responsible for paying the authors their fees for publishing their textbooks, as laid down in the Authors' Law of
Tajikistan. It will edit, design and illustrate new textbooks and teacher guides, and draw up production
specifications for all books covered by the project. In addition to the textbooks for the pilot schools, the project
will pay for the MOE to distribute textbooks to the other 78 rayons in Tajikistan.
(c) Project Management
Project coordination. This component will finance local consultant services, equipment and project
audits. The salaries of the PIU director and any other local consultants working on the implementation of the
project as well as PIU operating costs will be financed by the project. This component will also provide for the
monitoring and evaluation of the project.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed project is responding to the commitment of the Government generally, and the MOE in
particular, to carry out reforms in the following areas: (i) the replacement of the current hierarchical and specialty
driven approach to education with a more general, creative and flexible compulsory education; (ii) the
rationalization of schools and the redefinition of school functions; (iii) the introduction of innovative ways to
retrain teachers, principals, school administrators and teacher tutors; and (iv) the move from budgeting by norms
to budgeting by inputs, and the development of new ways to fund primary education (particularly through
community participation). No policy reforms are explicitly expected or made as a condition of this learning
project. Hov,-ver, it is anticipated that this operation will have a catalytic function in supporting and continuing
the ongoing education policy reform agenda in Tajikistan. In addition, there will be some significant institutional
reforms, both in the MOE and also in the local governments in Leninsky and Dushanbe. The project will be
monitored closely, and the lessons of experience will be fed into the reform process. The Tajikistan lending
program includes a follow-up Social Sector Rehabilitation Credit Project in FY01, and the design of that project
will be based, inter alia, on the achievements of the Education LIL.
3. Benefits and target population:
There will be three types of benefit from the project: (i) students in the pilot schools will have a better
quality of education; (ii) teachers in the pilot rayons will have improved knowledge and skills for use in the
classrooms; and (iii) there will be an increase in the capacity of the MOE officials and of the education authorities
in the pilot rayons to plan and carry out reforms. More specifically, the students in the pilot rayons, and specially



Page I 1
the poor students, will have an improved access to high quality education, an improved learning environment, and
an improved quality of learning. Students in other parts of the country will also benefit from an improved supply
and provision of textbooks. Teachers in the pilot rayons will have an improved working environment, better
knowledge and skills from in-service training, improved motivation and more interest from their co-operation
with parents. The various managers in the MOE, the pilot rayons and the schools will have improved
management knowledge and skills, better procedures and more modem equipment for schooling.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Overall responsibility for project coordination and implementation will lie with the PIU, located in the
MOE. During the entire duration of the project, the PIU could have the following staff: a director (selected
through a fully competitive process), an education and monitoring specialist, a procurement specialist, a financial
management specialist, accountant, a MIS/computer specialist, an interpreter, a secretary and a driver. The
project director will report directly to the Minister of Education and has been appointed under the terms of
reference, experience and qualifications satisfactory to the International Development Association (IDA). There
will also be a Steering Committee for the project, chaired by the Minister of Education, and with representatives
from the MOE and other relevant ministries, the two rayon authorities, and the university or private sector. The
responsibility for the rationalization of education at the rayon level will be shared between the MOE, the two pilot
rayon administrations and the 20 pilot schools. The implementation period for the project will be three years.
All procurement will be carried out according to the usual World Bank procedures. A special account has
already been opened for the ongoing PHRD grant, and another account will be opened in a commercial bank
acceptable to the IDA for the project account. The PIU will be directly responsible for financial management
during the project, on behalf of the MOE. The MOE was responsible for managing the PHRD grant of
US$245,000, and has transferred this responsibility to the PIU. The PIU has an accountant who is responsible for
financial management and control under the PHRD and the project itself. The accountant reports to the PIU
director. Technical assistance will be made available to the PIU in project and financial management during the
first year of project implementation. This will include training workshops for the PIU and project coordination
staff at the local level. The project team has mobilized grant funding from other sources to provide procurement,
accounting and financial management expertise within the PIU. The PIU is to receive basic office equipment
(printer, fax, copier) out of PHRD funds. Further equipment will be financed through the project.
A basic project financial and accounting program will be developed prior to effectiveness, with support
from IDA, and in coordination with other existing PIUs in Tajikistan. Given the project size, this will be kept as
simple as possible. The system to be designed will have, inter alia, an accounting and internal control system with
the capacity to record and retrieve in a timely manner. The system will: (i) reliably record and report all assets,
liabilities, and financial transactions of the project; and (ii) provide reliable financial information for managing
and monitoring project activities. The accounting system will be classified by component, reflect the sources of
funds, and be broken down into different types of expenditures for the project. Further, it will provide
information on the receipt and use of funds, and will be able to produce financial reports comparing budget with
actual expenditures at any given time. The system will be capable of providing financial data to measure
performance when linked to the outputs of the project.
The PIU will maintain consolidated accounts for the project and will ensure appropriate accounting of the
funds provided. The PIU will be responsible for preparing Project Management Reports (PMR) on a quarterly
basis, and furnish to IDA not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a PMR for such period,
which: (i) sets forth actual sources and application of funds for the project, both cumulatively and for the period
covered by the report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the project for the six-month period
following the period covered by the report; (ii) shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the
credit during the period covered by the report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the



Page 12
credit during the six-month period following the period covered by report; (iii) describes physical progress in
project implemenltation, both cumulatively and for the period covered by the report, and explains variances
between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and (iv) sets forth the status of procurement
under the project and expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the credit, as at the end of the
period covered by the report.
Tlhe Minister of Education (or her designate) and the PIU director will be authorized to sign withdrawal
applications, authorizing direct payments from the credit account and/or requesting replenishment of the special
account.
The PIU will be responsible for ensuring that the financial statement, special account, and Statement of
Expenditure (SOEs) are audited by an independent auditor, acceptable to IDA, in accordance with standards on
auditing that are acceptable to IDA. The annual audit will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for
Financial Reporting andAuditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). The auditing
assignment terms of reference will be prepared based on Annex XVIII of the World Bank Financial Accounting
Reporting and Auditing Handbook (January 1995), including reporting obligations of the PIU for the auditors,
auditing standards, the management letter, statement of access to the records and personnel available to the
auditor, etc. The audit report will include a separate opinion for SOEs against which disbursements have been
made or are due to be made from the credit, and SOEs which will be included in the audit report accompanying
the financial statements. The audited financial statements of the special accounts, and SOEs of the preceding
fiscal year, includinig a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements made against certified statement of
expenditures, will be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of the Government's fiscal year. The
estimated overall budget for auditing under the project will be around $45,000, which appears to be reasonable,
given the size of the project, and existing in-country auditing capacity. Auditing services will be procured on a
least-cost basis, and packcaged as a recurring audit, with no requirement for a new engagement letter, except in the
special circumstances.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
(a) Chioice of a LIL. The LIL is an appropriate response to the conditions in the education sector in
Tajikistan, as there are emergency conditions which require urgent action, where structural reform is clearly
needed, but where the client is new and there are many innovations to be made and evaluated. A LIL will allow
for the introduction of innovative methods in education by the MOE, the selected rayon governments and the
local communities. These innovations include community management of schools and new approaches to cost-
sharing; new approaches to teaching training; reconfiguring the teaching environment through refurbishment of
classrooms; and the production and distribution of textbooks using new methods of production and distribution.
Monitoring and evaluation will be emphasized to make the lessons applicable to future policy and sector reform.
(b) Choice of two districts for the pilot. It is planned for the project to work in one urban district (in
Dushanbe) and in one fairly rural one (Leninsky). There will be about 20 pilot schools in these rayons (about 5 in
Dushanbe and 15 in Leninsky). Although testing innovations in the MOE and in only two rayons limits
somewhat the ability to generalize the results to other rayons, Tajikistan is a relatively small country; and
including more rayons in the pilot project will complicate the project design and increase the danger of over-
loading the limited design, implementation and evaluation capacity of the MOE.
(c) Inclusion of the textbook component. The printing and distribution of textbooks for primary
education in Tajikistan might not be considered to be a "typical" investment component of a LIL. Nevertheless,
as confirmed by the social assessment, the shortage of textbooks is so extensive that it is necessary to address this



Page 13
constraint as part of the package of investments in the project. Tajikistan is in danger of having a growing
proportion of the population illiterate within a relatively short timeline unless textbooks are provided. Therefore,
the proposed project aims to fund some textbooks, particularly to test out reform options in this important area.
(d) Demand-side financing. As Tajikistan is a poor country, with maybe as many as 85 percent of the
population below the poverty line, consideration might have been given to including some specific "demand-side"
financing arrangements in the project design. This could have been done, for example, through the inclusion of
special scholarships for the poor. For several reasons, however, it was decided not to do this. First, the reasons
for school non-attendance are unclear. It does seem that the opportunity cost of labor is one of the reasons,
especially with many poor people having to go to pick the cotton crop. But it also appears from the social
assessment that there is still plenty of demand for schooling and that a primary reason for low attendance is the
perceived (and actual) low quality of schooling available. Efforts made to improve teaching and the availability
of learning materials may, therefore, be expected to have a significant effect on attendance. The Government is
also tightening up the regulations about the use of children for cotton-picking. With the extent of poverty, it will
also be difficult to target those most in need. In addition, the changes to be made at the local level in encouraging
communities to provide financial support to schools will take into account the particular needs of the poorest
groups. Finally, with the extremely limited management capacity, there was considerable concern about making
the design of the project more complicated. Nevertheless, the link between poverty and school attendance will be
monitored through the implementation of the project, and lessons learned in this important area will be
incorporated in the proposed follow-up project in FY01.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Sector Issue                     Project                          Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)     Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed               Ongoing (IDA):
*  Institution Building Technical
Assistance Project (TA)              S                S
*  Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project     S                S
*  Structural Adjustment Credit I        U                S
.  Post-Conflict Emergency               S                S
Reconstruction Project
*  Emergency Flood Assistance            S                S
Planned (IDA):
.  Health Project (LIL)
Other development agencies   UNICEF
*  Aga Khan Foundation
*  Open Society Institute
*  Islamic Development Bank
*  Save the Children US
*  Save the Children UK
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons of experience need to be considered from three perspectives: (a) the lessons of other projects in
Tajikistan; (b) the lessons of other education projects elsewhere; and (c) the lessons of other LILs. Concerning
the first perspective, some of the main general lessons from working in Tajikistan include the following: (i) the
need for high-level support and political commitment for key policy reforms and project design; (ii) the
realization that institutional reforms take time to achieve; and (iii) the emphasis that needs to be given to staff
development and training, including particularly on Bank-related procedures, for efficient project implementation.
One implication, in particular, is the need for careful planning of ways to strengthen institutional capacity,
especially as it is clear that the Government is often reluctant to use loan or credit funds for foreign technical
assistance.
Although IDA has not invested directly in the education sector in Tajikistan before, it has supported a
small education component (carried out by Save the Children UK) in Vakhsh District through the PPAP. That
component has recently been evaluated, and the main findings were that school committees can be successfully
established, that communities can be mobilized to assist with the funding of local schools, and that a variety of
approaches at the school level can be used to promote better school attendance by children. There is also an
education component in the Post-Conflict Emergency Reconstruction Project, and that it is now supporting the
rehabilitation of selected schools in the Karategin Valley.
Second, the lessons of other education projects suggest that the most successful reforms are the ones
involving the community in the management and operation of the schools. Parents and communities need to
participate in the decision making process at the school level. The teaching and learning process has also become
more relevant, and teachers need to be given in-service training programs as well as incentives to perform well.
Model schools have been used successfully in some reform programs as a basis for innovations in teacher training
programs. However, the experience of countries in a similar situation to Tajikistan indicates that expectations for
a large and immediate development impact through a single project cycle is probably unrealistic.
Third, a recent interim report to the Board suggests that adaptable lending (including through LILs) is
fulfilling original expectations. The numbers of loans approved, the purposes for which the instruments are being
used, and the cost and timeliness of responding to borrowers' requests for the loans are all on track with
expectations. Feedback from borrowers and staff shows that the LIL approach does respond to perceived needs.
Borrowers have indicated that the LIL is allowing them to build capacity and stakeholder consensus, as well as to
develop prototypes for future application, in order to become prepared for a follow-on program. Seven borrowers
specifically cited the need for an urgent response to development issues as a factor in choosing a LIL.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government is well aware of the deterioration of critical services and of the need to develop service
systems that are sustainable in the new economic environment. The Government is also aware of the importance
that the public places on these issues. For example, survey data indicate that improved education is the second
highest priority of the population-exceeded only by the concern over security. The Government is prepared to
move quickly to change the existing system. It is prepared to restructure the delivery mechanism for all major
public services and the MOE has been working on strategy documents to reform the education sector. Some
experimentation is already taking place through cooperation with donors and NGOs. Indications of commitment
for this project have been expressed in clear statements by the Prime Minister, as well as by the Minister of
Education who came to Washington DC personally and requested support from IDA.



Page 15
5. Value added of IDA support in this project:
While there are several other agencies already active in the education sector, the extent of external
support is quite limited so far. The Aga Khan Foundation program is small and limited to Gorno-Badakhshan,
whereas UNICEF support has mainly been for the provision of textbook paper and materials. There is a limited
capacity within the MOE to carry out reforms, and no other agency has indicated possible support in this area. It
is likely that the ADB will be interested in working in the education sector in due course, but Tajikistan only
joined the ADB in 1998, and there has not yet been time for the ADB to do any project design work. IDA has
already been working on education budgetary issues in the context of the ongoing SAC. There are also important
links between the proposed Education Reform Project and other ongoing or planned projects financed by IDA
(such as the PPAP now under implementation and the Health Project now under design). More broadly, the
World Bank has extensive knowledge and experience of the education sector of many other countries in the ECA
region, and is, therefore, in a good position to provide access to comparative experiences.
E: Summary Project Analysis:
1. Economic:
Fiscal sustainability is a key consideration in the design of the project design. The current level of public
expenditure on education is so low that even a modest increase in operating costs may not be sustainable beyond
the life of the project. However, the planned investments in the project (such as the retraining of teachers and the
strengthening of management systems) will have low recurrent cost implications, and there is already an ongoing
dialogue with the Government to ensure that the basic education budget is protected and increased as much as
possible. This is being done through ongoing agreements relating to the budget in the SAC. In particular, the
local government education budgets in Leninsky and Dushanbe will be analyzed and monitored carefully
throughout the project.
In addition, technical assistance will be provided to the MOE to review the budgeting process and to
analyze possible measures to move the budget system away from the normative approach, and hence, to improve
the efficiency of education spending, especially in the pilot rayons. This might be done, for example, through
changes in pupil/teacher ratios, in the scope of work of teachers personnel/non-personnel expenditures, non-
teaching staff/teaching staff ratios, and the use of boarding schools, etc. The plans for the rehabilitation for the 20
pilot schools will take into account possible ways to increase efficiency. The cost-effectiveness of different
methods of teacher re-training will also be examined through the project.
2. Financial:
The project will explore in the 20 pilot schools possible new measures to involve communities and
parents in the maintenance and financing of schools. The school rehabilitation plans will also include measures to
develop a new school accounting system. Special attention will be given to possible school financing reform
measures which could improve the allocation of education spending to the poor, and reduce the cost of education
to the poorest population groups-for example, through a reduction in the cost of basic materials to students and
to encourage poor students to attend school. Part of the evaluation plan for the project will include an assessment
of cost recovery mechanisms, financial control policies and accountability systems.
To date, the financial management of the MOE appears to be weak, which is one of the reasons for
establishing the PIU with staff with financial management skills. To provide further training to the PIU
accountant, a foreign consultant is being recruited, using PHRD grant for two months immediately after



Page 16
negotiations, who will provide hands-on-training to the newly recruited local accountant in setting up the
accounting system for the PIU.
By effectiveness, an acceptable financial management system will have been in place. Disbursements will
start using traditional disbursement methods-Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) reimbursements, direct
payment, etc. After the PIU has gained experience with the financial management system and the reporting under
project management reports (PMRs), and provided that an improved financial management system is reviewed
and found satisfactory by IDA, the project may move to PMR-based disbursements.
Disbursements will be made against SOEs for contracts for: goods less than US$50,000 equivalent; works
less than US$50,000 equivalent; and all operating expenditures. This documentation will be made available for
the required audit as well as to the Bank supervision mission, and will be retained by the PIU for at least one year
after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. The
processing, disbursement and monitoring of the allocations of the proceeds of the Credit and Borrower
counterpart financing will be managed by PIU, in coordination and consultation with the MOF.
The existing financial management system is not adequate as per Annex 4-C of the LACI Implementation
Handbook. As a result, an action plan was developed during the appraisal mission for strengthening the FMS to
an acceptable level prior to project effectiveness (see Annex 8).
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and operate, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, a special account, denominated in US Dollars, as well as project
account in local currency. The authorized allocation for the special account will initially be US$250,000.
3. Techinical:
The governments of many countries have initiated reforms aimed at enhancing both the quantity and
quality of education. While the focus of these reforms has generally been on system-wide changes and
innovations (e.g., curriculum reform, textbook development, the re-structuring of teacher education), attention in
recent years has shifted from the system to the school level. This has led to a distinct trend towards focusing
reform efforts at a level nearer to the "action": the school itself. The development of school clusters, the greater
involvement of the local community in school affairs (and vice versa), and the movement in many countries
towards more decentralized, school-based management and innovation are manifestations of this global trend.
Within this broad perspective, however, there are many technical questions to be resolved. These include: (i) the
definition of appropriate "functional level" standards for facilities and equipment; (ii) the appropriate modalities
for the production and distribution of textbooks, and particularly the operational mechanisms for textbook
revolving funds; (iii) the appropriate standards for learning outcomes; (iv) the contents and methods for teacher
retraining; and (v) the most cost-effective way to retrain teachers.
4. Inistitutional:
In order to improve its management through the delegation of responsibilities (with more self-government
and more rights to local authorities and schools) and to develop policy capacity, the MOE is interested in
strengthening its MIS, and develop managerial skills of its staff both at the central, local, and school level. This
will first require assessing the role of the MOE and how responsibilities are divided between the MOE and other
actors at the national level (e.g., Ministry of Finance), between the MOE and the local district level, and between
the local district level and the schools. Secondly, it will require improvement of the quality and availability of
data at all levels of the system, so that managers can monitor those parts of the system for which they are
responsible, and develop policy action and action plans based on information that is accurate and timely. There
are also some institutional issues relating to the appropriate technology needed for efficient and modern



Page 17
management, and the level of capacity building in the MOE. The project will provide some important investment
in this area; including to the MOE itself, the pilot rayons and the pilot schools (plus one teacher training center in
each of the pilot rayons and the Teacher Retraining Center). However, it will be critical to assess the impact of
the first phase of support and to gauge the need for further investments in a possible later stage of project
assistance.
5. Social:
As part of the project preparation work, a social assessment has been carried out. The preliminary
conclusions have been summarized earlier, with the findings based on discussions with principals and teachers,
with local authorities, and with parents and students themselves. The social assessment throws important light on
local attitudes and views, but there are many questions which will need to be considered further as the project is
implemented. Some of these questions relate to teachers, and especially to: (i) the teaching of children (what are
the obstacles to teaching children the way that teachers were trained to do; how are teachers taught to teach
children and do they feel that they need to change the way they teach children); (ii) the appropriateness of the new
teacher training methods for their job (what they see as challenges for the future), reasons for attendance or non-
attendance of students, and the number of lessons taught (in theory and in practice); (iii) the internal management
of schools (what are the physical or organizational or personnel constraints that allow or prevent teachers from
teaching; the lack of textbooks or other teaching guides; the lack of school supplies; the timetables, structures of
lessons and number of teaching shifts); and (iv) the time devoted by teachers to subsistence outside schooling,
non-attendance due to survival and coping activities, and the extent and patterns of informal payments.
Other questions relate to the local authorities, and especially: (i) the constraints that they face for example
due to norms or instructions from above or lack of budgetary discretion, the teacher recruitment/selection
policies, support and interest from the MOE and other management; (ii) the salaries and working conditions of
teachers (are salaries paid or not paid, the adequacy or inadequacy of salaries, remuneration from other sources);
(iii) their view of the problems of schools, and changes that they will like to see made or to make themselves; (iv)
the reasons for school non-attendance; (v) the expectations of the MOE; and (vi) how the local authorities will
like to see parents involved.
Still other questions relate to the views of the parents, focusing on such issues as: (i) their attitudes
towards schools, the scope for more parental involvement and in what ways can they be more involved; (ii) the
reasons for sending children to schools (including fees, work, differences between girls and boys, school policies
such as uniforms); (iii) their expectations from schools (what do they expect from schools, are they sending
children to school for decent jobs, etc., if they are not sending them to schools why not-what are the
constraints); (iv) desired changes (what do they expect children to receive from school-materials like textbooks,
quality of teaching); (v) the needs of schools and teachers; (vi) how much independence should schools have
from the local authority; and (vii) how best to help the poor and what parental contribution should be (what do
they do at the moment, how do they see their role, what could they do in the future individually and as a
community).
Finally, the views of students are also important, focusing on such issues as: (i) their attitudes towards
teachers and variation among teachers; (ii) school conditions (heating, lighting, latrines and playgrounds); (iii)
their reasons for non-attendance (themselves and other students); (iv) attitudes towards school meals; and (v) the
most important changes needed to improve schools or learning. For all of these issues, it will also be important to
monitor the impact or otherwise of the project investment.



Page 18
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category      [I A   []  B   [XI C
The project environmental assessment rating is Category C. There are no major environmental issues in
this project, although there is a need to address environmental issues connected with minor civil works (school
refurbishment) included in the project, such as the need to ensure adequate water supply and sanitation for project
schools.
7. Participatory approach:
The design of the project has been based on a participatory social assessment, which was carried out by a
team of six national researchers working in conjunction with the MOE. Interviews were conducted with the MOE
staff, officials in the selected rayons, school principals, teachers, students, drop-outs from school, parents, and
other community members. The implementation of the project will emphasize the participation of parents and
local communities in many ways: for example, in school financing, in encouraging mentality change by teachers,
and in supporting active leaming by students.
Parents and teachers will be central to the decision making processes at the school level. Parent-teacher
associations (PTAs) including those of the ten need-based selected schools will further develop their existing
plans into school development proposals (SDP). These SDPs will be the basis for the basic functional level
refurbishment and operations of the schools. These individual 20 SDPs will be developed through an iterative
process by PTAs and education officials. The SDPs developed by PTAs will be submitted to the education
officials for discussion. They will then reach an agreement on the elements to be included for the final proposals
to be submitted to the PIU. The community participation specialist consultants hired by the PIU will facilitate this
process. Consultation meetings will be held at the school sites at a time when a maximum number of parents and
teachers can participate. The purpose of these meetings will be: to explain the project to the PTAs, including the
schedule for implementation and procurement procedures; and to explain how tendering for reconstruction will be
done at the schools and by PTAs under the supervision of the PIU procurement specialist following World Bank
guidelines (using the approach for procurement already adopted by the TASIF). During these meetings PTAs
will elect representative members who will be responsible for operating the PTA fund and for coordinating
activities between the PTA and the PIU. There will also be a PTA fund and the PTAs will decide on its usage.
The PTAs will also decide on the type of contribution (minimum of ten percent of the total cost of refurbishment)
which they will make for the refurbishment of the school.
Several efforts have also been made to involve key stakeholders, including donors, in the project design
process. For example, in late 1998, there was a major meeting in Dushanbe of all extemal agencies involved in
the education sector; a representative of the Aga Khan Network participated in the project preparation mission;
and discussions were held in both Dushanbe and Almaty with UNICEF officials to discuss that organization's
experience in the education sector in Tajikistan. During the appraisal of the project, there was a round-table
discussion of interested donors and there will also be a project launch workshop in July 1999.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
As noted earlier, fiscal sustainability is a key consideration in the design of the project design. In
principle, all education institutions are financed by the state budget. However, a combination of revenue shortfalls
and the loss of the budgetary subsidy from Moscow resulted in substantially fewer resources devoted to the social
sectors, including education, after independence. The share of educational expenditures in GDP and in the total



Page 1 9
government budget were respectively about 2.1 percent and 13.9 percent in 1997. In addition, at least until
recently, there has been a serious problem of problems of arrears in the education budget, partly due to the
absence of a fully functioning treasury system. For example, at the beginning of 1998, the stock of government
arrears was about 1.8 percent of GDP. Revenue collection is usually uncertain, budget revisions are common at
the central and local levels, and spending plans are often approved only for a period of a few months. The sharp
decline (until recently) in public spending on education contributed to a rapid deterioration in the quality of
education and increased inequalities in education at all levels. Informal payments by parents have been
increasing to cover a larger share of recurrent expenditures over the past several years, but these private payments
are not reflected in the budget data.
According to the 1999 budget, the priority expenditure areas are wages, health, education and the social
safety net. Moreover, the Government has committed itself to allocating at least 22 percent of the total budget to
the education and health sectors in 1999. In 1998, the budgeted figure for the education sector was about 13.4
percent of the total, and the Government has indicated that it plans to increase the share of the education budget in
the total government budget to 15 percent in 1999. The Government has also committed itself to clearing all
arrears (especially of wages), and to ensuring that the budget shares for these social sectors are actually realized
in practice.
Against the financial background depicted above, these are concerns that even a modest increase in
operating costs may not be sustainable beyond the life of the project. In particular, funds will be needed for the
following: (i) to maintain the refurbished schools and new equipment, and to ensure an appropriate inventory
necessary for quality teaching; (ii) to continue with an adequate quality of teacher in-service training for teachers
to change their mentalities and to introduce new teaching methods in their classrooms; and (iii) to continue
support for the teacher training colleges and the Pedagogic Institute and Science Center. In total, these costs are
not very large, and (as noted above) there is already an ongoing dialogue with the Government to ensure that the
basic education budget is protected and increased as much as possible. This is being done through ongoing
agreements relating to the budget in the SAC. An education economist has already been recruited to work with
the MOE on these issues. In particular, the local government education budgets in Leninsky and Dushanbe will
be analyzed and monitored carefully through the project. The project will explore in the 20 pilot schools possible
new measures to involve communities and parents in the maintenance and financing of schools, and in the
utilization of textbooks through the planned revolving fund. Based on the rather successful experience of the
Save the Children UK program under the PPAP, it is felt that there is a reasonable chance that ways may be found
through the project to improve the chance of sustaining project investments.
2.  Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
*ik                       $                        v            -  - Rk,  ! M ne , re
From Outputs to Objective
Civil war violations in the pilot areas          S       Involve all parties in the project
No sustainability of results                     S       Build community support for system of revolving fund for
textbooks and local-level school financing
Parents cannot afford to send their children to school  S  Provide school meals in some of the pilot schools
From Components to Outputs
Teachers working other jobs and not present in   S       Involve teachers in the process
classrooms
Teacher resistance to new teaching methods       M       Involve teachers in the process
Not enough trainers                              S       Plan for the retraining of the teachers developed in
conjunction with the training college
MOE and rayon officials lose interest in the project  M  Investment in institutional capacity; possible follow-up
project; flow of information on project results to decision
makers in the MOE and the rayons.
Overall Risk Rating                              S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 20
In Tajikistan, the most significant risk for project implementation and the sustainability of benefits is that
security violations in the pilot areas could impede future actions necessary to implement the project development
objectives. The peace situation in the country will be carefully monitored, and the project will seek to involve
parties from all sides in the conflict, inform the public and build community support as much as possible.
Another risk stems from the lack of experience by the MOE in project implementation and competitive
procurement and this will be addressed through the provision of technical assistance and training for the PIU.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Fees have already been introduced on an informal basis in primary and secondary education in the form
of parental contribution to schools or payments for specific extra-courses. Although the state (both central and
local) cannot by itself finance all of the costs of basic education at a good quality level during the present time of
an extremely difficult economic environment, there is need for extreme caution concerning the potential equity
effects of this policy on children, and particularly those coming from the poorest families. Although the reasons
for non-attendance at school are not fully clear, there is at least anecdotal evidence that many poor families are
not able to send their children (especially daughters) to primary school because of the increased direct and
indirect costs of basic education. The project will be experimenting with ways to encourage more community
participation in the financing of schools at the local level, but it will be critical for this to be monitored carefully
and for any possible negative effects on equity to be addressed without delay. The Government and particularly
the MOE are well aware of the importance of this.
There may also be controversy about the eligibility of local publishing and printing companies in
Dushanbe to compete for tenders for the textbooks under the project. At the present time, none of the firms is
privatized. The biggest, situated in the center of the city, has a director who is in favor of privatization. It is quite
likely that the availability of project funding, coupled with the restriction that only private firms will be eligible to
compete, might encourage the firm to privatize.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditionis:
(i)   The MOE will have signed a project implementation agreement with Leninsky Rayon and Dushanbe
City, indicating their respective roles and responsibilities under the project.
(ii)  The MOE will have established the PIU and staffed it with individuals of adequate experience and
quaiifications, including at least the project director and the procurement specialist.
(iii)  An adequate financial management system for the project is in place, which is consistent with agreed
steps under the financial management action plan, including recruitment of an international financial
management specialist.
(iv)  The MOE will have submitted a project implementation plan and will have prepared bidding
documents for the rehabilitation of the first four pilot schools.
(v)   The MOE will have selected an international consultant to design the student assessment and
evaluation plan.
(vi)  Auditors acceptable to the IDA will have been selected and appointed;
(vii) The Government will have deposited the equivalent of $50,000 in the project account as the
Government's counterpart cash contribution for CY99.



Page 21
Dated covenants:
(i)   The MOE will open and properly maintain a special account in a commercial bank, acceptable to IDA.
(ii) The PIU will submit a six month work plan and budget for review (by June 30 and December 31 of
each year).
(iii) The PIU will prepare quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) which detail project financing
needs and sources for the subsequent quarter of project implementation, and describe the financial
situation of the project in terms of actual versus planned expenditures for each project activity;
(iv) The PIU will ensure that the financial statement, special account and the SOEs are audited by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to IDA, and
will submit an audit report within six months after the end of the audited fiscal year (not later than June
30 of each year).
(v)  The PIU will draft a mid-term review report by December 31, 2000, and will have carried out a mid-
term review jointly with IDA by June 30, 2001.
H: Readiness for Implementation
The proposed project is the first IDA-funded project in the education sector in Tajikistan. In October
1998, there was a preliminary mission to review the possibility of designing a LIL to support reforms in the
sector; and there was a project preparation mission in December 1998. A Japanese (PHRD) grant for $245,000
(executed by the MOE) was signed in January 1999, and since then, consultants have been assisting the
Government in the following areas: social assessment, school mapping, management strengthening, economic
analysis, teacher retraining and textbook development. In addition, a further amount of about $100,000 has been
provided by the Swiss Government through a trust fund agreement, and this money will be used to continue with
the provision of external assistance in a variety of areas.
The project has been prepared according to an accelerated timetable, suitable for a LIL, and the MOV is
now working hard to finalize project plan details and commence implementation. The Director of the PIU has
been appointed after a competitive selection process. MOE is about to identify suitable office accommodation for
the PIU, and the value of this will comprise half of the Government's counterpart contribution to the project
I: Compliance with IDA Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader: Marit Granheim             k
Sector Leader: James Socknati.      f  
Sector Manager/Director: J. Christopher Lovelac
Country Manager/Director: Ishrat Husain   'j J



Page 22
Tajikistan: Education Reform Project (LIL)
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Sector-related CAS Goal:            Sector Indicators:                  Sector/Country Reports:            (from Goal to Bank Mission)
(follow up to Goal)
Enhancing critical social services  .   Number of students completing   .   Annual statistics/report        Successful conclusion of peace
(Performance of primary education        primary education                                                  process
improved)                           *   number of children attending    *   Annual statistics/report
primary school                                                    Parents can afford to send their
.   satisfactory levels of         .   Reports on student              children to school
achievement in mathematics,        achievement testing
civics and reading
Follow-on operation:                *   % of schools using more active   *   Survey /report
New teaching methodologies applied       teaching techniques
nationwide in an institutional way  .   " active learning " included in  *   Analysis of the new curriculum
the new curriculum
Project Development Objective:      Outcome / Impact Indicators:        Project Reports:                   (from Objective to Goal)
New teaching methodologies applied   *   %  of lessons in the 20 pilot  Observation/survey/report           Successful conclusion of peace
and pilot-tested in 20 schools           schools  where  teachers  use                                      process
"active learning " techniques                                     Teachers get their salaries
l   % of better performance by     Student achievement testing         regularly
students within pilot schools                                     New teaching methods accepted
than the average student in                                       among majority of teachers
other schools                                                     Educational authorities maintain
support to the introduction of the
new teaching methodology
A program for replicating the
pilot is designed and implemented
MOE has enough institutional
capacity to implement national
reform
Output from each component:         Output Indicators:                  Project Reports:                   (from Outputs to Objective)
A. Capacity building
1. Training
*   Training for teacher trainers   *   900 teachers trained in "active    PIU reports                      Successful conclusion of peace
*   In-service training for teachers     learning" methods by year                                          process
in pilot schools                    2001.
e   Management-training for school  *   % increase in the school        Supervision mission reports         Positive attitude from teachers
principals                          resources due to parents                                           and managers and local
.   Parents meetings in pilot            contributions as to August -01                                     administration
schools                        *   % of parents involved in        PIU reports
maintaining pilot schools to a                                    Parents and students are
functional level - 02.                                            supportive to the introduction of
.   Teacher training college       Teacher training college evaluation    the new learning methods.
identifies best practice for in-    report
service training and has drafted                                  Human resources available in a
a dissemination plan                                              timely manner
Teachers attend classes
Students attend classes
Successful conclusion of peace
process



Page 23
2. Management training              *   Clear roles and responsibilities   Supervision mission reports     Defined functional standards are
.   Ministry of Education                at central and local level                                        sufficient for the application of
.   Rayon Ed. Administration             established nationwide and                                        the new teaching methodologies
.   School Administration                implemented in the pilot rayons
Teacher training institutions            and schools                                                        Parents are interested in
*   Content of information         Supervision mission reports         participating and have availability
disseminated from the MOE to                                      to do so
the schools includes
international experiences and
updated evaluation of the
impact of the new teaching
methods
.   5 MOE officials completed      PIU reports                         Guidelines for procurement of
management training and use                                       public works are followed strictly
the new skills                                                    by all involved players
.    10 pilot rayon officials      PIU reports
completed management                                              Timely disbursement of World
training and use the new skills                                   Bank and client funds
*   Periodical meeting between     PIU reports
MOE and pilot rayon                                               Selection of rayons included in
institutionalized                                                 the pilot not politically motivated
*   20 school principals completed   PIU reports
management training and use
the new skills
*    Periodical meeting between     PIU reports
MOE and pilot rayon
institutionalized
B. Improving educational
assets/materials
I .  Refurbishment and equipment    .   Number of schools upgraded      PIU reports
.   Pilot schools: Civil works and       to functional standards
equipment
.   MOE: Equipment                  *   MOE equipped                    Supervision mission
.   Pilot rayon: Civil works and    *   Pilot rayon offices refurbished
equipment                           and equipped                   Supervision mission
.   Teacher training/ retraining    *   Centers for pilot teacher
institutions: Civil works and       training refurbished and       Supervision mission
equipment                           equipped
2.   Textbooks
*   Printing of 18 titles           *    1 8 titles of textbooks
distributed to all primary     PIU reports
school students in all pilot
schools by-00
*   % of students nationwide who    Supervision mission
have received textbooks        Survey
*   A transparent system of
writing, publishing, printing  Review
and distribution of textbooks -
with participation of private  PIU reports
sector is established.        Supervision mission
C.  Project Management
.   Setting up efficient project
management
.   Monitoring and evaluation



Page 24
Project Components/Sub-           Inputs: (budget for each          Project Reports,                 (from Components to Outputs)
components:                       component)
A.  Capacity building
1. Training
.   Training for teacher trainers         0.15
.   In-service training teachers in       0.11
pilot schools                        0.03
.   Parents meetings in pilot
schools
2. Management training                    0.22
.   Ministry of Education
*   Rayon Ed. Administration
.   School Administration
*   Teacher training institutions
B.  Improving educational
assets/materials
I. Refurbishment and equipment
.   Pilot schools: Civil works and        2.09
equipment
.   MOE: Equipment                        0.02
.   Pilot rayon: Civil works and          0.08
equipment
*   Teacher training centers/             0.17
Teacher retraining institute:
Civil works and equipment
2. Textbooks
*   Textbook policy and publishing        0.08
*   Setup revolving textbook fund         0.08
*   Printing of 24 titles                 1.65
.   Textbook Distribution                 0.05
C. Project Management
.   Setting up efficient project          0.78
management
*   Monitoring and evaluation             0.09
*   Audit                                 0.05



Page 25
Tajikistan: Education Reform Project (LIL)
Annex 2: Project Description
By Component:
1. Capacity Building:   US$0.52 million
A. Training of teacher trainers: Includes training of 20 selected teachers as teacher trainers, using overseas
trainers, via a 3x5 days training course. The course will have four main elements linked to action planning
and work-based learning:
* personal development in independent learning
* teaching and learning methods
* planning school improvement
* team and training development
B. In-service training for teachers in pilot schools: The trainers will work with the teachers in the pilot
schools on two pilot models:
1. Ten schools opt into a school-based training strategy in which 2x6 training days are provided in-
school, delivering personal development in independent learning, teaching and learning methods and
planning of school improvement; with training days linked to classroom and school action plans.
2. Ten schools opt into a 2x6-day center-based course (with the benefits of interschool dialogue but with
much less time devoted to the problems of each school), delivering personal development in
independent learning, teaching and learning methods and planning of school improvement; with
training days linked to classroom and school action plans.
C. Management strengthening: The proposed strategy includes the establishment of three management
support centers: one in the Ministry of Education and one in each of the two pilot rayons. In these centers,
international specialists will provide hands-on training to education managers, using their own experiences
and data from their jurisdiction. Such a strategy will empower local education authorities and contribute to
decentralization of the education system. The tentative content of the management training will be:
General Management Competence
* Management responsibilities
* The effects of various management styles applied in specific organizational cultures
* Setting and implementing objectives
* Decision making
* Management Information systems
* Budgeting and finance
* Recruiting and deployment of human resources
* Development and implementation of incentive systems
Core competence fields in education - the management perspective
* School laws and regulations
* Curriculum



Page 26
e  Control and assessment of teacher and student performance and feedback
*  Organizing the school year, the schedules and the allocation of classrooms
*  Cooperation with parents and community, fund raising
*  Management of student flows
*  Developing, implementing and using a Management Information system in education
*  Procurement, delivery and revolving of materials and equipment
The training will be organized as two similar 16-day courses over a period of 6 months. The
target group for the training will be 20 pilot school principles, 10 school administrators from 2 pilot
rayons, 5 managers from the Ministry of Education, 4 teacher trainers and 2 participants from Project
Working group. During the course, the participants will work in groups across functional levels as well as
in peer groups.
D. Parents meetings in pilot schools: Parents in each pilot school will be invited to meetings to take
responsibility for part of the funding, exerting influence on the governing and maintenance of the school.
2. Improving Education Assets:        US$4.1 million
A. Pilot Schools: Refurbishment and Equipment
Twenty selected pilot schools will be rehabilitated to functional levels by the beginning of the school year
2000. This includes:
*  Watertight roofs
*  Insulation
*  Watertight and unbroken windows
*  Functioning heating and lighting
*  Functioning and hygienic water/sewerage
e  Functioning and hygienic toilets
e  Maintained and painted floors and walls
*  Outdoor projects: Maintained playgrounds and fences
*  Modern furniture which will allow rearrangement in the classrooms for interactive teaching, small
work groups and creative problem solving.
a  Basic general educational equipment as blackboards, chalks, textbooks, stationary
*  Basic educational equipment for special subjects.
B. Pilot Rayon Offices (management support centers): Refurbishment and Equipment: Rayon
education offices of Dushanbe and Leninsky rayons will be upgraded to a basic functional standard and
will receive necessary computers and other basic office equipment.
C. MOE (management support center): Equipment: The MOE will receive necessary computers and
other basic office equipment.
D. Pilot Teacher Training Centers/Retraining Institute: Refurbishment and Equipment: Two centers in
two teacher training /retraining institutes will be upgraded to a basic functional standard and will receive
computers and other basic office and training equipment.
E. Textbooks: Print and distribute textbooks to all students in grades 1-4 the 20 pilot schools.
Set up Revolving Textbook Fund and implement it in the 20 pilot schools. The scheme is to rent out sets
of textbooks to students for one school year and charge them about one third of the cost. The money
collected will go into a special fund that will purchase of further copies of textbooks. Each parent who



Page 27
paid the rental sum will receive a receipt which will give the child right to borrow textbooks in another
school, if the child changed schools. Poor and socially unprotected children will be able to borrow sets of
textbooks free of charge. The cost of the "free rentals" will be met either by the MOE or by the local
authority (hukumat), if it agreed. The cost will not be added to the rental sum of paying parents as it is
critical to keep the rental amount as low as possible.
In addition to the textbooks for the pilot schools, there will also be support for the publishing and printing
of an agreed list of about 18 mainly primary textbooks for other schools elsewhere in the country.
3. Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation:         US$.92 million
Project management. Overall management and coordination of project activities will be provided by this
component, including salaries, equipment and study tours, project procurement, maintaining project accounts,
carrying out monitoring and evaluation of project progress, preparing disbursement applications, arranging
timely project audits as well as preparing timely reports on project implementation.
Monitoring and evaluation. Monitoring and evaluation is a crucial part of the proposed project because of
its learning and innovation aspects. For this reason, the project will support not only the development of a set
key indicators to monitor on-going performance of the project (Annex 1) but also several studies to evaluate
the effectiveness of several innovative elements. The project will also finance several key evaluation studies
about the performance progress and effectiveness of the project:
i  the effect of different methods of teacher training on teacher performance in the classrooms
*  the effect of different teaching methods on student performance
*  education cost and finance study
-  social assessment in the pilot rayons about the effectiveness of the project
*  textbook writing, publishing and distribution study
These studies will provide insights about the effectiveness of the project as a whole, help identify successful
elements of the project for wider replication in a future project in the sector, and prepare follow-up operations
in the sector.
There will be a detailed mid-term review in the middle of year two of the project implementation to assess the
overall performance of the project. The review will include the following:
*  the status of pilot school physical functionality
*  the use of new teaching methods in pilot school
*  the availability and use of textbooks in pilot school
*  the status of MIS in schools/pilot rayons/MOE
*  the status of parents/community participation in pilot schools
*  the status of primary education textbook distribution in the country



Page 28
Tajikistan: Education Reform Project (LIL)
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
1. Capacity Building                                 209. 8          263.0           472.8
2. Improving Educational Assets                     3,103.3          590.0           3693.3
3. Project Management
665.1           200.0           865.1
Total Baseline Cost                                 3,978.2         1,053.0         5,031.21
Physical Contingencies                            170.2            51.4           221.6
Price Contingencies                               196.2            52.7           248.9
Total Project Costs                  4344.7          1,557.1         5,501.7
Civil Works                                         1363.6           429.4           1793.0
Goods                                               2191.4            100.1         2291.5
Consulting Services/Training                         346.6           580.1            926.7
Incremental Operating Costs                          443.1            47.4           490.5



Page 29
Tajikistan: Education Reform Project (LIL)
Annex 4: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement Arrangements
This section describes the procurement arrangements under the Education Reform Project.
The procurement of goods and services of the IDA financed components will be procured in accordance with the
Bank's procurement guidelines. The project elements, their estimated cost and procurement methods, are summarized in
Table A. Other procurement information, including capability of the implementing agency, estimated dates for
publication of GPN and the Bank's review process is presented in Tables C.
1. Goods.
Goods (approximately US$2.29 million) consisting of textbooks, computers hardware/software, office
equipment school furniture/supplies and materials will be grouped to the extent possible and considering project
objectives, in package sizes that will encourage competitive bidding. The following methods of procurement will be
followed:
(i)  International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures will be used for contracts above
US$100,000 equivalent for a total amount of US$1.65 million for the procurement of textbooks.
(ii)  International Shopping (IS). These procedures will be used for the purchase of vehicles, computers,
office equipment, supplies and materials for training centers and regional administration offices for
contracts with an estimated cost of US$100,000, for an aggregate of US$480,000.
(iii)  National Shopping ( NS). These procedures will be used for contracts up to US$30,000 equivalent for an
aggregate of US$  10,000, for the purchase of, furniture and equipment for schools.
2. Civil Works
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will be used for rehabilitation works (schools) estimated to cost
less than $150,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1.61 million. Bank's Regional SBDs and
Evaluation forms will be used.
3. Selection Procedures for Consulting Services
Contracts for Consulting Services required for the Project will be awarded following the World Bank
Guidelines "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997, revised in
September 1997 and January 1999. Contracts will be packaged to include a combination of related skills and services,
in order to make them attractive and increase competition as well as to reduce the number of contracts to be managed
by the PIU. The following methods of procurement will be followed:
(i)  Individual Consultant will be hired in accordance with Section V of the Guidelines. Individual consultants
will be used throughout the life of the project for small assignments of short term duration such as training,
surveys, monitoring and evaluation for an aggregate amount of US$880,000 selected through advertisement and
on the basis of expressions of interest.



Page 30
(ii) Least Cost Selection procedures will be used for auditing services contracts less than or equal to the amount of
US$0.05 million for three years.
(iii) Incremental Operating Cost: PIU salaries, office supplies and operational expenses of the PIU funded on a
declining basis and on the basis of annual approved budget - aggregate amount $0.17 million
4. Notification of Business Opportunities
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the "Development Business" around the period of
Loan Negotiations and will be updated. For NCB contracts invitation for bids will be advertised in the national gazette
and in a major local news paper (in the national language).
5. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Scheduling of Procurement. Prior to the issuance of any invitation for bidding, the proposed procurement
plan (Table B) for the project will be reviewed by the PIU, and the Bank will be advised of any revisions for its review
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of Annex I of the Procurement Guidelines. Procurement of goods
and services for the project will be carried out in accordance with the agreed procurement plan which will be modified
as appropriate and included in the progress reports subject to Bank review.
Prior review
(a) Goods: Prior review of bidding documents, including review of evaluation, recommendation of award and
contract will be conducted for all ICB procedures; and the first two contracts for each of the National and International
Shopping contracts regardless of their value.
(b) Civil Works: The first two NCB contracts regardless of value, and all contracts with value above $100,000.
(c) Consulting Services: Terms of reference for all consulting assignments will be subject to prior Bank review.
Request for Proposals (RFP), short lists, terms and condition of contracts as well as evaluation reports and
recommendation for award will be prior reviewed by the Bank for contracts for individual consultants above $20,000
and firms above $50,000. All documents and recommendations involving sole source contracting will be subject to
Bank prior review.
After award of contract, should any material modifications or waiver of terms and conditions of a contract
resulting in an increase above 15% of the original amount, the Bank will reserve the right to prior review of such
modifications (including modifications to contracts for consulting services).
6. Custom Duties and Taxes: All goods specifically imported for the project will be exempt from custom duties and
taxes. Foreign technical assistance specialists will be exempt from the Government's normal personal income tax.
Assurances to this effect will be obtained during Negotiations.



Page 31
Annex 4, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Total Cost
Expenditure Category                         Prcur     Method                  (includin
iCB          NCB .        Other   -ontingencies)
1. Works                                             1.79                           1.79
(1.61)                        (1.61)
2. Goods                                 1..65                     0.64             2.29
(1.65)                    (0.64)           (2.29)
3. Consulting Services & Training                                  0.93             0.93
(0.93)          (0.93)
4. Incremental Operating Costs                                     0.49             0.49
(0.17)          (0.17)
Total
1.65        1.79          2.06             5.50
(1.65)      (1.61)        (1.74)           (5.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
IDA     International Development Association
ICB:    International Competitive bidding US$1.6(5 million)
NCB:   National competitive Bidding (US$1.79 million)
IS:     International shopping (US$0.48 million)
NS:    National shopping (US$0.1 I million)
IC:     Individual Consultants ( US$0.88 million)
LC:    Least Cost Selection: US$0.05 million



Page 32
Annex 4, Table 13: Procurement Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Description       Type    Number of   Estimated       Procurement      Date of        Invitation      Submission            Signing                    Contract
packages       Cost         method           GPN           to bid           of bids            Contract                   Completion
A. WORKS             CW          25            1.61           NCB                       7/30/99 1'         9/30/99 -     11/15/99-4/15/2000        3/15/2000 -7/30/2000
package and      3/30/2000
one/week there
after
2/28/2000
B. GOODS
Tcxtbooks             G            1         1.65          ICB            5/30/99         9/1/99          11/1/99          3/1/2000            7/1\2000-7/1/2000
Instructional Material    G
2         0.05           NS                            9/1/99          9/1/99           10/30/99                 7/30/2000
G
Office comp/equip./
vehicles                           4          0.48         IS                            8/15/99          9/30/99            10/30/99           12/15/99-7/1/2000
Office furniture      G                        0.11         NS                            8/15/99          9/30/99            10/30/99                12/15/99
C. Services
Monitoring, evaluation,
& management
training               TA          4          0.28            IC            5/30/99        7/15/99          9/10/99         1/1/00-7/1/01          7/30/2002
Local Seminars &
workshops              TR          8          0.23            IC                           7/15/99          11/15/99         12/30/99            6/30/00-6/30/02
Teacher Trainers               20 pilot
Training              TR       Schools        0.23            IC                           7/15/99          11/15/99         12/30/99             6/30/00-6/30/02
Study Tour            TR          47          0.14            IC                           7/15/99          2/28/2000        4/15/2000              12/30/2002
Audits           C           1         0.05            LC                            7/31/99          9/15/99         I/1/00-7/1/01           7/30/2002
OPERATING COST       Other                      0.17
Total                                       5.00
G= Goods; TA =Technical Assistance; TR =Training; ICB -International Competitive Bidding; IS = International Shopping; NS =National Shopping; ; IC =Individual Consultant, LC = Least Cost
Other = for operating cost on the basis of annual budget.



Page 33
Annex 4, Table C: Summary of Procurement Activities
S.:tion 1: Procuroment leview:
ICB                 NCB                    IS                    NS                 Minor             Other       Percentage of loan amount
Works           Methods      subject to prior review
Works                             Above $150,000      Below $150,000
procurement thresholds
Individual and aggregates                                Aggregate:
$1.65 million
Goods
Procurement thresholds:           Above $100,000                                 Below                 Below                                                        85%
Individual and aggregate                                                        $100,000               $30,000
Aggregate:
$1.65 million                               Aggregate             Aggregate
$0.48 million        $0.11 .million
Prior Review                            All                Above                 First 2               First 2
Packages         $100,000 & first         Contracts              Contracts
two contracts
Consultants'                          QBCS                  QBs               Fixed Budget           Least Cost           Consultant         Single-             Individual
(firms)                                   (firms)                                 Qualifications       Source             Consultants
Aggregate                                                  Aggregate:
$0.05 million                                               $0.88 million
Prior Review                                                                                                                                                TOR and qualifications
for all assignment
Contracts above
20,000
Ex-post Review                  Ex-post review mechanism: Review carried out in accordance with Para.4 of Appendix I of the Bank's Guidelines and reviews during supervision missions.



Page 34
Annex 4, Table C: Summary of Procurement Activities
(Continued)
Brief statement
Overall responsibility for Project management and coordination will rest with the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established in the Ministry of Education of The republic of Tajikistan. The PIU wil
be supported by Technical Assistance consisting of: Procurement Specialist, Financial Management and/Information Systems Specialists. The PIU has already acquired some experience in managin
and administering the consultant contracts for project preparation financed by the PIIRD grant. The RFP for the technical assistance to the PIIJ is in the process of preparation and a Request fo
Expression of Interest for that assignment will appear in the May 30 issue of Development Business.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or                                                 Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions for the first year ready by negotiations
Country Procurement Strategy Paper status                                                Yes        No El x
A CPAR for the Republic of Tajikistan has not been completed. For this Project, the Govemment will  RFPs and bidding documents for the first year of project implementation are being prepared
follow the agreed Bank procurement procedures as described in this document and in the Development  and will be ready by credit effectiveness.
Credit Agreement.
Estimated date of Project Launch  Estimated date of publication of   Indicate if there is procurement subject to   Domestic Preference for Goods  Domestic Preference for Works, if
Workshop                        General Procurement Notice           mandatory SPN in Development Business                                 applicable
Yes     No X                          Yes  x   No
8/99 (date wvill be determined based          5/31/99                                                                                      Yes   D       No X
on the Board Date)
Retroactive financing
Yes 0        Explain:
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
All procurement related documentation that requires Bank's prior review will be cleared by Procurement Accredited Staff (PAS) and relevant technical staff. No packages above mandatory review
thresholds by RPA are anticipated. The PIU of the Borrower will maintain complete procurement files which will be reviewed by Bank's supervision missions. The Procurement Plan will be updated
annually. Procurement information will be recorded by the PIU and submitted to the Bank as part of the quarterly and annual progress reports. This information will include: revised cost estimates for
the different contracts; revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts; as well as compliance with aggregate limits
(within 15%) on specific methods of procurement. A Management Information System (MIS), with a procurement module will help the PIU monitor all procurement information.
Co-financing.. 1N'one
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the
Project: Tajikistan: Learning and Innovation Education Project    Name: Seyoum Solomon  Ext: 3-2393
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: There is no procurement capacity at the Resident Mission in Dushanbe. The PIU will have to rely on expatriate technical
assistance support as provided in the project plan.



Page 35
Disbursement
The proceeds of the credit will be disbursed in accordance with the. guidelines in the
"Disbursement Handbook". The credit will be disbursed over a period of three years. The project
completion date will be July 31, 2002 with a credit closing date of December 31, 2002. The disbursement
categories and amounts and percentages to be financed under each category are presented in Table D.
1.    Use of statements of expenses (SOEs). Supporting documentation will be retained for review by
periodic Bank supervision and external auditors. All of training and incremental operating costs would
be handled through SOE. Some of the proceeds of the loan are expected to be disbursed on the basis of
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) as follows: (a) civil works costing less than US$ 100,000 equivalent
each contract; (b) goods costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each contract; (c) services for contracts
for (i) individuals, costing less than US$20,000 equivalent each; (ii) firms costing less than US$50,000
equivalent each;(d) training; and (e) incremental operating costs. Disbursing against civil works, goods
and services exceeding the above limits will be made against full documentation and respective
procurement guidelines. SOE's will be certified locally by the PIU. Related documentation in support of
SOEs will not be submitted to the Bank, but will be retained by the PIU for at least one year, after receipt
by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement is made. This documentation
will be made available for review by the auditors and Bank supervision missions. If ineligible
expenditures, including those not justified by the evidence furnished, or amounts in excess of agreed
disbursement percentages are financed from the Special Accounts (SA), the Bank will have the right to
withhold further deposits in the SA. The Bank may exercise this right until the borrower has: (a)
refunded the amounts involved, or (b) (if the Bank agrees) submitted evidence of other eligible
expenditures that the Bank can use to offset the ineligible amounts.
2.    Special account: To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower will establish,
maintain and operate, under conditions acceptable to the IDA, a Special Account in US dollars in a
commercial bank acceptable to IDA or the Central Bank. The selection process and criteria for selection
of the bank will follow IDA standard selection procedures. The authorized allocation is US$250,000
which may be withdrawn from the Credit Account by submitting the relevant Application of Withdrawal.
Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three months, and must include reconciled
bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
3.    Direct payment: This method may be used to facilitate payments to international consultants.
Direct deposits to foreign bank accounts can be requested by submitting the appropriate withdrawal
application supported by a contract copy and original invoices.



Page 36
Annex 4, Table D: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
I . Civil Works                                     1.47               90% of expenditures
2. Consulting Services & Training                   0.86                100%
3. Goods                                            2.08                100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 90% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
4. Incremental Operating Cost                       0.11
5. Unallocated                                      0.48
Total LflA Cre4it,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M



Page 37
Tajikistan: Education Reform Project (LIL)
Annex 5: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project-                   : :.      ~      --                       Actu"[ -SfX
(At ~fn1 ~C  stg
193,900              25] ,500
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             09/27/1998           09/27/1998
Appraisal/Negotiations mission departure        03/26/1999           03/26/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/15/1999
Prepared by: Ministry of Education
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant (US$245,000) and Swiss Trust Fund ($100,000)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Michael Mills                             Program Team Leader
Marit Granheim                            Task Team Leader
Halil Dundar                              Education Economist
Dominic Haazen                            Financial Management Specialist
Maniza Naqvi                              Operations Officer
Seyoum Solomon                            Procurement Specialist
Taies Nezam                               Social Assessment Specialist
Maria Gracheva                            Operations Officer
Carmen Laurente                            Team Assistant
Ahmed Mohammed Jehani                     Sr. Counsel
Hannah Koilpillai                         Disbursement Officer
James Socknat                             Sector Leader
Christopher Lovelace                      Sector Director
Bruno Laporte                             Sector Knowledge Manager
Eluned Roberts Schweitzer                 Education Specialist
Madalena Dos Santos                       Education Specialist



Page 38
Tajikistan: Education Reform Project (LIL)
Annex 6: Documents in the Project File*
]. Project Concept Document*
2. Reports:*
*    School Mapping/Rehabilitation, Management Strengthening and Monitoring
Evaluation (M. Enache)
o    Teacher Retraining (I. Smith)
o    Textbook Component Strategy (C. Denning and A. Bullock)
*    Social Assessment (T. Nezam)
*    Economic Analyses of Pilot Schools and Rayons (A. Drost)
*    Draft Sector Note (H. Dundar)
*Including electronic files.



Page 39
Annex 7
Status of Bank Group Operations in Tajikistan
Operations Portfolio
Differenice Between
expected               Last PSR
Original Amounlt in US$ Millions       aid actual         Supervision Rat,,igb/
Fiscal                                                                                                         disbursementsa!
Project ID    Year             Borrower                          Purpose
IBRD    IDA   Caincel  Undisb.   Orig       Fnn Rev'd  Dev Obj        hmp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 2
Active Projects
TJ-PE-4323 i    1996   REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN    INST. BLDG.,/TA                           0.00    5.00    0.00       .64       -.39        0.00      S            S
TJ-PE-44202    1997   REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN    PILOT POVERTY ALLEVIATION                  0.00   12.00    0.00       4.98      -.20        0.00      S            S
TJ-PE-53386    1998   REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN    P-C RECONSTRUCTION                         0.00   10.00    0.00       6.41      3.32        0.00      S            S
TJ-PE-59055     1999   REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN    EMERGENCY FLOOD ASST                      0.00    5.00    0.00       5.06      .64         0.00      S            S
TJ-PE-47438    1999   REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN    SAC I                                      0.00   50.00    0.00      30.20    30.01         0.00      S           U
Total                                                                                      0.00   82.00    0.00      47.20    33.38         0.00
Active Projects        Closed Prolects             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD aind IDA):                           34.29                   59.13                  93.42
of whicih has been repaid:                               0.00                   0.00                    0.00
Total inow held by IBRD and IDA:                           82,00                   60.00                  142.00
Amounilt sold.                                              0.00                    0.00                   0.00
Of whicb repaid:                                          0,00                    0.00                    0.00
Total Undisbursed:                                         47.29                    0.00                  47.29
a.  Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b.  Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio perfonranice (ARPP), a letter based system was introduiced (HS   highly Satisfactory, S  satisfactory,
U = insatisfactory, HU = higlhly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements il Project alnd
Portfolio Perfonnamice Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), Augiast 23, 1994.
Note
Disbursement data is utpdated at the enid of the first week of the month.



Page 40
Annex 7a
Tajikistan
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of January 31, 1999
(In US$ Millions)
Committed                     Disbursed
IFC                           IFC
FY Approval           Company         Loan  Equity  Quasi Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi Partic
1997/98             Zeravshan Gold         2.50    1.20    7.27    0.00    2.50    1.20    7.27    0.00
1998                Nelson Gold            0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00  0.00    0.00
T otal Portfolio:                2.50    4.20    7.27    0.00    2.50    3.20  7.27    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   q_quit  Quasi Partic
1997                NELSON GOLD            0.00    2.05    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00    2.05    0.00    0.00



Page 41
Tajikistan: Education Reform Project (LIL)
Annex 8: Financial Management
General:
A review of Financial Management System was undertaken to: (a) review the presence of the necessary
elements for sound project financial management system such as internal controls, project accounting, project staffing
and audit arrangements; (b) assess the project's capacity and readiness for the implementation of LACI; and (c)
prepare a time-bound action plan for strengthening the financial management system to achieve Project Management
Reports (PMR) that will assist the implementing agency to move towards LACI.
Project Management and Coordination and Staffing:
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be directly responsible for financial management during project
life. The MOE (through its Project Working Group) has to date been responsible for managing the PHRD grant of
US$245,000, and will transfer this responsibility to the PIU staff.
The PIU is recruiting a full time Chief Financial Officer who will be provided with proper training before the
project becomes effective, by a foreign consultant under PHRD grant and with TORs satisfactory to the Bank. The
CFO will be responsible for financial management and control under the PHRD and the project itself and will report
to the PIU Director. Technical assistance will be made available to the PIU in project and financial management
during the first year of project implementation. This will include training workshops for the PIU and project
coordination staff at the local level. In addition, the MOE and project team will attempt to mobilize additional grant
funding from other sources to provide either ongoing or short-term accounting and financial management expertise
within the PIU. To ensure the appropriate segregation of duties, at least one other financial officer should be hired
(possibly part time at this PIU, depending on workload), and one other staff member already being proposed (e.g.,
Director's secretary) should be trained in payroll and other clerical financial functions.
The overall budget for the PIU will be $0.43 million, of which the equipment budget will be around $20,000,
in addition to the $20,000 that has been allocated under the PHRD grant. These allocations cover the entire period of
project implementation. The PIU is to receive three computers and other basic office equipment (printer, fax, copier)
out of PHRD funds, in addition to the equipment under the credit.
Accounting:
A project financial and accounting program will be developed prior to effectiveness, with support from a
contracted financial management expert, who is currently providing assistance to various PlUs in Tajikistan. Given
the project size and the needs for project oversight and preparation of project documentation such as PMRs, this will
be kept as simple as possible. The system to be designed should have, inter alia, an accounting and internal control
system with the capacity to record and retrieve in a timely manner, all financial transactions under the project. The
system will: (a) reliably record and report all assets, liabilities, and financial transactions of the project; and (b)
provide reliable financial information for managing and monitoring project activities. The accounting system will be
classified by component; it will reflect the sources of funds, and will be broken down into different types of
expenditures for the project. Furthermore, it will provide information on the receipt and use of funds and will be able
to produce financial reports comparing budget with actual expenditures at any given time. The system will be capable
of providing financial data to measure performance when linked to the outputs of the project.



Page 42
Financial Reporting:
By effectiveness, an acceptable financial management system will have been in place. Disbursements will
start using traditional disbursements methods-SOEs reimbursements, direct payments, etc. After the PIU has gained
experience with the financial management system and reporting under project management reports (PMRs), and
provided that an improved financial management system is reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank, the project
will move to PMR-based disbursements. The PIU will maintain accounts for the Project and will be responsible for
preparing Project Management Reports (PMR - see Annex 9 of the Project Financial Management Manual) on a
quarterly basis, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a PMR for such
period, which:
I . (i) sets forth actual sources and application of funds for the project, both cumulatively and for the period
covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the project for the six-month
period following the period covered by said report and (ii) shows separately expenditures financed out of
the proceeds of the credit during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the credit during the six-month period following the period covered by
said report;
2. (i) describes physical progress in project implementation, both cumulatively and for the period covered
by said report, and (ii) explains variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation
targets; and
3. sets forth the status of procurement under the project and expenditures under contracts financed out of the
proceeds of the credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
Project Operations Manual (POM):
Given the rapid preparation timetable of a LIL, the Project Operations Manual (POM) will be prepared before
effectiveness, and will include: (a) the financial management system proposed under the project, with special
emphasis on accounting and auditing policies, standards and internal controls; (b) the role of the financial
management systems in project management and implementation; (c) the accounting arrangements required for
project management, the format for and content of project financial reporting; and (d) the auditing arrangements that
will be used during project implementation.
Auditing:
The PIU will be responsible for ensuring that the financial statement, Special Account, and SOEs are audited
by an independent auditor, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with standards on auditing that are acceptable to the
Bank. The annual audit will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reportinzg and Auditing of
Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). The audit report shall be in a format in accordance with the
International Standards on Auditing promulgated by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). The audit
report will include a separate opinion for SOEs against which disbursements have been made or are due to be made
from the Credit and SOEs which will be included in the audit report accompanying the financial statements.
The audited financial statements of the special accounts, and SOEs of the preceding fiscal year, including a
separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements made against certified statement of expenditures, will be sent to the
Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
The audit of the financial statement will include: (a) an assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal
control systems to monitor expenditures and other financial transactions and ensure safe custody of project-financed
assets; (b) a determination as to whether the project implementing entities have maintained adequate documentation



Page 43
on all relevant transactions; and (c) verification that expenditures submitted to the Bank are eligible for financing, and
identification of any ineligible expenditures.
The estimated overall budget for auditing under the project will be around $45,000, which appears to be
reasonable, given the size of the project, and the lack of existing in-country auditing capacity. Auditing services will
be procured on a least-cost basis, and packaged as a recurring audit, with no requirement for a new engagement letter,
except in the special circumstances.
Bank FMS staffing and supervision:
The project was reviewed in detail by Bank FMS during appraisal in April 1999. It is recommended by the
FMS that the country environment and implementing agency capacity suggested that the project not use on PMR-
based disbursement, at least initially. An international financial specialist, who has been working with several other
PIU's in Tajikistan, has been engaged for this project to assist with project preparation and develop an FM action
plan. The FM procedures and assessment of the financial staff will be included in the PIM. During project life, an
FMS will take part in supervision missions to monitor the FM of the PIU and ensure compliance with ongoing FM
covenants.
Special Account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and operate, under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account, denominated in US Dollars. The minimum amount of the
application should be 20 percent of the authorized allocation. The replenishment applications should be submitted at
least every three months, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting
documents.
The Government will be responsible for the appropriate accounting of the funds provided by the IDA under
the Credit, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring that audits of the financial statements or reports
are submitted to the Bank. A computerized accounting system is envisaged to be established at the PIU. Once
trained, the Accountant(s) at the PIU will maintain and prepare quarterly financial reports as part of Project
Management Reports.
Accounting software and assessment of Y2K risks:
The accounting and financial consultant retained by under the PHRD grant is currently implementing the
Tally accounting software system in the other PIUs in which he is working. It is proposed that this system be
implemented in the Education PIU as well to provide a nucleus of staff in Dushanbe who are conversant with the
software and capable of supporting each other. During the appraisal mission the project needs, staff capacity, and
availability of accounting software were discussed and this approach was agreed to with the Borrower. It is not
anticipated that either hardware or software to be purchased under the PHIRD or the project will have Y2K
compatibility problems.
Conclusion:
Since the project does not currently satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management requirements, an
Action Plan is presented below which requires the PIU to design and implement satisfactory financial management
system to address above issues. Once the time-bound Action Plan is carried out successfully, it is believed that the
project will, by then, have developed an accounting system that will be able to produce the required level of financial
management reports in a timely fashion.



Page 44
Action Plan:
In order to ensure that the project will have sound financial management system in place, the following time-
bound Action Plan is presented:
I.   Purchase Accounting Software                                  May 1999
To be consistent with other PIUs, Tally software is being
recommended
2.  Install, Design Accounting System, and Trial-Run Software      June 15, 1999
This will include:
* Designing accounting flows and controls;
* Designing the chart of accounts;
* Designing the payroll system;
* Specifying the flow of information/documents;
* Documenting the flow of money (in and out);
* Documenting the internal control system; and
* Frequency of transaction and controls.
to speed implementation, accounting policies and procedures from
the Post-Conflict Emergency Reconstruction Project will be adapted
for use by the Education PIU
Design requiredfinancial reports, e.g.
Local accounting requirements;
*     Local tax requirements;
*     World Bank requirements;
Other donor requirements;
*     Trust fund requirements;
Reporting currencies; and
Accounting policies.
3.   Hire/Train Additional Financial Staff                         June 15, 1999
4.   Select Auditors                                               Prior to Effectiveness
5.   Open Special Account                                          Prior to Effectiveness
6.   Visit by Financial Specialist to verify financial arrangements in  Prior to Effectiveness
place
7.   Complete Financial Management Report                          3 months after Effectiveness



Page 45
Tajikistan at a glance
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Central     Low-
Tailikstan    Asia  Income        Oevelopment dlamond
1997
Populaton. mid-year (millionsJ                        6.0      476      2,048                 Ute expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS,                   330      22320      350
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                      2.0     1.106      722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                        1.6       0.2      2.1
Labor force (%)                                      2.2        0.5       2.3      p                              Gross
Most recent estImate (latest year available, 1991-97                              capita               /      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line.
Urban population (% of total population)              32        67        28
Ute expectancy at birth (years)                       69        69        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              30        25        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                       ..       61                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                           ..       71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+J.)                           ..       47
Gross primary. enrollment (% of school-age pooulation,  89      92        91             -rajikisfan
Male                                                91                 100                  Low-income group
Female                                               88                 81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996      1997
Economic ratIos-
GOP 1US$ billions)                            *.1.0                       1.1
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                                   7.2       7.1
Exports of goods and services/GDP                              77.0      74.0                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     ..                ..       1 .6
Gross national savings/GOP                    ..       ..
Current account balance/GDP                             .       7.1      -5.5     D    s
Interest payments/GOP                                   .       0.0       2.9     Domestic                    Investment
Total debtGOP                                  ..      ..      83.9      95.6     Savings                     Ie n
Total debt service/exports                    ..       ..      34.0      13.9
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..      ..      80.2
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..      65.0
Indebtedness
1976-86  197-97    1996      1997   199802
(average annual growth,
GOP                                   ..      ..    -4.4        1.7       4.4                Tajikistan
GNP per capita                       ..       ..    -5.8       -0.3       2.2             -    Low-income group
Exports of goods and services         ..      ..    -0.2        2.9       5.4    ____
STRUCTURE ot the ECONOMY
1976    1986       1996     1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%/.)
(% of GOP)
Agriculture                                    .    28.        32.0      34.0    20
Industry                                             37.2      25.0     24.0      o
Manufacturing                                    ..       ..             ..             9    I    54 D
Services                                  -          34-7      43.0      42.0    -2o
Private consumption                           ..    64.5          -               40
General govemment consumption                  .     21.7
Imports o1 goods and services                 ..       ..      81.0     80.0   I
(average annual growth,                  197846  1987-97      196       1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                                  t-17.8        . 
Industry                                                      -23.8              so
Manufacturing
Services                                                      -35.0               o                    /
Private consumption                           ..       ..                   ..                93                    97
General government consumption
Gross domestic investment                     .4.9                       -5.9   '4
Imports of goods and services                  ..      ..    -12.9        1.3             -    Exports       imports
Gross national product
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
' The diamonds show tour kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-aroup average. If data are missinq. the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 46
Tajikistan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1996       1997       Inflation (%/6)
Domestic prices
1.000
(% chanp)                                                                                 o
Consumer prices                                                       41.8      88.0       750
Implicit G D P deflator                             .        ..         ..    101.3        s      .:.
Government finance                                                                         250t
(% of GOP, includes curent qrants) o
Current revenue                                                       12.1      13.7                92    93    94   95    96   97
Current budqet balance                             ..                 -4.8      -2.0                --GOP deflator  "0'CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                             -                 -5.8      -3.3
TRADE
(USSmdlions)                                    1976      1986       1996      1997       Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                 ..       ..       770        746     1.ooo
Aqriculture                                        .        .        304       319
Other                                              .                 466       427       750
Manufactures                                      .
Total imports fcif                                 ..        ..       808        759       soo
Food                                              .         .        122       107       25
Fuel and energy                                                     281        356
Capital goods                                     .
01   92   99  594   95   9e   97
Export price index (1995=10O)                                 .      108.6     105.2
Import price index (1995=100)                       ..        .      114.6     110.5               GExports       UtmPorts
Terms of trade (1995=100)                          ..         .       94.8      95.2
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986       1996      1997       Current account balance to GDP ratio
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                       ..800                       804        0
Imports of goods and servces                        .                 838       868           9Si 9
Resource baiance                                                       36       S63       -s 
Net income                                               .             -68       -36      -10
Net current transfers                              ..        ..        30         40     -Is
Current account balance                                                -74       -60
Financing tems (net)                               ..84                          43      -20
Changes in net reserves                             .                  -10        17     *25
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)             ..        1. 14                30
Conversion rate (DEC. local/US$)                    .        -      298.4      581.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996       1997
(USS millions)                                                                            Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed               ..        ..       868      1,039
IBRD                                                                  0         0
IDA                                                                  30        50
Total debt service                                                    180         72           P.300                        1as
IBRO                                                                  0         0
IDA                                                                   0         a
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                                      30        19
Official creditors                                                   36        13
Private creditors                                ..                   0         0
Foreign direct investment                                            16        11
Portfolio equity                                                      0         0                                E:576
World Bank program
Commitments                                       .         .        55        2       A - tERO                        E - Bitatera
Disbursements                                                        30         2      B- IDA     D - Other multilateral   F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                                                  0         0      c 0 IMF                         G - Siort-term
Net flows                                         ..        ..       30        Z
Interest payments                                ..                   0         0
Net transfers                                                        30        22
Development Economics                                                                                                         10/1/98



