Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3214 TJ
Development Credit Agreement
(Education Reform Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 3, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3214 TJ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 3, 1999, between the REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Page  2
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth 
below, and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are 
accordingly renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
“Participating Country” means any country that the 
Association determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 
10 of Resolution No. 183 of the Board of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; and “Participating 
Countries” means, collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a Participating Country or 
for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or 
for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth 
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“MOE” means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
(b)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit, established within MOE 
in accordance with Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement; and
(c)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a bank acceptable to the Bank 
or Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such later 
date as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  3
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates 
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall 
be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind 
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency 
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge 
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual 
installments payable on each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 2009, 
and ending February 1, 2039.  Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on February 1, 2019, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, 
and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the 
Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) 
above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of 
the Credit shall have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest 
at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element 
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the 
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of 
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Page  4
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project through PIU with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
environmental, and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the services, goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to 
the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association 
and furnish to the Association on or about December 31, 2000, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30, 2001, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of 
this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association views on the matter.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain the PIU with powers, functions 
and staffing satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the PIU to establish and at all 
times maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, 
and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
Page  5
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the PIU to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section 
including those for the Special Account 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing 
principles standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later 
than six months after the end of each 
such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof and concerning 
said auditors, as the 
Association shall from time 
to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial management 
system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the 
Borrower, not later than December 30, 2000, or such later date as the 
Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and applications of funds 
for the Project for the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report;
(ii) 
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, 
Page  6
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and (B) explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said 
report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such 
period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions 
to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
that the PIU shall have been established in a manner acceptable to 
the Association, which shall have staff with adequate experience and 
qualification, including at least the Project director, procurement specialist 
and financial management specialist; 
(b) 
that a financial management system has been installed and is 
operational in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
(c) 
that Project implementation plan and bidding documents for the 
rehabilitation of the first four pilot schools have been prepared and furnished 
to the Association; 
(d) 
that an international consultant to design the student assessment 
and evaluation plan of the Borrower has been selected;
(e)
that Project implementation agreements, acceptable to the 
Association, between the Borrower, the City of Dushanbe and Leninsky Rayon 
respectively have been signed; 
(f)
that an initial deposit of the equivalent of $50,000 has been made 
into a Project account opened for the purposes of Project implementation; and
(g)
that acceptable auditors for the Project have been selected and 
appointed.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement 
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
3 Akademikov Radzabouykh
Dushanbe, 734025
Page  7
Republic of Tajikistan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
By /s/ Rashid Alimov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ishrat Husain
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
  1,090,000
90%
(2)
Goods
  1,540,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 90% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(3)
Technical Assistance,
    640,000
100%
training and audit
Page  8
(4)
Incremental operating
     80,000
70%
costs
(5)
Unallocated
    350,000
TOTAL
  3,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency 
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental 
expenses incurred by the PIU on account of Project implementation, management 
and monitoring, including office supplies, vehicle operations and travel.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works, 
consulting firms and training under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent, individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent and all expenditures under Category (4) of this Schedule under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project is to introduce reform in compulsory 
education and improve access to high quality education in Tajikistan through 
piloting of new methods of teaching, management, school rehabilitation and 
textbook development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
1.
Strengthening the education sector of the Borrower through the provision 
of training to: (a) teacher trainers; and (b) teachers in pilot schools. 
2.
Management strengthening through the establishment of three management 
support centers: one in the Ministry of Education of the Borrower and one in 
each of the two pilot rayons.
Part B:
1.
Carrying out of works and provision of goods for refurbishment and 
upgrading of: (a) about 20 pilot schools; (b) the education offices of Dushanbe 
and Leninsky rayons; and (c) training institutes and centers. 
2.
Provision of information technology and office equipment to the Ministry 
of Education of the Borrower.
3.
Improving of education materials through publishing and distribution of 
textbooks and establishment of a revolving textbook fund.
Page  9
Part C:
The provision of consultant services, goods, Project auditing services and 
incremental operating costs to strengthen the PIU management capability.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth 
in paragraph 2 of this Part A, (the Guidelines) and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
2.
(a)
Paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines is modified to read as follows:
“1.6. The proceeds of the Credit may only be withdrawn on account 
of expenditures for goods and works provided by nationals of, and 
produced in or supplied from, Participating Countries.  
Consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating 
Countries and bidders offering goods and works from such countries 
shall not be eligible to bid for such contracts, and the bidding 
documents shall so specify.”
(b)
The reference in paragraph 1.8 of the Guidelines to “member 
country” shall be deemed to be a reference to “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix I thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,610,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $480,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $110,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Page  10
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to 
bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all 
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
(a) 
With respect to all contracts procured under Part B of this 
Section, and the first two contracts and all subsequent contracts estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, procured under Part C.1 of this 
Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b) 
With respect to the first two contracts and all subsequent 
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more under Part C.2 
and estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 under Part C.3 of this Section, 
the following procedures shall apply:
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping 
procedures the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Association a copy of the specifications and 
the draft contract; and
(iii)  the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 (g) and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A: 
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and 
the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services of the auditing firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for teacher training, building management capacity at the 
central, regional and school level and improving education assets shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  11
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposal, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the consultant Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and 
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 
1,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation 
and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Page  12
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to 
said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the 
Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an 
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not 
Page  13
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence 
as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if 
the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
