                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 27331

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                              (IDA-32140 TF-21814 TF-25594)

                                         ON A

                          LEARNING AND INNOVATION CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.7 MILLION (US$5.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN

                                        FOR AN

                              EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT




                                    December 5, 2003




Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective September 2003)

                               Currency Unit = Somoni
                                Somoni 3.15 = US$ 1.00
                                    US$ 1.00 = Somoni 3.15

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1   - December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     Asian Development Bank
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CPPR    Country Portfolio Performance Review
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
EMIS    Education Management Information System
EMP     Education Modernization Project
ERP     Education Reform Project
ESW     Economic and Sector Work
FRR     Financial Rate of Return
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Agency
IGA     Income Generating Activity
IMF     International Monetary Fund
LIL     Learning and Innovation Loan
MIS     Management Information System
MOE     Ministry of Education
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PHRD    Population and Human Resource Development (grant)
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PIUE    Project Implementation Unit for Education
PPAP    Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project
PTA     Parents-Teachers Association
QER     Quality Enhancement Review
SAC     Structural Adjustment Credit
SOE     Statement of Expenses
TA      Technical Assistance
UNICEF  United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund

                             Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                          Country Manager:       Dennis de Tray
                            Sector Manager:      Maureen Mclaughlin
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Michael Mills

                                REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
                             EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              25
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            37
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              38
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            43
Annex 10. Borrower's Contribution                                                46

Project ID: P057953                                                  Project Name: EDUCATION
Team Leader: Michael Mills                                           TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: December 5, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: EDUCATION                                                L/C/TF Number: IDA-32140; TF-21814;
                                                                                                     TF-25594
   Country/Department: TAJIKISTAN                                                         Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (38%); Secondary education (38%); Central
                            government administration (14%); Tertiary education (10%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Administrative and civil service reform (P);
                            Rural services and infrastructure (P); Vulnerability assessment and
                            monitoring (P); Participation and civic engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/06/1998                                     Effective: 09/28/1999                09/28/1999
     Appraisal: 03/12/1999                                         MTR: 09/10/2001                  09/10/2001
      Approval: 05/13/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 09/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF TAJIKISTAN/MINISTRIES OF FINANCE AND
                                           EDUCATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Dennis de Tray                                 Ishrat Husain
Sector Manager:                 Maureen Mclaughlin                             James Socknat
Team Leader at ICR:             Michael Mills                                  Marit Granheim
ICR Primary Author:             Shobhana Sosale


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Background and Context. Tajikistan is a low-income country where poverty is widespread and deep. At the time
of project preparation Tajikistan was emerging from a civil war, economic collapse and localized natural disasters.
Wages and salaries, once the primary component of family income, had ceased for most families to be the major
source of income. By the end of 1998 real wages had fallen to less than 5 percent of their 1991 level, and the
average monthly salary of teachers was TR2,400 (US$7)--well below the estimated cost of an individual adult
2400 kCal minimum diet.        Poverty had intensified in many parts of the country, especially in remote and
war-affected areas, with women (especially single women and households headed by females), children and
orphans becoming particularly vulnerable. Roughly 85 percent of the population of 6 million were considered to be
poor.

Despite the severity of the situation, there was hope that poverty could be reduced over time. The Government's
approach towards poverty reduction consisted of several elements: (i) continued macroeconomic stabilization with
inflation and the budget deficit kept down, and acceleration of the privatization process; (ii) peace and security,
including repatriation and reintegration of refugees and internally displaced people, demobilization and
reintegration of ex-combatants, and physical reconstruction; (iii) land reform, farm restructuring and additional job
creation measures, especially to assist the poor and landless who did not benefit directly from the reform measures;
and (iv) protection of basic social service budgets and structural reforms in education and health. Since the
Government and the United Tajik Opposition had signed the peace agreement in 1997, the Government had made
good progress in stabilizing the macro environment. The IMF was supporting the macroeconomic strategy under a
Post Conflict Emergency Assistance Mechanism. In 1998 there was positive economic growth of about 5 percent.

The Bank's strategy in the social and human development sectors comprised four elements: protection of the
minimum necessary budget for priority services (in coordination with the IMF), investments in key activities,
support for policy change, and institution building efforts.           Key structural issues included financing,
decentralization and personnel management reform with cost sharing by parents/students being one dimension.

Investment in social infrastructure during the Soviet period allowed Tajikistan to reach the level of educational
development in middle income countries, though it was mainly the result of large budget subsidy from Moscow.
Prior to independence Tajikistan had achieved a high adult literacy rate (99 percent in 1990), almost universal
eleven years of compulsory education, and a relatively well educated labor force (for example, 77 percent having
ten or more years of schooling). Educational institutions at all levels were fairly accessible to the majority of the
public in terms of both location and numbers. Unfortunately in the early 1990s the situation changed rapidly.
Students were increasingly not attending school, and dropout rates were on the increase at all levels of education.

Tajikistan has maintained the overall structure and programs of the previous Soviet system, with some minor
revisions only in school curricula. The country has kindergartens, general secondary schools (which include
primary grades 1-4 and secondary grades 5-9), upper secondary schools (grades 10-11), specialized vocational and
technical schools, and higher education institutions. Education is compulsory for all children up to the ninth
grade, having been reduced from 11 years in 1996. The main issues that was confronted by the Project preparation
team were: (i) the deterioration in the quality of education; (ii) the need for a change of "mentality" among
teachers, students and education administration officials; (iii) inequitable access to schooling; (iv) inadequate
management capacity; (v) inefficiencies in funding; (vi) unsatisfactory school facilities; and (vii) a serious shortage
of textbooks. The Project preparation team focused on addressing these issues.




                                                        - 2 -

Original Objective: The Project was the first Bank-financed support to the Government of Tajikistan in the
education sector. This Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) was designed at the time that the country was just
emerging from internal conflict, in addition to being part of the former Soviet Union and no longer getting
educational subsidies from Russia.       The system suffered from four issues: (i) Teachers were using outdated
teaching methods; (ii) School infrastructure was in extremely bad shape having not been rehabilitated for several
years; (iii) Textbooks were not available in time for the school year; and (iv) Management capacity was low and
passive due to years of central direction by Russia.

The main goal of the Project was to improve access to high quality education as well as to raise learning
achievements of students. The purpose was to do a pilot, to give the Tajik education authorities means to stop the
decline in their education system. The main Project development objectives were: (i) to develop and pilot enhanced
teaching and management methodologies; (ii) to rehabilitate 20 pilot schools in 2 regions, Leninski Rayon and
Dushanbe City, in a way which could later be replicated geographically; (iii) to reform the system of textbook
development, publishing and distribution to improve the availability of good quality textbooks; (iv) build
management capacity in the Ministry of Education (MOE) and the two pilot rayon school administrations; and (v)
to learn from this pilot experience in order to apply the lessons learned to broader reforms in the education sector.
The Project was intended to introduce innovation and reform in primary education. The approach was for MOE to
use a participatory approach to piloting new methods of teaching, management, school rehabilitation and textbook
development. Implementation was to involve central, regional and school administration, as well as parents,
students and the community at large.         The original project development objective continued to be relevant
throughout project implementation.

The Project goal was consistent with the Government's overall strategy for human resource development. The
objectives of the Project were relatively ambitious, particularly the reform of textbook development, publishing and
distribution. The objectives were clearly stated with measurable key performance indicators associated with each
objective. The components were linked to the development objectives. They were relevant and responsive to key
issues regarding school rehabilitation and teacher retraining. The number of activities under each component,
however, were numerous. The implementing agencies (Project Implementation Unit, Education (PIUE) at central
level and rayon education administrators) were linked to the Ministry of Education.              20 pilot schools were
identified in 2 Rayons, Leninski and Dushanbe City. Security and accessibility were the two guiding factors in
choosing the two Rayons for the pilot. Leninski Rayon was chosen for these reasons and because of the interest of
the local authorities in participating in the Project. The 20 schools were selected partly on a competitive basis, in
order to identify the schools and local communities most interested in and willing to carry out reforms; and partly
on the basis of need, in order to try to contribute (albeit modestly) to poverty alleviation efforts.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original goal and objectives of the Project remained unchanged throughout implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
Three components were set up to achieve the Project objectives: Component (A) Capacity Building; Component (B)
Improving Education Assets and Materials; and Component (C) Project Management.

Component A. Capacity Building (US$ 0.52 million) included the following two original sub-components:

     Sub-component #1. Teacher Training

     Activity #1. Teacher training to introduce active learning in the classrooms, and promote greater
     understanding and openness to decentralization, community involvement and participation. More active
     teaching methods by selecting and training about 20 teachers with suitable skills as teacher trainers using
     overseas trainers during three 5-day training courses. There were four elements to the training program: (1)
     personal development in independent learning; (2) teaching and learning methods; (3) planning school
     improvement; and (4) team and training development. Other aspects included: (a) training linked to action
     planning and work-based learning, mentoring and monitoring; and (b) trainers to train 900 teachers from the
     20 project pilot schools using two different approaches: (i) school-based training strategy in 10 schools (6


                                                            - 3 -

    training days each year in-school training, with training days linked to classroom and school action plans);
    and (ii) center-based training course (6-day training each year, with the benefits of inter-school dialogue, but
    with less focus on the school).

    Sub-component #2. Management Training

    Activity #2. Management Training to improve management capacity and to develop policy-making capacity
    by (a) establishing three management support units, one in the MOE, and one in each of the pilot rayons,
    equipped with basic information technology and office equipment; (b) local and international specialists
    providing training in general management subjects such as: (i) management responsibilities; (ii) the effects of
    various management styles applied in specific organizational cultures; (iii) setting and implementing
    objectives; (iv) decision-making; (v) management information systems; (vi) budgeting and finance; (vii)
    recruiting and deploying human resources, development and implementation of incentive systems; (viii) roles
    and responsibilities at central and local levels; school laws and regulations; curriculum; control and
    assessment of teachers and student performance and feedback; organizing the school year; time schedules and
    allocation of classrooms; cooperation with parents and the community; fund raising; management of student
    flows; developing, implementing, and using an MIS in education; and procurement, delivery and revolving
    materials and equipment; (c) designing training courses for about 5 officials from the MOE, 10 managers from
    the two rayon administrations, 40 principals and vice-principals from pilot schools, 2-4 teacher trainers, and 2
    officials from the PIU; and (d) organizing four study tours for selected staff.

Component B. Improving Education Assets/Materials (US$4.06 million) included the following two
sub-components:

    Sub-component #1. Refurbishment and equipment to improve access to education by rehabilitating and
    providing furniture to: (a) schools up to a functional level with priority for roof repairs; insulation from the
    weather; repair and replacement of windows; installation of heating systems and lighting; provision of
    adequate water and sewerage systems; repair of toilets; cupboard space and shelving in classrooms to store
    textbooks; and painting of walls, floors, etc. Criteria for work to be done: economy, simplicity of materials,
    use of local materials wherever possible, and sturdiness. Average cost of the work per school in the region was
    estimated to be around $75,000. Furniture for each school was estimated at $20,000 per school; (b) the MOE
    (information technology for MOE); (c) the pilot rayons; (d) teacher retraining institutes and two pilot training
    centers.

    Sub-component #2. Textbooks to make available in a timely manner learning materials through the
    introduction of innovative textbook rental system in the 20 pilot schools. Activities under this sub-component
    included: sets of textbooks to be rented out to students for one school year with students paying about a third of
    the total cost of the books. Money collected was to be deposited in a special fund for the purpose of purchase
    of further copies of textbooks. The objective was that children from very poor families and orphans would be
    able to borrow sets of textbooks free of charge, with cost of the "free rentals" met by the local authority.
    Storage of textbooks during vacations was to be addressed through school refurbishment program. Monitoring
    the operation of the textbook rental scheme was to start in school year 2001-2002; and final evaluation in
    school year 2002-2003. The Project was to finance the publication or reprinting of 18 mainly primary school
    textbooks and teacher guides (not covered by ongoing UNICEF project which provided for printing paper for
    9-10 titles). Purchase of finished textbooks through international competitive bidding. Contractors awarded
    the contract were responsible for: (a) paying authors their fees for publishing their textbooks as laid down in
    the Authors' Law of Tajikistan; (b) editing, designing and illustrating new textbooks and teacher guides; (c)
    drawing up production specifications for all books covered by the Project. The Project was to finance MOE to
    distribute textbooks to the other 78 rayons in the country.




                                                        - 4 -

Project Management (US$0.92 million) comprised:

     Project coordination by financing (a) local consultant services, equipment and project audits; (b) salaries of
     the PIU director and any other local consultants working on the implementation of the Project; (c) other PIU
     operating costs; and (d) monitoring and evaluation of the Project.

3.4 Revised Components:
There were no amendments to the original project objectives, components or overall project structure. It is
necessary, however, to note that two sub-activities were introduced during project implementation in the context of
the prevailing Development Credit Agreement (DCA)/legal document.               A more detailed discussion of the
sub-activities and the ratings for the achievement of the objectives of these sub-activities are provided in section 4.1
below.

     Sub-component #3. Student assessment within Component (A)--Capacity Building: This sub-component was
     introduced to use the results of a Grade 4 test as a rough measure for achievement--pilot schools compared
     with an equal number of non-pilot schools. The test was meant to be a vehicle for the MOE to use and
     monitor declining/increasing basic literacy levels in the future.

     Sub-component #3. Community-based Activities within Component (B)--Improving Education Assets and
     Materials: This activity was introduced to elicit greater community participation. Evidence showed that the
     community-based activities were not uniformly introduced in all the Project pilot schools. The decision to
     discontinue the sub-activity midway through project implementation resulted in some schools benefiting while
     others did not.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Within the country circumstances and the available data for purposes of analyzing education issues the quality at
entry of the Project was satisfactory. The Project was prepared according to the Bank's quality Assurance Group
standards. It was subject to a traditional peer review process. It had the political support of the Government of
Tajikistan. It was clearly aligned with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) available at that time (Report No.
18075-TJ dated June 25, 1998).       In the absence of a formal ESW, the Project was designed on the basis of: (i)
sector analysis which was relatively thorough considering the fast track nature of preparation. It was designed as a
fast track post-conflict investment which required careful handling of the tension between depth versus breath of
analysis; (ii) the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) wherein the Government had agreed that the education
sector's share of the total government budget would not fall below an agreed minimum proportion; (iii) some key
investments that aimed directly at the needs of the poor--in particular, the Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project
(PPAP); (iv) an emphasis on policy change relating to some of the key structural issues which faced the
sector--such as financing, decentralization and personnel management reform; and (v) an emphasis on building
institutional capacity. Relevant lessons from IDA Learning and Innovation Loans (LILs) in other countries were
factored into the Project design. Social and implementation capacity were assessed using a PHRD grant, although
the latter could have resulted in a more realistic assessment of national capacity to implement the Project. No
baseline data for project performance indicators were available at the start of project implementation. All data for
project performance were collected during the course of project implementation.

An economic and financial analysis of the budgets of the pilot schools, cost effectiveness analysis, and an
assessment and recommendations of measures to improve the allocation of education spending to the poor served
as background material for project design. Recurrent costs and sustainability of the Project were issues that the
Project preparation team tried to address to the best of their ability considering that the available Government
budget for education was only about $20 million for the country as a whole. The Project was modest from the
Bank's perspective ($5.5 million). The investment was, however, a fourth of the total education budget for the
country. This, therefore, proved to be a substantial investment on the whole. The scale of intervention per school
was an important issue. For example, it was estimated that $75,000 per pilot school would be needed for
rehabilitation--to scale up the Project, approximately $300 million would have been needed--a sum clearly too
large for an initial investment from the Bank, and clearly not affordable. It would have been impractical to cover




                                                         - 5 -

the entire country. Justifiably the Project team, therefore, took a middle ground position, emphasizing that the LIL
nature of the Project would enable learning to take place about what rehabilitation could be done and at what cost.
In the final analysis, taking into consideration the absorptive capacity of the country, the Project team designed the
Project at the right level.

The investments made were innovative, but in some cases (e.g., EMIS, income generating activities) too ambitious
considering the capacity to implement the Project and the situation in the education sector at that time. Overall,
the design of the Project did provide a good basis for learning and innovation. The Project preparation phase
helped to engage policymakers in fruitful discussions, it helped to lay a good foundation for future projects by
addressing critical institutional, capacity and financing issues in education. Given the timeframe for project
implementation and resource constraints, efforts were made to train counterparts.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Based on field visits to schools in the pilot Dushanbe and Leninski rayons, documentation review, discussions with
national and provincial education authorities, the beneficiary survey carried out by an independent and qualified
NGO (see Annex 8) and the stakeholder workshop (see Annex 9), the overall implementation of the Project was
satisfactory in so far as the Project was a LIL and there was much to be learned by both the Borrower and the Bank
in the process, and given the difficult country circumstances.         Both the Government and the Bank worked
constructively to overcome difficulties. Technical assistance was often provided to address specific issues. The
Government was committed to the reform process, a high level of stakeholder awareness was built, and
considerable institutional capacity was developed. Government commitment to project design and implementation
was high, and its direct financial and capacity contributions were adequate despite fiscal constraints. Reasons for
the fiscal constraints were numerous, but important among them were that: (i) the value of the Tajik Somonie was
very low and unstable, resulting in the loss of exchange rate; (ii) the country was emerging from a civil war; and
(iii) there was limited time for and capacity in the central and local governments to acquire a full grasp of
international donor rules and regulations. The overall objective of the ERP was to improve access to high quality
education as well as to raise the learning achievements of students. The overall objective was achieved to a
satisfactory level.

The ERP was the World Bank's first education credit to Tajikistan. It served as an important conduit to build
institutional capacity for carrying out internationally recognized procurement and financial management
procedures leading to improved accountability, and decentralized decision-making; ERP's contribution towards
promoting decision-making at the community, parents, and school levels laid the foundation for subsequent
Bank-financed education sector projects in Tajikistan. The Project thrust from the outset of project design was
concurrently on traditional inputs--provision of textbooks, equipment and infrastructure rehabilitation--as well as
on more innovative aspects such as retraining teachers in new interactive teaching methods, and overall
strengthening institutional capacity.    The introduction of the textbook rental scheme was an innovation for
Tajikistan since before the break-up of the Soviet Union all textbooks had been centrally distributed from Moscow
to Tajikistan. The blend of traditional with innovative inputs was a good strategy, allowing for learning and
innovation. It became obvious at the early stages of project implementation that rehabilitation and repairs of
school buildings had to take place to ensure that children had a safe and secure environment to study in before
education quality improvement issues could be meaningfully addressed. The rehabilitation of infrastructure was
the primary concern for the Government since schools had been run down over a 10-15 year period, and badly
needed repairs.     Overall, project sub-components that produced relatively satisfactory results included the
introduction of PTAs in the 20 project pilot schools, the printing of emergency books, the purchase of equipment
for schools, in-service teacher training, and the introduction of the textbook rental scheme.

Overall project implementation was satisfactory, although in terms of coverage, the Project had a number of
technically difficult components (e.g., student assessments--too sophisticated and highly technically difficult to
design and implement). With respect to implementation, the Project would have benefited from a more realistic
assessment of the capacity of local consultants to implement the Project. Based on the outcomes of the assessment,
project components could have been designed to suit implementation capacity. Notwithstanding these issues, the



                                                         - 6 -

Project was implemented successfully, and significant learning took place through the course of project design and
implementation. The ERP was an ambitious project and has had many spin off effects in terms of strategies being
utilized by other donor projects.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component (A): Capacity Building. (Appraisal Estimate--US$0.52 million; Actual--US$0.22 million) (
Satisfactory). The objective was to introduce active learning in the classrooms, and promote greater understanding
and openness to decentralization, community involvement and participation. The ICR mission received positive
feedback about the capacity building and institutional strengthening support gained through the Project. An
implementation assessment of the different sub-components revealed the complex conditions under which the
Project outputs were achieved.

Sub-component #1. Teacher Training [for teacher trainers (training of trainers) and in-service training for
teachers in pilot schools]. (Satisfactory). The overall objective was achieved i.e., to introduce active learning in
classrooms, and promote greater understanding and openness to decentralization, community involvement and
participation.   The four elements of the training program were introduced: (1) personal development in
independent learning; (2) teaching and learning methods--training linked to action planning and work-based
learning, mentoring and monitoring; (3) planning school improvement; and (4) team and training development.
All training was linked to action plans.       A training program for school principals was also designed and
implemented.

The goal was to provide in-depth training for 900 teachers in all, starting with training of trainers. Twenty teacher
trainers were selected on a competitive basis, two officials of Dushanbe city and Leninski district Teacher Training
Centers, and two officials of teacher retraining institute at a four-week seminar. The objective was to develop a
critical mass of teachers who would train their peers. This critical mass of trained teachers were introduced to new
challenges in curriculum reform with the expectation that they would participate in future curriculum development
exercises. Teacher training institutions were also involved and participated in the training. By project end about
1,031 teachers (548 of them from the Leninski Rayon) had been trained in interactive teaching methods. Twenty
of the trained personnel went on educational tours to Kyrgyzstan, Lithuania, Moldova, and the Karachi education
center of the Aga-Khan Foundation to learn about international practice in active teaching methods.               The
Government certified the training and this helped teachers to credibly implement new interactive methods of
teaching in the classroom.      Beneficiaries indicated that the introduction of new teaching methods increased
teachers' professional satisfaction and pupil's participation.

There was a shortage of manuals on active teaching methods. The manual "interactive learning" was translated
from English to Tajik and was given to all teacher trainers of the 20 project schools, to the training center and to
PIU staff. Chapters on teacher training were published in the PIU bulletin, and disseminated through mass media
(television programs). Teachers indicated that they had enjoyed the professional interaction with their colleagues
and peers from other institutions during the training sessions, and that they came away with new tools and ideas
for teaching.   One of the positive outcomes of teacher retraining was that teachers had access to training
opportunities which had hitherto been limited or nearly absent. In some schools teachers did, however, indicate
that the newly introduced interactive methods for teaching and learning were difficult to implement due to the
large student-teacher ratios.

Main weaknesses of the teacher training component were that: (i) Some of the teachers trained were very senior
teachers on the verge of retirement, and some others were not selected from the pilot schools for the Project. (ii)
There was an outflow of trained staff. Some of the selected teachers left their teaching posts after returning from
training. The migration of teachers to other parts of the country resulted in the loss of some trained personnel. The
trained teachers did not impart their learning to teachers who stayed on. This was an unforeseen outcome. (iii)
There was a lack of follow-up for the teacher training provided and a lack of supporting material (literature or
handouts) at training. (iv) There were few incentives for teachers--low salaries, the time required to prepare
lessons, the difficulties with respect to applying interactive learning methods in classrooms which were big--too
many groups in one class for interactive learning; teachers did not have the time to follow up on creative exercises




                                                         - 7 -

assigned to students, some teachers who were members of PTAs were expected to take on a full teaching load as
well as to serve their communities--this created a tension between classroom teaching and PTA responsibilities.
Teacher trainers were not being allowed time off to coach their peers, an issue that has still not been resolved. (v)
There was also a problem with the use of the Dushanbe Teacher Training Center--the schools never utilized them
fully. Discussion about moving the teacher training center to a school did not materialize.

While the teacher training component for the Project was relatively successful, the Government indicated that in
retrospect a more general approach encompassing all teachers in the country would have been more helpful, rather
than confining the training to a pilot approach. Site-based teacher training was being funded by several donors
mostly with grant funding in Tajikistan. The MOE was unclear about the varying approaches to teacher training
by individual donors. The trade union indicated that a national vision of certified teacher training would have been
a more helpful approach. The above issues, however, were both direct and indirect outcomes of a sub-activity
which was otherwise successful and satisfactorily implemented.

Parents Meeting in Pilot Schools.       (Satisfactory).  The Project introduced the concept of Parents-Teachers
Associations (PTAs) as a mechanism to get community involvement in education. PTAs have a legal status (their
own charter in both Russian and Tajik) as Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) with certain rights and
responsibilities. A tripartite agreement is signed between the PIUE, the schools and the local government. This
legal status defines the role of each actor, to avoid duplication of work and to delineate lines of authority. PTAs
are allowed to have independent assets, are responsible for the resolution of conflicts, and help to support orphans
and children from low-income families. PTAs received regular training on various issues such as management and
leadership in education, how to develop micro-projects, PTA and democratic management of the training process
in schools, etc. PTAs served as a mechanism for community-based development. The introduction of PTAs has
raised awareness among communities about their roles and responsibilities towards supporting community schools.
PTAs proved to be effective since many issues could not be resolved by local education authorities. While teachers
were hired and fired by the MOE, School Directors did not have control over this process. PTAs became a source
of support to School Directors. PTA members participated in four seminars jointly sponsored by the PIU and the
Counterpart Consortium: (1) NGOs and the community; (2) NGO management; (3) Fundraising; and (4)
Accounting and book keeping.

PTAs embodied the principles of democratic management style, becoming involved in the teaching and learning
process, participating in school rehabilitation, having a voice in the use of funds collected through the textbook
rental scheme, influencing the retraining of school staff, and overall in the organization and utilization of funds.
The reputation and public image of PTAs were raised, with the mentality of communities changing gradually in
terms of how to organize the teaching and learning process. PTAs helped to develop school development plans
and/or ratified them in general meetings. The school development plans reflected the basic activities of the Project
and the role of the PTAs in pilot schools.        Information included school rehabilitation, equipment, teacher
retraining, student assessment, rental system for textbooks and the textbooks revolving fund, business activities,
etc. Parents, responsible for financing of schools and for exerting influence on the governance and maintenance of
schools in each of the pilot schools were invited to attend meetings on teacher training to promote participatory
decision-making. PTAs have helped to improve school attendance, and introduce improvements in the teaching
and learning process. MOE should continue to create an enabling environment for PTAs to thrive.

At a time when the education budget for schools was insufficient, the involvement of the communities through
PTAs helped to raise funds for legitimate activities. The Project design required PTAs to contribute 10 percent
towards rehabilitation costs, while the Project funds contributed 90 percent. The PTA structure served as a good
system of checks and balances. The role of PTAs was very important for the school rehabilitation component
where 10 percent of the activities were dependent on their in-kind (labor) and cash contributions. PTAs helped to
supervise the work of contractors by visiting the sites on a regular basis.          In turn contractors provided a
counter-balance for the PTAs by ensuring that the latter contributed their share of the remaining 10 percent to
carry out school rehabilitation.

The Project put in place community-based activities. The objective was to provide small grants of $2,000 to each
school to assist in improving the quality of education. It was fundamentally a good idea since the objective was to


                                                        - 8 -

promote community involvement in quality related activities, as well as improve the collaboration between schools
and communities. It was proposed that each school would be given a small sum of money calculated on the basis
of the number of students in each of the 20 project schools. The school and communities could utilize the money
to buy books, paper, supplement teachers' salaries, or any other item that would help to improve the quality of
education. But parents and teachers were living in grim poverty conditions and the few schools that received the
funds thought that in the "new market economy" they could utilize the funds for income generating activities,
thereby making the initial investment last over a number of years.

The intended goals of the community-based activities were only partially achieved.         Schools with relatively
successful parent/teacher activities were conducting business in basic activities such as sewing, trading in
stationery, animal husbandry, sports programs for the community, part-time farming, and running canteens.
Where successful, the parent/teacher activities helped to earn up to US$103, not a large amount for a $2,000
investment, but it did signal the earning potential. The funds were only minimally utilized to upgrade the quality
of education--in some cases leading to the purchase of furniture for staff. Although the parent/teacher activities
helped to promote cohesion among school communities, the use of small grants was uniformly poor. There were
concerns that teachers and school principals were becoming preoccupied with income generation at the cost of
their pedagogical and school management duties and responsibilities.        As the rehabilitation of schools was
staggered, the parent/teacher activities did not all start at the same time with this activity as they were largely
dormant while children were re-housed in temporary school buildings. Not all 20 project pilot schools received the
seed money.

Some of the issues that future projects will need to focus on include the following: (i) the mandatory 10 percent
contribution from PTAs many a times resulted in construction delays. The Beneficiary Assessment results indicate
that PTA contribution should be lower (around 7 percent) to make it affordable. The 10 percent contribution
requirement in many cases resulted in PTAs being unable to contribute in a timely manner; (ii) beneficiaries/PTAs
mentioned that they lacked literature and training regarding how to use the grants provided by the Project.
However, towards the end of project implementation a PTA manual was prepared in Russian and Tajik. This
manual should be finalized and provided to all PTAs; (iii) PTAs are responsible for knowing the state, economic,
social and tax policy so that they pay taxes according to the Tax Code. Some PTA Chairmen had difficulties
making bank transfers in time for reports on taxes to be prepared because of ignorance of tax legislation. These
aspects are reflected in the PTA Statute. Notwithstanding these issues, overall, the outcome of this Project
sub-activity was highly satisfactory. The PTA concept should be taken into account in follow-on projects.

Sub-component #2. Management Training [for MOE officials, rayon level administrators, and school
administrators]. (Satisfactory). It was important for the Tajik officials who were hitherto isolated to receive
management training.     They participated in study tours to exchange views with their counterparts in other
countries about the challenges of education reform. The study tours were organized for MOE and rayon level
administrators to help them acquire knowledge and information about education reforms being carried out in the
region and in the UK. In-country specialists went on field trips to: (i) Armenia to study how textbooks are
produced and distributed using the textbook rental scheme; (ii) Sweden, England, Scotland and the Netherlands to
learn about the education systems in these countries; and (iii) Stockholm to attend a seminar on "State Education
Reform Policy." There were indications that trained administrators were attempting to put in place reforms.

Management seminars were conducted in two stages for school directors and deputy directors. International
advisers designed and delivered the first stage on "School Directors as Managers." This seminar helped school
directors to understand and differentiate leadership skills. The second management seminar was held for school
directors and deputy directors from the pilot schools. The seminar helped to impart knowledge and information on
the basics of managerial work in the context of a market economy. A tangible result of the management seminars
was that school directors together with their staff developed School Development Plans (SDPs) which set out a
vision, objectives and goals for respective schools, factoring in the requirements to achieve them. Management
training is expected to have a long-term effect on the quality of the outcomes, but difficult to measure in the
short-term.

Sub-component #3. Student Assessment. (Moderately satisfactory). The intent was to use a pilot test as a rough


                                                        - 9 -

measure for achievement--pilot schools compared with an equal number of non-pilot schools, and it was meant to
be a vehicle for the MOE to use and monitor declining/increasing basic literacy levels in the future. Through the
ERP a student assessment has been put in place. The introduction of a student assessment for grade 4 students in
20 schools to assess children's ability to apply and interpret their knowledge and skills in reading, mathematics,
and civics (rights and responsibilities) (see table below showing baseline and project-end results) was a major
technical achievement for the country. The test was revised after the first round of pilot. The design of the pilot
test was quite successful in that the participating teachers understood the new challenges for reforming education.
The introduction of a highly technical and difficult activity in the LIL had its advantages as well as some
drawbacks.

    Table 1. Results of Student Assessment in Project Pilot Schools and Non-pilot schools (control group)

 Project Pilot   School No.  1999-2000     2000-2001      2001-2002      Non-pilot       School  1999-2000     2000-2001     2001-2002
    Schools                academic year academic year  academic year schools (control     No.  academic year academic year academic year
                                (%)          (%)             (%)          group)                    (%)           (%)           (%)
      1               1         14.4         11.37          25.22            1              6       8.95          9.08          17.3
      2               2         10.9         18.14           9.88            2             19       7.94          8.38          6.29
      4              11         6.74          7.56          12.59            4             53       8.04          9.29         14.48
      5              18        11.68         12.17          14.73            5             80      18.05         17.01         15.56
      6              24         9.72          3.37           1.84            6             200     13.27         14.72         22.26
      7              39         8.63         11.43          18.16            7             207      6.41          9.57         15.03
      8              43         9.32          9.81           9.15
      9              44        13.85         14.61          28.54
      10             45        12.98         13.67          12.66
      11             62         9.44         10.76          11.61
      12             67         8.43         10.55          14.99
      13             111       17.93         23.74          46.46
      14             189       17.25         16.17          17.49
      15             197        8.89          9.38          18.53
      Leninski district        11.22         12.19          17.23           Leninski district      11.25         11.74         16.14


      16             33         9.43         15.66          14.82            8             25      26.28         15.78         18.84
      17             82        21.68         21.97          28.36            9             37       6.24         24.14         16.67
      18             88        25.32         19.24          26.15           10             91      14.61         31.96         25.08
      19             93        16.86         15.14          19.69
      20             94        17.02          15.5          19.93
         Dushanbe              18.26         17.58          21.79               Dushanbe           11.25         11.74         20.20
        Both Raions            13.07         13.55          19.51              Both Raions         11.25         11.74         18.17
Source: Ministry of Education and Education Reform Project Implementation Unit, November 2002

Tests were run and administered well. A complicated test was piloted, an item bank was produced, and tests were
run and analyzed. However, the quality of the test results was not sufficient to monitor the outcomes of project
inputs. Moreover, improvements in learning achievement usually cannot be measured in a short time. At project
mid-term review the test results were surprisingly poor, suggesting that the level of the test was above what was
being actually taught in schools, reflecting the inadequacy of the curriculum, and the inability of teachers to cover
the material. Adjustments to the test were, therefore, made during the third round to make it more appropriate.
The problem was that this meant that the original test and the revised test were not all comparable. Based on
available evidence and the quality of the testing instruments developed the impact of the student assessment on
improvements in the quality of education inputs in the short- to medium-term is likely to be negligible.

Student assessment is a technically complicated subject. National assessments require significant expertise, time,
and resources to put in place a system that will have an impact on student achievement levels by informing
policymakers to introduce appropriate improvements to raise the quality of education. In the case of the ERP there
was little capacity to adequately analyze and disseminate results. The language barrier played an important factor
particularly in the context of statistical interpretation and technical sophistication required for the data analysis.
The MOE realized that it did not have the analytical capacity in-country to carry out appropriate analysis of the test
results. The sub-component was insufficiently funded with minimal technical assistance to design and carry out
assessments. In addition, the original goals of having the assessment used to judge student achievement was not
realistic within the Project timeframe. In spite of the aforementioned difficulties, as one of the innovative efforts
within the LIL, the student assessment sub-component did set the stage for further work. The assessment system



                                                                  - 10 -

put in place in the 20 pilot schools has potential; it provides the basis for refinements, and scaling up in the future.


Component (B).                   Improving Educational Assets/Materials. (Appraisal Estimate--US$4.06 million;
Actual--US$3.99 million) (Satisfactory). The objective of this component was to improve access to education by
rehabilitating and providing furniture, and make available in a timely manner learning materials through the
introduction of innovative textbook rental system in the 20 pilot schools. Both aspects were achieved satisfactorily.


Sub-component #1. Refurbishment and equipment. (Moderately satisfactory). Schools had been in a severe
state of severe disrepair following the breakup of the Soviet Union and rehabilitation was a priority. They had not
been rehabilitated in over 10-15 years. 18 of the 20 pilot schools in the Project regions were rehabilitated (roofs,
flooring, exterior infrastructure, windows) and provided with furniture. Details are provided in the tables below.
Heating units were provided to help the children to stay warm during the severe winters. The rehabilitation of
windows in the schools helped to ensure proper insulation. The activities of the sub-component were, therefore,
achieved. The learning curve for the PIUE and the Bank was steep and during the course of project implementation
much capacity was built on both sides. The PIUE and the Government were responsive about improving the
quality of rehabilitation and the process resulted in significant capacity building. Despite the issues that emerged
during implementation, refurbishment of schools was carried out. This was the positive outcome.

                                                  Table 2. School Rehabilitation Details

    Number                          Object                 Works beginning     Works completion            Object location
    Leninskiy district
      1.          Secondary school No.1                      October 1999        August 2000       Somoniyon s., Borbad st,2
      2.         Secondary school No.2                       August 2001         February 2002    Somoniyon s., Lenin st.
      3.         Secondary school No.8                        May 2000           October 2001     Somoniyon s., Stahanov dale
      4.         Secondary school No.11                      October 2000          July 2001      Laur j., Galahona s.
      5.         Secondary school No.18                       May 2000            April 2002      Komsomol dale
      6.         Secondary school No.24                       July 2001          August 2002      Sultanabad j., Burma s.
      7.          Secondary school No.39                       May 2000         February 2001      Koktash j., Komarova s.
      8.          Secondary school No.43                      August 2001        August 2002       40 years of Tajikistan
                                                                                                   j.,Mahmadshoi Bolo s.
      9.         Secondary school No.44                       May 2000           February 2001    Chimteppa s.
     10.         Secondary school No.45                      August 2001          April 2002      Sarikishtii Poyon dale
     11.         Secondary school No.62                      January 2000       November 2000     Jiubodom s.,Chorteppa s.
     12.         Secondary school No.67                       May 2000           August 2001      Ispechak j., Choryakoron s.
     13.         Secondary school No.189                      May 2000            April 2001      Somoniyon s., Lenin st16
     14.         Secondary school No.197                     February 2000      November 2000     Selhoztehnika s.
     15.         Boarding school                              May 2000           February 2001    Zaibobod j., Korgar dale
     16.          Educational center and DED (District        January 2000     December 2000       Somoniyon s., Somoniyon st.
                  Educational Department)


 Dushanbe
       1.         Secondary school 33                       January 2000       February 2001     Kalinina s.
      2.          Secondary school 82                         July 2002         March 2003       Gissarskaya st. 33
      3.         Secondary school 88                        January 2000      November 2000      Gissarskaya s. 73
      4.         Secondary school 93                         May 2000         November 2001      Ispechak 2, 25
      5.         Secondary school 94                        January 2002        January 2003     Navoi st. 21
      6.         Educational center                          February 2000       August 2000      Tursun-zade st. 8
      7.          Institute of teacher improvement           October 2000         June 2001       Chehova st.15
      8.          Dushanbe Education Department             November 2000         April 2001      Pushkin st.46
Source: Project Implementation Unit, Education (PIUE), December 2002.




                                                                   - 11 -

                                                Table 3. Furniture for Pilot Schools

                                    Pilot school                           Desks and     Teacher tables
                                                                         chairs for 1-4   and chairs/set   Blackboards/
                                                                           grades/set                          pcs
   1      Secondary school No.1 of Leninskiy district                         325               56             33
   2      Secondary school No.33 Dushanbe                                     705               58             40
   3      Secondary school No.62 of Leninskiy district                        575               51             38
   4      Secondary school No.88 Dushanbe                                     750               54             35
   5      Secondary school No.197 of Leninskiy district                       316               51             33
   6      Secondary school No.8 of Leninskiy district                         300               25             22
   7      Secondary school No.18 of Leninskiy district                        360               25             30
   8      Secondary school No.39 of Leninskiy district                        326               25             34
   9      Secondary school No.44 of Leninskiy district                        326               25             31
  10      Secondary school No.67 of Leninskiy district                        410               30             35
  11      Secondary school No.189 of Leninskiy district                       450               40             34
  12      Boarding school of Leninskiy district                               300               30             20
  13      Secondary school No.93 Dushanbe                                     900               50             65
  14      Secondary school No.82 Dushanbe                                     800                              45
  15      Secondary school No.94 Dushanbe                                     1090                             60
  16      Secondary school No.2 of Leninskiy district                         300                              28
  17      Secondary school No.11 of Leninskiy district                        122               20             15
  18      Secondary school No.24 of Leninskiy district                        300                              17
  19      Secondary school No.43 of Leninskiy district                        520                              40
  20      Secondary school No.45 of Leninskiy district                        295                              20
                                      TOTAL                                   9470             540            675
Source: Project Implementation Unit, Education (PIUE), December 2002.


School rehabilitation was one of the most challenging aspects of the Project. Schools had high expectations about
improvements to the physical infrastructure since extensive civil works were needed in most schools. The PIU
indicated that the expectations were somewhat higher than what could have been delivered given the time and
resources of the Project. The work was slow and there were delays in getting the activities underway. There were
some problems in getting quality contracts. Few contractors had the required experience. They were sometimes
unable to get the materials required and when they did get the materials these were of rather low quality. This
resulted in the low quality of works and led to non-transparent and large contract addenda. The last four contracts
were stopped until further adequate design drawings were completed. This contributed to further delays in the
completion of rehabilitating schools. An added complication was that even after the rehabilitation work had been
completed, in some of the areas, the local Hukumats' operational services did not provide schools with electricity,
water, heating and restore the sewerage infrastructure.

The Tajiks respected the Bank's procurement rules.                   All bidders for the rehabilitation work were private
companies. In an environment of an emerging/fledgling private sector, the bidders had limited resources and
equipment to carry out rehabilitation work. Many companies did not have the requisite capital to qualify for the
bidding process. The advance payments (10 percent of contract value) made were insufficient for contractors to do
their work properly. In addition, due to low salary levels, some PTAs could not afford to contribute the required
10 percent towards rehabilitation of schools. Upon realizing that the quality of rehabilitation was inadequate in
some cases, and that the bidding process was not necessarily transparent, the Bank team held a workshop in
Russian for contractors on the bidding process. The last few contracts were held up, an additional engineer was
hired, and a design firm was contracted to ensure that the designs were sensible. In one case a re-bidding was done
in order to ensure quality and probity.




                                                                  - 12 -

The expertise in the PIUE, while adequate, was insufficient to fully address the rehabilitation issues. The Project
and the PIUE might have benefited from the presence of an architect with the capacity to do solid analysis and
more precise design estimates, thereby helping to optimize the use of scarce resources.              This problem was
surmounted to some extent with technical assistance to prepare the bidding documents. Another issue was that the
10 percent PTA contribution to the rehabilitation of schools was written into the contractors' bids. Contractors
used this as an excuse to stall work in some cases, and blamed the PTAs for not providing labor or in-kind
contributions which also delayed the progress on school rehabilitation.

Beneficiaries stated that the quality of the construction materials and equipment were low, and in some cases
resulted in the need to repeat renovation just one year after rehabilitation in most schools. It was felt that PTA
involvement in the rehabilitation of schools was insufficient, and that where they were involved, they were often
asked to work on schools in another community. This reduced the ownership for the rehabilitation work. The
recommended solution for future projects to avoid similar problems is to encourage greater PTA involvement and
ownership of rehabilitation process and to give smaller amounts of money to more schools. Overall, it was widely
felt that for the large investments supposedly used for reconstruction, the visible results were much less
far-reaching than would have been expected. NGO representatives commented that the results of the $75,000
investment per pilot school for reconstruction were low when compared with rehabilitation work done by NGOs for
smaller amounts but which resulted in much better quality.

Notwithstanding the above issues, and considering the state of disrepair of the infrastructure prior to Project
implementation, the activities under this sub-component were achieved.

Teacher Re-training Centers. (Satisfactory). The Project funded two teacher resource centers in Leninski rayon
and Dushanbe city. These functioned well. The centers were handed over to the district education officers for
local authorities to take responsibility for them. However, there were problems for teacher trainers to reach schools
to provide necessary on-site training in spite of the purchase of cars using Project funds. At the end of project
implementation one center had been taken over by the local education authority and another was being supported
by a second donor, thus ensuring continuation of the work towards project goals. The Teacher Training Centers
continue to exist and are functioning well.

Sub-component #2. Textbooks. (Satisfactory). The activities of this sub-component were achieved and the
outcome was satisfactory. The success of the textbook rental scheme was due to the decentralized nature of
decision-making--schools deciding what books to buy and being responsible for controlling the funds. Tajikistan
had a strong centralized textbook development, printing and distribution during the Soviet era. There was only
one large central printing house under the Ministry of Culture with several minor printing establishments, also
public enterprises. Textbooks in Russian and other minority languages were sent from Moscow. Following the
civil war the system broke down. The industry fell apart and publishing houses suffered severe working capital
deficits due to embezzlement of funds. Despite the war, however, personnel and equipment were still available in
the three major printing houses. Through the Project preparation process, an analysis of the supply level was
carried out with MOE. It was decided that 18 titles from existing manuscripts would be printed and distributed to
78 regions of the country, and a rental scheme would be instituted. Textbooks for all grades were printed on an
emergency basis from readily available manuscripts. There was a plan to produce a consistent group of books for
the primary education level. During implementation the government chose a random selection of books for a wide
range of grades. The choice to some extent affected the use of the textbook rental scheme as parents would not rent
a sequence of books for a particular grade. Also some of the books printed were not those most in use.

Textbooks Rental Scheme. The goal was to print, distribute, and monitor the use of 18 titles for primary education.
$1.65 million was earmarked for this component, and $50,000 was specifically earmarked for textbook
distribution.   The 18 titles selected (details in table below) were printed and distributed to all schools.
Beneficiaries said that the introduction, for the first time in Tajikistan, of a textbook-rental system which increased
access to textbooks in a situation of chronic textbook shortages was a positive outcome of the Project.




                                                          - 13 -

                                         Table 4. Textbook Titles, Publishers and Circulation

 Number                        Textbook title                        Publisher           Publisher's origin    Number of books
                                                                                                               in Circulation
    1          Tajik people history, 8grade                          Corporation           Kazakhstan             100 000
                                                                     Atamura
    2          Tajik people history, 5grade                          Corporation           Kazakhstan             120 000
                                                                     Atamura
    3          English language, 10grade                             McMillan                England              100 000
    4          Tajik language, 5grade                           Corporation Fedorov         Russia              120 000
    5          Tajik language, 2grade                           Corporation Fedorov         Russia              100 000
    6          Religion history, 7grade                         SPC of Deaf community      ajikistan             100 000
    7          Odobnoma, 5-6grades                              Corporation Fedorov         Russia              100 000
    8          Geography, 8grade                                Corporation Fedorov         Russia              100 000
    9          Botany, 5-6grades                                Corporation Fedorov         Russia              140 000
   10          Art and labor, 2grade                              Ofsetcompany              Russia              120,000
   11          Art and labor, 3grade                              Ofsetcompany              Russia              120 000
   12          Art and labor, 4grade                              Ofsetcompany              Russia              120 000
   13          Tajik language, 6grade                             Ofsetcompany              Russia              100 000
   14          World literature, 10-11grades                      Ofsetcompany              Russia              100 000
   15          Market economy, 9grade                             Ofsetcompany              Russia              100 000
   16          Tajik people history, 9grade                       Ofsetcompany              Russia              100 000
   17          Nature and natural resources, 10grade              Ofsetcompany              Russia              100 000
   18          Mathematics, 5 grade                               Ofsetcompany              Russia              100 000
                                   Total                                                                        1,940,000
Source: Project Implementation Unit, Education (PIUE), December 2002.



In keeping with World Bank guidelines, and per the approach outlined in the PAD, the PIUE followed
International competitive bidding (ICB) procurement procedures to select contractors. MOE's preference was to
go with national competitive bidding to keep the IDA monies flowing into building capacity in the country.
However, the printing industry's situation following the civil war was precarious. Budgets were very small.
Although labor was inexpensive, paper had to be imported, and other materials were expensive. For the ICB
process, some Tajik printing firms put in bids but did not qualify since they did not meet the quality and price
specifications of the bid. Foreign contractors from England, Khazakstan, and Russia and one Tajik contractor won
the bids.    The bidding resulted in the local industry and the MOE gaining greatly from the experience, and the
ICB process resulted in bringing in inexpensive, good quality textbooks for students.

With respect to cost recovery, the rental cost for the textbooks was set at one-third of the market price of textbooks.
Cost sharing for the textbook rental scheme proved to be expensive for some parents, many of whom were willing
but unable to pay the amount. The textbook rental scheme would have benefited from a good management system,
monitoring and evaluation, and regular audits to provide the scheme with appropriate structure and executive
bodies. Furthermore, a financial analysis of the rental scheme was needed to ensure that the scheme is sustainable
and equitable in effects on students.

The textbook rental scheme was originally implemented in the twenty pilot schools and was not intended for it to
be a nationwide strategy. The Government on its own initiative, about halfway through project implementation,
scaled up the textbook rental scheme nationwide. The Government's initiative was commendable. MOE did
not put in place appropriate procedures prior to distributing textbooks using the rental scheme on a countrywide
basis, resulting in poor monitoring of textbooks in non-project schools. Therefore, although from the perspective
of the Project the textbook rental scheme was a success, it was less so on a national basis. Scaling up the rental
scheme nationwide was somewhat premature for it did not fully benefit from the lessons learned from the Project's
pilot rental scheme.

It is necessary to note that the textbooks published were subsequently found to have errors in printing and the
pedagogical quality of the material was considered sometimes to be too difficult to follow. A core set of books for
one level, with manuscripts more carefully chosen would have resulted in better materials. The textual errors were
largely due to the fact that the manuscripts were not adequately proof read before sending to the printers.
Improvements to the structure could have been introduced by establishing conditions to tap authors' creativity,
expand the number of participants, lay out the basis for a textbook policy, develop criteria for selecting



                                                                  - 14 -

manuscripts, and establishing appropriate performance indicators. An aspect that beneficiaries found particularly
difficult with the textbooks component was that the books were difficult to understand as the language used was
very literary and some books also contained factual, spelling, grammatical and syntactical errors. These are issues
for both IDA and the Government to pursue in the future.

Component (C).       Project Management          (Appraisal Estimate--US$0.92 million; Actual--US$0.86 million)
(Satisfactory). The objective of this component was to set up a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), staff it, train
the PIU staff and focus on project monitoring and evaluation.            The overall output of this component was
satisfactory. The Project was initiated in a climate of reform with a strong project manager. The PIUE was set up
as a stand alone agency situation in the MOE building, but one of the consequences of the strong management style
was that activities were not initially fully integrated into the Ministry's program. Project management suffered a
severe setback at about mid-term, when the Project Director was fired. The Deputy Director was hired as a
temporary and then later permanent replacement.        The second Director had a sharp learning curve to manage
ongoing activities. The PIUE staff were responsive to the various educational issues, financial reporting and
auditing requirements, and overall project monitoring. Although there were no issues with financial management
during the life of the Project, there was a sharp learning curve in the case of procurement procedures, which had
not previously been used in Tajikistan (some instances have been mentioned concerning construction and there
were initially misunderstandings on the procurement of furniture and books).              However, with training and
supervision these issues improved. The question of how the PIUE could have been organized, inside the MOE or
as a stand alone unit was discussed further in light of the new project (Education Modernization Project). At the
time of project design, however, there was little option, given the lack of familiarity with Bank procedures,
language barriers and staff salary differentials, but to have a standard PIU. As the Project developed, closer links
were forged with Ministry personnel and departmental activities, making for sustainability and ownership over the
long term. A positive outcome of the ERP was the strengthened capacity of the MOE/PIUE in the areas of
procurement (international competitive bidding for textbooks) and financial management.

Understanding the Education Law and associated Regulations. There was insufficient knowledge of the Education
Law and associated regulations at local levels (schools, communities). Having received central assistance for every
aspect of education over the last 70 years, at the start of the ERP, there was considerable resistance from
communities to understand and contribute towards reforming the education system. The PIUE invested time, effort
and financial resources to run media campaigns through television, radio, and addressing the public's concerns
and queries about the role of communities and parents in educating the future citizens of the country. In addition,
a website was developed and a newsletter on project activities and overall education improvements was distributed
to schools and teachers.

Education Management Information System (EMIS). (Unsatisfactory). The original objective was that the EMIS
would be initiated/piloted in the Project schools, and later on extended to encompass all schools in the country.
However, project design provided insufficient funding and TA for the EMIS sub-component. Only one person with
a technical background was involved in the design and implementation phases, and the system was never fully
operationalized either at the PIUE level or in the district education offices. Staff in district offices were reluctant to
participate without compensation.

Monitoring and evaluation. (Marginally satisfactory). The Project was monitored against performance indicators
per Annex 1 of the Project Appraisal Document. However, concerns were expressed that the Project performance
indicators were designed/articulated in such a way as to render them difficult to monitor. The PIUE maintained
records of project sub-component records which assisted with project monitoring, and the Project was closely
monitored through successive project supervision missions which helped with project implementation. The MIS
Specialist in the PIUE kept good track of data for project schools regardless of the fact that the Project database
was not being used by staff. The problem was insufficient training for MOE and PIUE staff on the use of
computers and databases, and how to use the data in policymaking. This issue needs to be addressed in future
projects. Teacher training institutes were to take on the evaluation of the teachers trained, and as to whether
trained teachers were using new teaching methods in the classroom. This, however, did not happen.




                                                         - 15 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An analysis of pre-project conditions and post-project implementation shows that although the initial costs of
putting in place new mechanisms were high, the long-term benefits to the education sector are promising.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return (FRR) was calculated for the ERP.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the Project has been modest both in the Project environment and through
spin off effects, in the wider area of education management and change. Improved management practices have
been put in place in the PIUE and in the districts and schools. However, due to a steep learning curve, the various
institutional players have had to grasp in a short period of time, several difficult technical issues. Reinforcement of
the technical aspects (procurement, financial management, educational decentralization) will take time and effort.
In addition, the basic minimum training has been imparted through the Project to teachers, management, and
PIUE. Teachers require more in-service and pre-service training; training approaches adopted by various donor
agencies need to be coordinated to assist the Government to develop a unified teacher training strategy and for
teacher certification.   School management, and district and central level officials require considerably more
training and professional development opportunities to grasp the various approaches to education reform. The
Project helped to pilot training, but more needs to be done to replicate the training.                 While improved
communications and dialogue between government entities, schools, and the PIUE has been fostered,
communication issues continue to persist. Here again more technical assistance and training are required to
provide institutional players with appropriate tools and techniques.

As a first step towards eliciting community participation beneficiary participation has been promoted through
parents, teachers' associations (PTAs), and student representatives. However, the various actors have not received
sufficient training about democratic management principles and leadership in education, on how to develop
micro-projects, use data for decision-making, and need more information and training to ameliorate their
knowledge about tax legislation. Changes in management behavior following from awareness of cost-saving
strategies and, autonomy in decision-making have been introduced paving the way for decentralization and fiscal
responsibility in schools. But these are the first steps towards acquiring the basic principles. More technical
assistance and training would be needed to reinforce the principles and for school, district and central level
management to embrace and implement the principles. The PIUE has promoted knowledge sharing and
dissemination through a monthly newsletter and radio and TV broadcasts. Beneficiaries have, however, indicated
that they have not received sufficient information. Considering the above issues, much more needs to be done.
Follow-on projects should address institutional development issues as a priority. Human capacity development
takes time, effort and resources. The LIL helped to introduce the reforms. However, more investment is needed in
order to truly institutionalize reforms. For these reasons, the Project's institutional development impact is rated as
modest.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Overall, the Government demonstrated commitment to the Project's objectives and took corrective measures during
the implementation period. The Project became effective on time. The end of the Soviet era resulted in economic
decline and inadequate financing for basic services. Free textbooks from Moscow were no longer available, the
printing industry had little or no financial base to compete with international publishing houses, schools were
badly in need of rehabilitation, and the country was in dire straits from a fiscal perspective resulting in little
counterpart funding being available for the Project. It is within this difficult macroeconomic situation that the ERP
was designed, prepared and implemented. In addition, the aftermath of the civil war compounded the factors
outlined above, with not only limited resources but also qualified manpower. Project implementation was fraught
with difficulties for various reasons. Since the ERP was the first education project, Government staff had a steep
learning curve. They were often forced to act as implementers rather than as change agents with responsibility for
outcomes. These aspects will take a while to change.




                                                        - 16 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The end of 70 years of centralized planning and implementation had left its mark--highly centralized
decision-making, fiscal controls with respect to PIUE salaries, multiple "audits" by numerous government entities
resulting in the wastage of resources and lack of streamlined practices. After some initial problem, counterpart
funding was made available for the Project. The February 2002 World Bank Country Portfolio Performance
Review (CPPR) has addressed these issues, leading to an agreement with the Government in the form of an action
plan. This has resulted in the Government making some minor changes. However, problems continue to persist
and need to be addressed in the context of future operations. From a governance perspective, although no actual
mis-procurement was declared by the Bank's Task Managers, the Government and Bank teams had to work
constantly to try and prevent corruption. This was done through several procurement supervision missions and
much technical assistance being provided for the assessment of contracts.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The ERP was the first IDA-financed investment in the Education Sector in Tajikistan. As a first experience, the
Bank and the Government of Tajikistan were faced with considerable constraints during project preparation and
the first year of project implementation, specifically in terms of hiring qualified personnel familiar with the Bank's
administrative, financial and procurement procedures both at central and raion level implementation units.
Notwithstanding this constraint, (i) an appropriate project monitoring system could have been put in place; (ii) the
lines of responsibilities at central and raion project implementation teams could have been more clearly defined
and there could have been more effective coordination among the actors. (iii) communication issues between the
PIUE and the MOE following declaration of project effectiveness led to delays in project implementation; (iii)
since the PIUE was newly established, PIUE staffing, on-the-job training and other external training for capacity
building took time; and (iv) for the school rehabilitation sub-component, procurement was delayed several times
due to improper school construction design which was not effectively identified by PIUE staff.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The Project was implemented between September 28, 1999 and September 30, 2003. It was approved for an
amount of US$5.5 million [of which US$5 million was provided by IDA (about 91 percent of the total), and
US$500,000 by the Government] on May 13, 1999. It closed on September 30, 2003. There was limited
counterpart financing due to severe fiscal constraints.          Government contribution at the end of project
implementation was not significant due to the fact that this funding had been front-loaded. The treasury system
with new rules and regulations has only been introduced recently. IDA-financing at $5 million constituted a
substantial 25 percent of total government spending for education, providing a boost to the education budget. ERP
progressed satisfactorily in terms of disbursements (table below). Project cost breakdown excluding contingencies
comprised 8.6 percent for Component (A)--Capacity Building; 67 percent for Component (B)--Improving
Educational Assets/Materials; and 15.7 percent for Component (C)--Project Management.                8.6 percent was
earmarked for physical and price contingencies. The PAD had outlined some activities which had not been
factored into the Project costing. At the end of project implementation the unit cost for the reforms was estimated
at around $100,000 per pilot school. Grants from the Japanese and Swiss Governments were utilized to contract
consultant services as well as to buy computer equipment for the PIUE office.

               Table 5. Allocations and Disbursements by Component (IDA funds in US$ millions)

                                        Allocation        Percentage of           Actual          Percentage of
              Components              (US$ millions)          total           Disbursements        Allocations
    A. Capacity Building                    0.52               10.4                 0.22               42.3
    B. Improving Educational                3.88               77.6                 3.82               98.5
         Assets/Materials
    C. Project Management                   0.60               12.0                 0.76               126.7
                              Total         5.00              100.0                 4.80               96.0




                                                         - 17 -

The preparation time and resources to design, supervise, and carry out an intensive completion assessment of the
LIL was costly (see Annex 4 for details).         Confining the Project design to three priority areas [(a) school
rehabilitation; (b) textbook rental scheme; and (c) teacher training--training of trainers] would have helped to
deepen both capacity building and improve the quality of education. The EMIS activity could have been excluded.
These criticisms notwithstanding, it must not be forgotten that the extent of education reforms needed were
extensive making it difficult to prioritize investments. Disbursements were on time and close to initial projections
although there were delays in the school rehabilitation sub-component, as well as the need to accommodate the gap
between the new project and the ERP. There were no cancellations, although procurement for school rehabilitation
was delayed in four instances until rehabilitation designs were rectified.

Audit. Satisfactory. Project audits were carried out on an annual basis as set out in the Development Credit
Agreement. During mid-term review financial management issues were addressed, especially deficiencies and
recommendations in the audit report for the year 2000: (i) the lack of consistency in the amount reported for
Government contribution and a difference in the amount received from IDA during the year audited; (ii) internal
control weaknesses ranging from accounting to personnel management issues, inappropriate accounting software
for the PIUE; (iii) documentation supporting the expenditures reported under Statements of Expenses (SOEs) per
Bank's requirements to link expenditures with supporting documents and regular their regular submission to the
Bank; (iv) establishing the use of codes for linking accounting records and its supporting documents; (v) receiving
appropriate information to facilitate the review of expenditures reported in the SOEs; (vi) imposition of access
restrictions so that non-accounting staff can consult the records without the possibility of changing the financial
statements. This requirement arose from the fact that auditors had direct access to accounting software files when
checking transactions which in itself is an internal control deficiency because of the risk involved in allowing more
than read-only access to normally unauthorized persons; and (vii) the timely contracting of auditors for the 2001
and 2002 audits. The Project was also regularly audited by a number of Government departments.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
While many of the Project activities were satisfactorily implemented, the outcomes of the ERP are unlikely to be
sustained [sustainability being defined as the ability of government budget to accommodate the recurrent costs of
the project investment]. The unit costs for rehabilitating the 20 pilot project schools at about $75,000 each, for
management training, for teacher training, and for the PIUE were very high. Going to scale needs to be closely
coordinated with other donors who are actively supporting development efforts in the country, to reduce the unit
costs of rehabilitation and training. Donor coordination will be crucial if all schools in the country are to be
rehabilitated up to minimum acceptable standards. In the area of teacher training, cost effectiveness would be best
achieved by coordinating the ongoing multiple approaches to teacher training.

In order to scale up the satisfactory outcomes of the ERP, follow-on projects need to thoroughly address each of the
above components, earmark funds to introduce required improvements, and focus on scaling up the results.
Although the overall institutional development achievements under the ERP were modest, significant additional
institutional capacity will be needed to handle the volume of work that will arise from going to scale. This will
require significant funding and expertise, and will largely depend on the various agencies in the Ministry of
Education, and especially on constructive collaboration between the Ministry of Education and the PIUE.
Sustaining communications between government ministries, MOE, PIUE and schools is likely only if the working
relationship between various government agencies which has been established is consciously fostered. Again
future projects will need to help foster good communications.

Using international technical assistance versus using local consultants (despite the dearth of local capacity) will be
an issue for follow-on projects. At the rayon level there are indications that many of the useful aspects of ERP will
continue to play a role--for example, the role of PTAs, and the use of new learning methods. As a first step the
textbook rental scheme has already been scaled up on a nationwide basis. Improvements to the national rental
scheme will be necessary if this component is to be sustainable. Sustaining teacher training activities would be
possible only if the successful teacher training component in the ERP and the issue of extending the results




                                                        - 18 -

nationwide are addressed by donors in follow-on projects and in a concerted manner. The teachers trained through
the ERP should be used in future projects. This will help to sustain the efforts for teacher in-service training and
training of trainers under the ERP.

It is difficult to assess whether the budgeting procedures put in place under the ERP, and in the context of the
Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) action plan, will be sustained. There are several in-depth issues in
the CPPR. For example, the issue of multiple government agencies performing audits is being addressed in the
context of the CPPR. In spite of this, it is unsure whether the recommendations of the CPPR will actually be
carried out fully by the Government. This is a major source of concern.

Notwithstanding the above issues, there are certain sub-components which can and will be sustained through
government, donor, and community level support. These include specifically, (a) the textbook rental scheme (to
date); (b) PTA existence; (c) international competitive bidding used for external publishing and printing of
textbooks; and (d) two teacher training centers and classroom based teacher development--establishing the
principle of moving training to the local level.         There is widespread acknowledgement particularly from
beneficiaries that communities have a responsibility to ensure quality education. There is also acceptance in
general of the principle of interactive learning although this needs to be more widely understood.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
An Education Modernization Project (EMP) was finalized towards the end of ERP implementation. Some of the
successful aspects of the ERP are being scaled up or refined (e.g., student assessment, textbook production and
distribution and associated policy reform). Issues flagged in the ICR have been taken into consideration in
designing the EMP. The PIUE will continue to serve as the implementing agency for the EMP. This will provide
a greater likelihood that the institutional capacity developed under the ERP is sustained.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's overall lending performance was satisfactory. Project identification was consistent with government
priorities as expressed in the 1998 CAS. An analysis of sectoral issues to the extent that country level data was
available helped to guide project preparation. The Tajikistan officials had a vision for education reform. The
reform-minded Minister of Education with the Bank's assistance articulated the Tajik's vision for education
reform. There was sufficient stakeholder participation since project design was based on the involvement of all
parties. This strategy was deliberately adopted after identification of the risks of not involving the various
stakeholders (communities, schools, teachers, government officials). Project coordination capacity was built up
through project implementation since the ERP was the first project in the country. The PIUE had inexperienced
staff. Capacity building through the Project was part of the design and implementation; but this was far less than
necessary or desirable. The Project team focused on what was feasible under the circumstances.

As mentioned in the first section in this report, security reasons largely dictated the selection of project pilot
regions. Efforts were made to avoid fragmentation and to improve communication amongst the agencies involved
in project design. The risk assessment of the Project was rated to be substantial at commencement of project
implementation, but later on reduced to "moderate" level as the tensions immediately after the civil war subsided.
The implementation plan except for school rehabilitation was realistic despite the ambitious plans for reforms.
School rehabilitation as scheduled to commence immediately after the Project became effective. However, the
Government found it extremely difficult to provide the required counterpart funding for rehabilitation of schools.
There was a setback in terms of this sub-component becoming operational. The important aspects of project
design and implementation were the level of stakeholder participation, close supervision, and continuous learning
which required adjustments in operating style both on the part of the Borrower as well as the Bank.

The Lending Instrument. The strategy could have been a post-conflict emergency investment first to support fewer
components on a country-wide basis, followed by a LIL to support improvements in learning
outcomes--introduction of assessment system for example. However, everything considered, the decision to utilize



                                                         - 19 -

a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) in Tajikistan was an appropriate one. The LIL helped to commence work
on education at a time when there was no full and proper mandate for the Bank to do so. Human development
assistance was divided in Central Asia, with the Asian Development Bank (ADB) focusing on education and the
Bank focusing on health. But the use of the LIL helped the Bank to bring education into focus. The cost of
preparing, supervising, and implementing a LIL is considerable. It is important that the outcomes of the Project
are either scaled up or replicated in those parts of the country which have not benefited from support under the
LIL.

In 1998-99 LILs were still a relatively new lending instrument and there was no prior experience in the region to
draw upon; there was no knowledge of what LILs were and what they should or could accomplish. There were
examples from other Bank regions to draw upon, which the Project preparation team utilized in designing the
Project. In the context of Tajikistan, the Bank decided that LIL would be the appropriate instrument to start up
work in a country which was just emerging out of civil war, to provide both a response to immediate needs for
rehabilitation and materials, as well as to start innovative and long-term approaches to teacher training and
assessment. ERP was therefore designed as a LIL to introduce reforms on a minor scale, to learn from the process
prior to scaling up good practice outcomes in subsequent operations. The coverage of the Project was too great for
the size of the investment. A combination of both post-conflict emergency investments--textbooks for example,
and ambitious learning goals. The LIL clearly helped to create a good relationship between the MOE and the Bank
by fostering understanding of Bank operations on the one hand, and the education system in the country on the
other through the process of 2 project preparation missions. There was no sector work done prior to the Project
design. Sustainability was an important issue that the task team needed to address while focusing on the numerous
issues in the education system.

As mentioned elsewhere in this document the ERP was prepared on an accelerated timetable.                Moreover,
considering that the ERP was the first project in the education sector, there were a number of effectiveness
conditions for the IDA Credit. This delayed project implementation to some extent. The ambitious project
implementation timetable, specifically for the school rehabilitation sub-component further delayed implementation.
In addition, procurement problems caused the bidding process to be halted often during the course of project
implementation, resulting in two extensions of the Project closing date.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision of ERP was satisfactory.       The Project was intensively supervised to deal with potential risks
throughout project implementation. During the final year of project implementation, supervision was combined
with project preparation of a follow-on Education Modernization Project. The Bank carried out a total of 12
supervision missions. Prior to each one of the supervision missions, the PIUE prepared and delivered to the Bank
in a timely manner, well-documented project implementation progress reports. This helped to accomplish each
mission's objectives. Support from the World Bank Country Office provided continuity between the Project design
and implementation phases through two task managers. This helped to provide the much needed continuity both
for the Bank and the Borrower.

Both the Borrower and the Bank had a steep learning curve.              The Bank listened and responded to the
Government's difficulties with project coordination especially during the initial stages of project implementation.
Response time for no-objection requests was kept to a minimum. However, with respect to school rehabilitation,
contracts had to be stopped due to improper tendering.          Efforts were made for early detection of project
coordination problems and appropriate measures were taken to address them, financial audits were conducted on
time, and procurement reviews were carried out successfully with PIUE staff learning much on-the-job. The PIUE
received continued support and advice as needed, and was effectively strengthened through support in terms of
local and international TA. Sufficient steps were taken to build procurement capacity (2 day training for
contractors to improve contracting process; Procurement training for Project Director, training for accountants).
Working relationship between the PIUE and the MOE was strengthened over time. The supervision missions were
composed of staff with specific expertise in project management who helped to address issues and identify feasible
solutions in a timely manner. As Annexes 1 and 4 indicate, the concerted efforts to supervise helped to ensure a
satisfactory rating for the achievement of the stated Project development objectives and the implementation
progress. Performance ratings were realistic, with sufficient attention paid to project development objectives. The


                                                       - 20 -

supervision of the LIL revealed the challenges of keeping up implementation momentum. The fact that during
project implementation the Task Manager, Operations Analyst, and the Procurement Specialist were located in the
region helped to keep supervision costs down to a minimum. In the absence of such an arrangement, supervision
might not have been as intensive and the costs would have been significantly higher.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. Considering the difficult project implementation environment and limited Borrower capacity to
respond to the complex requirements to reform an education system, as well as to respond to the Bank's project
implementation requirements (financial covenants with respect to financial management, procurement guidelines,
disbursement requirements, etc.), and despite the changes in the task management of the Project, Bank
performance was in general effective. In the area of monitoring and evaluation the Bank's performance was not
satisfactory. ERP was a complex design in a post-conflict situation. It was designed in a short timeframe
according to accelerated timetable, as a fast track operation. There were intensive efforts to supervise project
implementation. Details are outlined in sections 7.1 and 7.2 above.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. ERP was the first project in the education sector in Tajikistan, although not the first project for the
country. The then Minister of Education had a clear vision of the reforms needed for the sector. The main theme
was to change the mentality of teachers. From a project design perspective, MOE and other counterparts had less
of a grasp on how to proceed. There were major problems with lack of capacity at all levels in the system. In spite
of these constraints, the Government was committed to the reforms envisaged during project preparation. The
Government felt that international technical assistance was helpful in project preparation, particularly in the areas
of teacher training, school mapping, textbook printing, textbook rental scheme, and student assessment. Some
international consultants were invited repeatedly to share their expertise and knowledge--for example, for teacher
training. The Government demonstrated its commitment to the Project objectives by complying with all the legal
covenants.

Actual disbursements was on time and mostly in keeping with planned disbursement for the Project
implementation period. At project closing a small amount remained un-disbursed. Due to a weak banking system,
early on in the implementation phase, the Government changed bank accounts. This resulted in lost time and late
disbursement of project funds, delaying the rehabilitation component by about 6 months.              During project
implementation there were issues relating to exchange rate fluctuations. In the course of project implementation
the Project lost $250,000 in exchange rate due to the fall in the value of the Somoni. This amount would have
helped to rehabilitate three to four schools. The Borrower's contention is that the Bank should increase the first
allocation to projects so that the PIUE can deposit it in the Bank and earn interest on the amount to help pay for
large capital expenses such as rehabilitation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. Being the first education project in Tajikistan, the Government had a steep learning curve as did the
Bank. Numerous small administrative problems sometimes substantially affected staff and project performance.
Some important aspects of implementation performance included the following: (i) Travel abroad: travel expenses
regulations in the country were incompatible with the actual cost of training abroad. Teachers who went on study
tours were requested to pay back the difference out of their own pockets. PIU staff salaries were docked with the
explanation that PIU staff were being paid much higher salaries than the going rates in the local market. Despite
the trying times and disincentives, PIU staff continued to carry out their responsibilities, leading to the relatively
successful completion of the Project implementation. (ii) Capacity building is a major objective for most donor
financed projects. Initially the Government was hesitant about buying international technical assistance under the
IDA Credit. There was a strong feeling that in order to build local capacity, more local expertise ought to be
employed, more in-country and on-the-job training could be provided. Nevertheless, the Government did see the
value in using foreign technical assistance and did freely request it when it became apparent during project
implementation that local capacity was relatively scarce.       (iii) Auditing: the repeated audits by Government
authorities burdened PIU staff despite the fact that several World Bank supervision missions had closely followed
the activities of the PIU. PIU staff found themselves spending inordinate time preparing reports in different



                                                       - 21 -

formats for each audit. This interfered with the smooth operations of the PIU. (iv) Dismissal of the PIU Director:
This was done very suddenly and without consultation with the Bank, leaving project activities very much at risk.
Despite the drastically sudden dismissal of the PIUE Director, project activities went on as planned.

Overall, the Government felt that technical assistance for overall project management, financial and procurement
management was very helpful especially during the first year of project implementation.             The Government
recommends introducing improvements to the pilot activities of the ERP, and spreading the outcomes of the
Project to the other regions of the country, particularly the work with PTAs, textbooks printing, textbook rental
scheme, and rehabilitation of schools.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory.   The PIUE gained capacity and knowledge of Bank procedures and procurement guidelines
throughout project implementation. The PIUE's performance was satisfactory with regard to project management
and coordination of project activities. Timely reports on project achievements were prepared and submitted to IDA
as expected.

Initial procurement problems were gradually resolved with regard to infrastructure contracting, but because of the
need to constantly highlight transparency, the unit and the contractors need further training in Bank methods. The
NCB for works contracts and the steps in engaging individual consultants were well carried out. However, towards
the end of the Project implementation procurement rating deteriorated as explained elsewhere in this report.
Although mis-procurement was never declared on the Project, there were numerous incidences of poor practice
which should not have taken place. These include: (a) continued use of small contracts to a single supplier; and (b)
poor preparation of design drawings for schools leading to cost overruns.

Findings of a procurement post-review revealed that the PIUE's conduct of shopping had in some respects not been
fully satisfactory. The underlying reasons were that the information given to suppliers was insufficient to permit
them to respond in a satisfactory manner, that suppliers were given insufficient time to supply considerable
quantities of school furniture to the Ministry warehouse. In addition, there was no information from the Ministry
as to when the furniture would be distributed by the Ministry, and to how many schools.

The procurement post-review also pointed to the recurrence of the names of certain suppliers. The PIUE's
explanation that it was difficult to find a larger number of qualified suppliers able and willing to participate in the
competition for contracts in projects corroborated the general tendency in the country.            The procurement
post-review assessment was that the PIUE could have performed better in this regard particularly since two
training sessions on how to conduct shopping had already been conducted for PIUE staff. Notwithstanding these
issues, the PIUE was responsive to requests for corrective action.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall the Borrower's performance was satisfactory during the course of project preparation and implementation.
The Borrower showed willingness to change and improve procedures.                There were difficulties in project
implementation, but these were overcome satisfactorily and throughout the implementation period the Government
has shown a commitment to improving education and introducing reforms. Local school staff and parents, in
particular, showed enthusiasm for assistance with project activities, and pride in the results. This is commendable
considering the poverty of the country in financial terms. The Ministry was responsive to the Bank and requests
for changes in strategy and consultation and communication were good. However, there needs to be ongoing
commitment to broader implementation of the reforms started under the ERP so that these are carried forward in
the long term. This will mean looking hard at the financing of the system in order to maximize resources.

8. Lessons Learned

General Lessons

 The use of the lending instrument LIL in first time, post-conflict operations can help to introduce learning and
    innovation. LILs can be catalysts to introduce significant/important reforms on a minor scale, to learn from the



                                                       - 22 -

  process prior to scaling up good practice outcomes in subsequent operations, and to commence policy dialogue.
  Supporting client's initiatives through technical assistance to scale up pilots even as they are being
  implemented can help to replicate good ideas.      Evaluation of the pilots should be undertaken to inform the
  scaling up of project pilot activities.

 Under post-conflict circumstances, a first time operation in a sector should be strategically focused, financing
  only some key interventions and not include all pressing needs in the operation since with increased complexity
  implementation suffers delays. With a LIL there is a pressing need to obtain in a short time the learning and
  innovation knowledge for a major follow-up operation. In post-conflict LIL operations, human and institutional
  capacity building should be given equal importance as improving infrastructure and educational materials. A
  combination of traditional (such as rehabilitation of infrastructure) and innovative components (textbook rental
  scheme) can help to build policy dialogue and lay the foundation to introduce reforms.

 Complex components such as Education Management Information System (EMIS) and student assessments
  typically require time to design, implement, fine-tune and evaluate. Ideally, these aspects should feature
  prominently as major components (rather than as small components) of a LIL with sufficient funding and
  technical assistance allocated for these important components.           However, a LIL with several complex
  components can lead to sub-optimization of local capacity, and will frustrate well meaning local capacity to
  respond to multiple demands of project implementation.

 A LIL offers a good starting point to build capacity in post-conflict situations particularly in the context of weak
  institutional arrangements since it allows the opportunity to pilot innovations. Commencing with a modest
  project can help to acquire knowledge about how aspects work in the country, assess the absorptive capacity of
  stakeholders, build political commitment, promote ownership for project design and implementation, and
  optimize the contributions of local capacity.   Project implementation combined with technical assistance and
  knowledge sharing provide excellent ground for on-the-job learning. These aspects combined with formal
  training can help to build considerable institutional capacity. Borrowers benefit tremendously from having
  access to good practice examples through study tours, seminars, and workshops, and on the "how to" of project
  component implementation.

 In post-conflict circumstances and first time sector operations, procurement must receive utmost attention from
  the project preparation stage. Missions should, jointly with government, prepare the first year procurement
  plan and have the first package for tendering completed at project effectiveness. Greatest use should be made of
  standard bidding documents. While procurement training is a needed part of project assistance, it is time
  consuming. Yet a new Bank client needs such experience from project start to avoid implementation delays.
  The project should finance for the start-up phase a highly qualified procurement specialist who is familiar with
  Bank procedures and can train staff while doing the job for the PIU.

 The inclusion of an architect/civil engineer during preparation and supervision can help to avoid civil works
  problems such as cost overrides and helping to keep up the momentum of implementation. In addition, such
  staffing could have advanced standard designs for construction and standard bidding documents prior to
  effectiveness thereby avoiding start-up problems.

 In circumstances where ownership has rested with the State (centralized) and not with project stakeholders,
  targeted efforts are required to build ownership for project design and implementation, and sustain stakeholder
  ownership. Changing power relations is time consuming, and is often met with resistance and requires
  reinforcement. Building national ownership can be fostered through consultations and vetting at each stage of
  project design and community collaboration through community driven development (CDD). The MOE and
  PIU must work closely to ensure ownership of project implementation. It is important to build ownership not
  only at MOE and PIU levels, but also at the provincial/oblast and district/Hukumat administrative levels to
  ensure project success. This will help to institutionalize procedures which will later assist in sustaining
  stakeholder ownership.      For example, in the context of the ERP, the introduction of parents-teachers
  associations (PTAs) and the cost sharing requirement for school rehabilitation helped parents to express their



                                                      - 23 -

  views about school management, and thereby to increase accountability at the school level. Following project
  implementation PTAs have become an integral part of school management since these stakeholders
  participation has been institutionalized. In the absence of the CDD efforts, the ERP would not have achieved
  the level of success it did.

 Plans to build in evaluations and assessments during the Project implementation period can help to reconcile
  the depth and breadth of assessment needed for good project design and to address the tension between
  Borrower's urgency to receive donor funding and the Bank's project processing timetable.

 High level of supervision is called for with a new client. Complex project design puts extreme stress on the
  implementing agency and on Bank staff who have to cope with limited supervision resources. The cost
  implications for keeping up implementation momentum must be taken into consideration. Bank budgets for
  LIL supervision should be structured accordingly. All these point to arguments for streamlined, focused
  projects which fully take into account the government's institutional capacities.

 The ERP was the first LIL in Tajikistan. However, this should not be the last, either in the education sector or
  in other sectors in the country particularly if innovative ideas are to be tested on a pilot basis, focus limited
  resources to shore up lessons learned for wider replication. LILs are particularly helpful in post-conflict
  situations to build political commitment. However, it is important to note that LILs can turn out to have the
  same implementation period as in the context of using another lending instrument.

 The Bank's regular project processing and implementation procedures are not particularly well adapted to
  designing and implementing LILs. The most evident example being procurement procedures. The rapid
  execution of a LIL and avoidance of implementation delays require simplified Bank procedures, or at least
  procedures and methods which are appropriate and adaptable to particular country circumstances.

Project Specific Lessons

 Teacher training: Supporting materials should be provided during training for new teaching methods. For
  example, the English book `Interactive Learning' translated into Tajik by the PIUE Teacher Training Specialist
  or similar books should be made available. Training should include role-play to reinforce the learning process
  and should be followed up at regular intervals at seminars. Teachers sent on training should be selected
  competitively and should always be from project schools. Another aspect is to address the varying approaches
  to teacher training by different donors.    Future projects should focus on developing a national vision to
  introduce certified teacher training.

 PTAs: should be provided with supporting literature and training seminars which include PTA members from
  several schools and areas as this would provide an ideal opportunity for networking links between PTAs. PTAs
  should be supervised regarding the use of small grants which is scheduled to be provided in the second project
  [Education Modernization Project], including instruction on how to submit basic proposals regarding why they
  are requesting a grant and what they will use it for, including measurable performance indicators.

 Rehabilitation--value for money: Inclusion of an architect/civil engineer during project preparation would
  provide value for money. Another aspect is that schools which have been rehabilitated by other organizations
  in the country (for example, by the Asian Development Bank, the Aga Khan Foundation, the Mountain
  Sciences Development Support Program or Mercy Corps) should be visited to see what level of rehabilitation is
  possible for what investment.      These site visits should provide a benchmark against which to measure
  rehabilitation work carried out by the second project [Education Modernization Project]. This is crucial in
  order to: (a) ensure that rehabilitation investments offer good value for money; (b) accomplish significant
  improvements with reasonable investments; and (c) ensure that good quality reconstruction work is undertaken.




                                                       - 24 -

  Rehabilitation--procurement and monitoring: The pre-qualification process for civil work contractors in
    crucial. The procurement guidelines 3.15 for pre-qualification for small contractors and the increased use of
    local shopping should be followed in future operations. Adopting this procedure could have helped to avoid
    some of the civil works problems faced in the ERP. Equally important is the adherence to proper quality
    standards of construction which are the prime cause for corruption among contractors. Complementing the
    financial audit with a technical audit would help to address quality standards for construction.

  Textbook production: Textbooks should be written by skilled teachers in collaboration with scientists and
    psychologists who have a solid foundation and good knowledge of the national curriculum and its needs.
    Textbooks should be produced on a competitive basis and reviewed by a board of reviewers. They should be
    tested on a limited probationary basis to ensure that they are appropriate for the intended audience. After
    production, the process of textbook distribution to PTAs and from PTAs to pupils should be closely monitored
    to ensure that no books intended for rent end up being sold in the market.

  Project monitoring: particularly for the procurement and rehabilitation process should be extremely stringent.
    The option of project monitoring in association with NGOs doing similar work should be explored. The more
    levels of administration involved in a project, the greater the potential for `leakage' of project funds. As such
    cash flow structure should be closely monitored and be as simple as possible to ensure that funds flows are
    easily traceable. A full-time Tajik monitoring team should be in place and should carry out regular site visits
    and check procurement quotes with respect to costs of materials.

l   Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) requires careful attention during project implementation.                 Project
    implementation process becomes a preoccupation for the PIU. A tested, well functioning EMIS needs to be put
    in place to gather relevant data for analyzing the impact of the introduction of reforms, and for providing the
    government with appropriate data to inform decision-making.

 9. Partner Comments

 (a) Borrower/implementing agency:
 On the whole, project execution was satisfactory. Project activities were carried out in the stipulated time with the
 exception of rehabilitation of two schools. Details of Borrower's contribution are available in Annex 10.

 (b) Cofinanciers:
 Not applicable.

 (c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
 Comments reflected in Annex 8 [Beneficiary Assessment].

 10. Additional Information

 An intensive learning for the project ICR was commenced for the ERP in September 2002 (field work) by which
 time project implementation had been completed with the exception of rehabilitation in two schools. The Project
 closing date was extended from March 30, 2003 to September 30, 2003 to allow time for the Borrower to complete
 the rehabilitation of the two remaining schools. The first draft of the ICR was completed by end-March 2003 and
 the lessons learned was taken into consideration in the preparation of the Education Modernization Project. Per
 requirement for the intensive learning ICR, (i) a post-project implementation beneficiary assessment was carried
 out in September 2003. The methodology and findings of the Beneficiary Assessment are provided in Annex 8;
 and (ii) an ICR stakeholder workshop was held in October 2003 to discuss the findings of the ICR and share the
 results of the beneficiary assessment. The discussion and recommendations of the stakeholders workshop are
 included in Annex 9.




                                                        - 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                            Actual/Latest Estimate
Development of teacher skills in active       Teacher training methodologies integrated       --Teacher training activities completed in Fall
learning methods in 20 pilot schools by EOP into pilot schools and disseminated through       2002, with teacher centers now handed over
                                              ongoing activities in teacher training centers. to local authorities to run with the assistance
                                                                                              of other donors.
                                                                                              --Integrating new training methodologies is a
                                                                                              long-term activity.

Rehabilitation of 20 pilot schools, three     Completion of all rehabilitation activities.    --All rehabilitation work successfully
training centers, and two District Education  Rehabilitation cost and quality improvement     completed. Due diligence exercised through
Offices                                       through due diligence.                          careful scrutiny of contracts and appropriate
                                                                                              action exercised to stop contracts that did not
                                                                                              meet the due diligence criteria.

Reform of system of textbook development,     Letter of development policy for textbooks      --Reform of textbook system is a long-term
publishing, printing, and distribution.       issued by October in conjunction with the       activity which was introduced through the
                                              development of the follow-on Education          Project. As a first step 18 book titles were
                                              Modernization Project.                          printed and distributed successfully. The
                                                                                              follow-on Education Modernization Project is
                                                                                              moving the reform agenda forward for
                                                                                              textbooks.
                                                                                              --Letter of development policy for textbooks
                                                                                              issues in October 2002 (10/16/2002) in
                                                                                              conjunction with the development of a new
                                                                                              project [EMP].

Building management capacity in the Ministry                                                  --Capacity building activities were
of Education, two pilot regions, and 20 pilot                                                 successfully carried out. The Government is
schools.                                                                                      committed to reforms and capacity building at
                                                                                              different levels in the education sector. The
                                                                                              Education Modernization Project will continue
                                                                                              on the foundation built by the Education
                                                                                              Reform Project.

Application of lessons learned to broad                                                       --Ongoing through the Education
education reforms.                                                                            Modernization Project.
                                                                                              --Underway through development of policy
                                                                                              initiatives, sector dialogue.

Sector Policy Reform Objectives:                                                              --Ongoing through sector dialogue.
Replacement of current hierarchical,
specialty-driven system to a flexible general
compulsory education system; rationalization
of school functions; introduction of teacher
and school staff retention initiatives




                                                                 - 26 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
A. Capacity Building

1. Training

--Training for teacher trainers               1. 1,031 teachers trained in "active          --1,031 teachers successfully trained.
                                              learning " methods by 2002.                   Critical mass of teachers trained.
                                                                                            --Teachers exposed to international good
                                                                                            practices in active teaching methods through
                                                                                            study tours to neighboring countries.

-- In-service training for teachers in pilot  2. Teacher training college identifies        -- In-service teacher training has proved to be
schools                                       best practice for in-service training and has relatively successful.
                                              drafted a dissemination plan.                 -- Knowledge dissemination through
                                                                                            professional interaction with colleagues and
                                                                                            peers from other institutions at training
                                                                                            sessions.

-- New teaching methodologies applied and     3. % of lessons in the 20 pilot schools where -- Teacher training methodologies integrated
pilot-tested in 20 schools                    teachers use "active learning" techniques.    into pilot schools and disseminated through
                                                                                            ongoing activities in teacher training centers.
                                                                                            -- Teachers were using "active learning"
                                                                                            techniques to the extent possible. However,
                                                                                            large student-teacher ratio made it difficult for
                                                                                            teachers to supervise individual student's
                                                                                            work in a group learning environment.
                                                                                            -- There was no curriculum development
                                                                                            activity under the ERP. However, as part of
                                                                                            the preparation of the new project [EMP]
                                                                                            approaches to developing improved
                                                                                            curriculum have been included.

-- Management-training for school principals 4. % increase in school resources due          -- Significant in-kind contribution from
                                              to parents contributions--01.                 parents for school rehabilitation.
                                                                                            -- Despite willingness to pay (as cash
                                                                                            contribution), ability to pay limited.

-- Parents meetings in pilot schools          5. % of parents involved in maintaining pilot -- Increasing parental involvement observed
                                              schools to a functional level --02.           in maintenance of schools.




2. Management Training

-- Ministry of Education                      6. Clear roles and responsibilities at        -- Greater clarity in roles and responsibilities
                                              central and local level established           at various administrative levels over time.
                                              nationwide and implemented in the
                                              pilot Rayons and schools.

                                              7. Content of information disseminated from   -- No data or information available.
                                              the MOE to the schools includes
                                              international experiences and updated
                                              evaluation of the impact of the new
                                              teaching methods.

                                              8. 5 MOE officials completed                  -- Management training completed. Study
                                              management training and use the               tour for MOE officials to Sweden, England,
                                              new skills.                                   Scotland and the Netherlands to familiarize
                                                                                            them with the experience/work of education
                                                                                            systems. Deputy Minister of Education,
                                                                                            Head of Dushanbe Education Office, PIUE
                                                                                            Director and PIUE Specialist are using the
                                                                                            training for day-to-day operations and for
                                                                                            strategic reform decisions.




                                                                 - 27 -

-- Rayon Education Administration             9. 10 pilot Rayon officials completed           -- Management training completed.
                                              management training and use the
                                              new skills.

                                              10. Periodical meeting between MOE and          -- MOE and pilot rayon officials meet on a
                                              pilot rayon institutionalized                   regular basis to discuss education reform
                                                                                              issues.

-- School Administration                      11. 20 school principals completed              -- Management seminars for school directors
Teacher training institutions                 management training and use the new             and deputy directors completed. School
                                              skills.                                         directors together with their staff have
                                                                                              developed School Development Plans
                                                                                              (SDPs).


3. Student Assessment                         12. % of better performance by                  -- Student assessment system was initiated
                                              students within pilot schools than the          for Grade 4 students. However, the results
                                              average student in other schools.               were not comparable at this time due to the
                                                                                              fact that the test was changed during the
                                                                                              third round. While pilot schools did seem to
                                                                                              improve, the analysis of the results was
                                                                                              rather poor rendering them un-usable.
                                                                                              -- Assessment was carried out three times.
                                                                                              At mid-term the results were poor. However,
                                                                                              this may have been due to inexperience,
                                                                                              faulty test design or lack of capacity in data
                                                                                              analysis. Results show no decline in pilot
                                                                                              schools.

                                              13. % of students achieving satisfactory        -- By September 2001, 89.5% or students
                                              levels in mathematics, reading and civics       had received satisfactory points. New data
                                                                                              from last assessment awaited.


B. Improving Educational Assets/Materials

1. Refurbishment and equipment                14. Number of schools upgraded to               -- Pilot schools have been rehabilitated to
                                              functional standards.                           functional standards.

-- MOE: Equipment                             15. MOE equipped.                               -- Computers purchased for MOE.

-- Pilot rayon: Civil works and equipment.    16. Pilot rayon offices refurbished and         -- Rayon offices refurbished.
                                              equipped.                                       -- Rayon offices including Educational
                                                                                              Center, Institute of Teacher Improvement,
                                                                                              and Dushanbe Education Department
                                                                                              equipped with computers.

-- Teacher training/ retraining institutions: 17. Centers for pilot teacher training          -- 2 teacher training centers in Dushanbe
Civil works and equipment                     refurbished and equipped                        have been refurbished and equipped. They
                                                                                              are serving as model centers for in-service
                                                                                              teacher training.


2. Textbooks

-- Printing of 18 titles                      18. 18 titles of textbooks distributed to all   -- Successful production and distribution of
                                              primary school students in all pilot schools by 18 titles of textbooks.
                                              -00.                                            -- Textbooks produced on the basis of
                                                                                              international competitive bidding.

                                              19. % of students nationwide who have           -- Government initiated textbook rental
                                              received textbooks.                             scheme based on the ERP model.
                                                                                              -- All students nationwide have access to the
                                                                                              textbook rental scheme.
                                                                                              -- At one-third the market price, the textbook
                                                                                              rental scheme price is high. Parents with 2
                                                                                              or more school going children are willing but
                                                                                              unable to pay to rent textbooks.




                                                                   - 28 -

-- Reform the system of textbook                         -- Significant technical assistance provided in
development, publishing, printing, and                   addressing needed reforms and
distribution.                                            recommendations.
                                                         -- Letter of development policy for textbooks
                                                         issues in October 2002 (10/16/2002) in
                                                         conjunction with the development of a new
                                                         project [EMP].


C. Project Management

-- Setting up efficient project management.              -- PIUE established, equipped and well
                                                         staffed.
                                                         -- PIUE staff have received both on-the-job
                                                         and external training, resulting in
                                                         considerable capacity development.

-- Monitoring and evaluation                             -- Project monitored closely through
                                                         supervision missions and by the PIUE.


1End of project




                                               - 29 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                              Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                               Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                              US$ million    US$ million
A. Capacity Building                                              0.52            0.22          46.8
B. Improving Educational Assets/Materials                         4.06            3.99         107.8
C. Project Management                                             0.92            0.86           100

Total Baseline Cost                                               5.50            5.07
                         Total Project Costs                      5.50            5.07
                   Total Financing Required                       5.50            5.07
Note: Project Costs by components includes physical and price contingencies.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB             NCB                   2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                           0.00              1.79            0.00          0.00        1.79
                                   (0.00)           (1.61)           (0.00)        (0.00)     (1.61)
2. Goods                           1.65              0.00            0.64          0.00        2.29
                                   (1.65)           (0.00)           (0.64)        (0.00)     (2.29)
3. Services                        0.00              0.00            0.93          0.00        0.93
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.93)        (0.00)     (0.93)
4. Incremental Operating           0.00              0.00            0.49          0.00        0.49
Costs
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.17)        (0.00)     (0.17)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00              0.00            0.00          0.00        0.00
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00              0.00            0.00          0.00        0.00
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                           1.65              1.79            2.06          0.00        5.50
                                   (1.65)           (1.61)           (1.74)        (0.00)     (5.00)




                                                 - 30 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               0.00               1.60              0.00             0.00              1.60
                                      (0.00)             (1.44)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.44)
2. Goods                               1.60               0.00              0.79             0.00              2.39
                                      (1.60)             (0.00)            (0.78)            (0.00)           (2.38)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              0.82             0.00              0.82
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.81)            (0.00)           (0.81)
4. Incremental Operating               0.00               0.00              0.17             0.00              0.17
Costs
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.10)            (0.00)           (0.10)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                               1.60               1.60              1.78             0.00              4.98
                                      (1.60)             (1.44)            (1.69)            (0.00)           (4.73)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Although the initial costs of putting in place new mechanisms were high, the long-term benefits to the education
sector are promising. From a quantitative perspective calculating the economic costs and benefits has not been
possible. However, evidence shows that the Government has scaled up some of the promising activities of ERP on
a countrywide basis (textbook rental scheme, teacher training) through the follow-on project--the Education
Modernization Project.




                                                     - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/28/98                  4    Team Leader/Sr. Education
                                             Specialist (1); PTL/Principal HD
                                             Economist (1); Education
                                             Economist (1); Procurement
                                             Specialist (1);

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/26/98                  6    Team Leader/Sr. Education
                                             Specialist (1); PTL/Principal
                                             HD Economist (1);
                                             Operations Analyst (1);
                                             Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Human Resource
                                             Specialist/Consultant (1);
                                             Teacher Training
                                             Specialist/Consultant (1)
              04/28/99                  7    Team Leader/Sr. Education
                                             Specialist (1); PTL/Principal HD
                                             Economist (1); Education
                                             Economist (1); Operations
                                             Analyst (1); Procurement
                                             Specialist (1); Financial
                                             Management Specialist (1);
                                             Human Resource
                                             Specialist/Consultant (1)
              Project Launch            3    Education Specialist;
              July 1999                      Country Officer;
                                             Community Dev. Specialist

 Supervision
              01/20/2000                6    Team Leader/Education                HS              S
                                             Specialist (1); Operations
                                             Officer (1); Education
                                             Economist (1); Procurement
                                             Specialist (1); Textbooks
                                             Specialist/Consultant (1);
                                             Peace Education (1)
              01/20/2000                3    Team Leader/Sr. Education            HS              S
                                             Specialist (1); Operations
                                             Analyst (1); Fin. Management
                                             Specialist(1)
              12/14/2000                3    Team Leader/Education                HS              S
                                             Specialist (1);
                                             Fin. Management Specialist (1);
                                             Operations Analyst (1)
              04/01/2001                3    Team Leader (1);                     S               S




                                              - 33 -

                                             Procurement/ENGINEER (1);
                                             Project Coordinator (1)
               Mid-term Review          7    Team Leader/Education                S    S
               Sept/Oct 2001                 Specialist (1);
                                             Fin. Management Specialist (1);
                                             Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Assessment Specialist (1);
                                             Teacher Training Specialist (1);
                                             Textbooks Specialist (1);
                                             Operations Analyst (1).
               12/07/2001               3    Resident Representative (1);         S    S
                                             Team Leader/Education
                                             Specialist (1); Operations
                                             Analyst (1)
               06/30/2002               3    Team Leader (1); Girls               S    S
                                             Education Specialist (1);
                                             Textbook Specialist (1)
               06/30/2002               7    Team Leader (1); Operations          S    S
                                             Analyst (1); Economists (2);
                                             Girls Education Specialist (1);
                                             Curriculum Specialist (1); Social
                                             Scientist (1);

 ICR
               09/02/02                9     Team Leader (1); PTL/Lead
                                             HD Economsit (1); TL for
                                             ICR/Operations Officer (1);
                                             Operatihons Analyst (1);
                                             Textbook/Education
                                             Specialist (1); Procurement
                                             Specialist (1); FMS (1);
                                             Economist/Consultants (2)
               10/20/02                2     TL for ICR/Operations Officer
                                             (1); Operations Analyst (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                  No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                31                         110,595
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                           95.51                          252,640
  ICR                                       16                          45,000
  Total                               142.51                           408,235




                                             - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Dorst, Annelies M.L. Background report on Economics and Budgeting in the Education Sector in Tajikistan.
        March 1999. World Bank Preparation mission consultant report.

Government of Tajikistan. Borrower's Report on Implementation Completion. April 2003.

Penrose, Joanna. World Bank Tajikistan Education Reform Project (1999-2003) Final Beneficiary Assessment
        Report. September 2003. World Bank Implementation Completion consultant report.

Nezam, Taies. Tajikistan Education Project (LIL): Beneficiary Assessment. April 22, 1999. World Bank Project
              Preparation Background Paper.

World Bank. Project Appraisal Document. "Republic of Tajikistan: Education Reform Project." Report No:
              18985-TJ.
        May 1999.




                                                   - 37 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

                      Summary of Beneficiary Assessment Findings and Recommendations

1.1       Beneficiary Assessment: Background
This report is the result of a field-based assessment during which beneficiaries and stakeholders of the World Bank
Education Reform Project were interviewed to ascertain their views of project implementation. The beneficiary
assessment therefore aimed to assess the value of the Project as seen by various stakeholders and then to present
these findings, in English and Russian, in such a way that they can be used to inform project design and
implementation for future projects and particularly for the World Bank Education Modernization Project due to
start in autumn 2003.

The beneficiary assessment was prepared as part of the process of completing the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) for the Education Reform Project. The findings of both reports were discussed at the ICR stakeholder
workshop held in Dushanbe in October 2003.

1.2       Beneficiary Assessment: Key Findings
This report contains summaries of the views expressed by each of the beneficiary and stakeholder groups (Ministry
of Education Officials, representatives of other government Ministries and Agencies, District Education Officials,
Local Government Officials, Teacher Training Center Representatives, and finally, school directors, teachers,
Parent-Teacher Association (PTA) members and pupils from the pilot schools visited).              In order to ensure
confidentiality, the pilot schools visited during the beneficiary assessment are not named in this report but are
referred to with alphabetic codes.

The beneficiary assessment found that the views of the vast majority of beneficiaries and stakeholders were
relatively consistent and therefore the picture, which emerges of the successes and failures of project
implementation, is almost unanimous. However, even for the areas of project implementation, which beneficiaries
and stakeholders said they were most happy about, there were several suggestions for how these could be improved.


Overall, the following aspects of the Project were seen as the most positive:
 The introduction for the first time in Tajikistan of a textbook-rental system, which increased access to textbooks
   in a situation of chronic textbook shortages.
 The introduction of new teaching methods which increased teacher's professional satisfaction and pupil's
   participation.
 Schoolreconstructionandtheprovisionofschoolequipment.
 The creation of PTAs which worked to improve relations between schools and communities and to increase
   parental participation in school life.

For the Project activities outlined above, several negative aspects were also identified. These can be summarized as
follows:
 Textbooksweredifficulttounderstandasthelanguageusedwasratherofaveryhighstandard,andsomebooks
   also contained factual, spelling, grammatical and errors in syntax.
 Despite the introduction of new teaching methods, some teachers sent for training were not from pilot schools
   and others left their teaching posts after returning from training. There was a lack of follow-up for the teacher
   training provided and of supporting material (literature or handouts) at training.
 The reconstruction work carried out in schools was described by all parties as being of low quality. The reasons
   given for the low quality of the work were that the inputs used were of uniformly poor quality. Overall, it was
   widely felt that for the large investments supposedly used for reconstruction, the visible results were much less
   far-reaching than would have been expected. NGO representatives commented that the results of the 75,000
   USD investment per pilot school for reconstruction were very poor and that this represented bad value for
   money when compared with rehabilitation work done by NGOs for smaller amounts but which resulted in much
   better quality and more far-reaching rehabilitation.



                                                        - 38 -

 PTAs mentioned that they lacked literature and training regarding how to use the grants provided by the
Project.


2.       Project Background
The Project for which this final beneficiary assessment was carried out was a learning and innovation credit to the
Republic of Tajikistan for an education reform project to the amount of 3.7 million SDR (5.5 million USD
equivalent). The Project, which focused on school rehabilitation, introducing new teaching methods, reforming the
production and distribution of textbooks and building management capacity in the MoE, in district MoE
administrations and at project schools was designed as a pilot project in 20 schools which could later be replicated
on a larger-scale taking into account lessons learnt during the first project. Implementation was planned so as to
involve the central, regional and school administration, as well as parents, students and the community at large.
Project activities began end-September 1999 and closed on September 30th 2003.

For the Project, 20 pilot schools were identified in 2 Rayons; Leninsky (15 schools) and Dushanbe City
(Frunzensky District  5 schools). According to the Project Appraisal Document, the MoE selected the pilot
schools in collaboration with education officials from Dushanbe and Leninsky. Fifty percent of the schools (seven
schools in Leninsky and three in Dushanbe) were chosen on a competitive basis, based on school plans for
improving activities and the involvement of communities, parents and teachers and the remaining fifty percent of
schools were chosen based on the perceived level of need. Overall, the selection was based on the potential of the
schools to change and improve.

The main purpose of the Project for which the beneficiary assessment was conducted was `to improve access to
high quality education as well as to raise learning achievements of students'. This overall objective was to be
achieved via the following five activities; (i) developing and piloting enhanced teaching and management
methodologies, (ii) rehabilitating 20 pilot schools in Leninsky and Dushanbe in a way which could later be
replicated geographically, (iii) improving access to high quality textbooks by reforming the system of textbook
development, publishing and distribution, (iv) building management capacity in the Ministry of Education (MoE),
the two pilot rayon school administrations and at the pilot schools and (v) consolidating the learning experience
from this pilot project in order to apply the lessons learnt to broader reforms in the education sector.

3.       Beneficiary Assessment: Objectives and Methodology
The beneficiary assessment was carried out over a three-week period in September 2003 by an international
consultant working with a local research team in collaboration with the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the
Ministry of Education.

The aim of the beneficiary assessment was to assess the value of the pilot education reform project as seen by
various stakeholders and then to present these findings, in English and Russian, in such a way that they can be
used to inform project design and implementation for future projects. The beneficiary assessment therefore
represents in written form various stakeholders' views of the Project and includes both the successes and the
shortcomings. During the beneficiary assessment, an effort was made to ensure that stakeholders' views for how
the Project could have been improved were ascertained and these recommendations appear throughout the
assessment, in each respondent category, and are also included in section five `Conclusions and
Recommendations'.

Qualitative methods of research were used for the assessment and background information was taken from the
original beneficiary assessment for the Project and project documents. The local researchers were given two days
training and preparation time before beginning fieldwork during which the background for the Project was
presented and the interview guides were developed and translated.




                                                         - 39 -

The beneficiary assessment relied primarily on individual interviews, semi-structured key informant interviews and
focus groups. The interview guides used for the two focus group types (see appendices two and three) were
discussed both with the World Bank Education Officer in Dushanbe and with the PIUE, Ministry of Education.
The interview guides were also finally agreed upon by the World Bank Washington-based beneficiary assessment
supervisor.

The schools visited during the assessment were selected on a random basis taking into account the proportion of
pilot schools in Dushanbe and Leninsky so that this would be fairly represented in the assessment and taking into
account the geography of the schools so that both relatively accessible and less accessible schools were visited. In
addition to five discussion groups with pupils from various grades in three schools, the following key informant
interviews, semi-structured interviews and focus groups were carried out:
 Semi-structured, key informant interviews with four staff from the two teacher training centers in Dushanbe
   and Leninsky, and with four administrators in the District Education Offices.
 Five Focus groups with (1) staff, local government officials and administrators from a sample of five schools
   and communities within Leninsky and Dushanbe districts.
 Five Focus groups (2) with members of the PTA and school staff from five schools to ascertain the effect of
   PTA activities on the schools.
 Key informant interviews with staff at three schools involved in the control group for the assessment program,
   and with staff at three NGOs whose programs work in the same community based ways to ascertain spin off
   effects.
 Semi structured key informant interviews with five Ministry of Education staff at the central level, and six staff
   at other Ministries (Ministry of Finance (four interviews), President's Office (one interview), Aid Coordination
   Unit (one interview) to ascertain the effect of the Project on the broader education system.

                             Figure 1: Schools Visited During Beneficiary Assessment

  Area                    School                   Urban/ Rural           Number of Pupils        Number of Grades
  Dushanbe                AD                       Urban                  1327                    11
                          BD (Control)             Urban                  2297                    11
  Leninsky                AL                       Rural                  420                     9
                          BL                       Rural                  658                     11
                          CL                       Rural                  465                     9
                          DL                       Urban                  2000                    11
                          EL (Control)             Rural                  522                     9
                          FL (Control)             Urban                  1442                    11

During the beneficiary assessment, eight schools were visited (five pilot schools and three control schools). Of
these, fifty percent were rural schools and fifty percent were urban. Of the pilot schools visited, four were in
Leninsky and one was in Dushanbe. The emphasis on visiting schools in Leninsky was derived from the overall
distribution of pilot schools as only five pilot schools were in Dushanbe whilst fifteen were in Leninsky.

4.       Conclusions and recommendations

On the basis of the findings of the beneficiary assessment, the following conclusions and recommendations can be
made. Several aspects of project implementation were seen positively by project beneficiaries and stakeholders
although no single activity was seen as wholly successful and for each activity seen positively, several negative
aspects of implementation or execution were also identified. The key findings of the beneficiary assessment will not
be repeated here as they are already outlined in the executive summary (section one).




                                                         - 40 -

As this beneficiary assessment is based on limited knowledge of the Project and was carried out within a tight
timeframe, the following recommendations should be read in the light of this. It should be noted that all
recommendations originate from beneficiaries and stakeholders and that several of the recommendations
contained herein were provided by the PIUE and confirmed recommendations received from beneficiaries in the
field.

Recommendations:

i.        Textbook Production:
Textbooks should be written by teachers (and not academics) who have a good knowledge of the national
curriculum and its needs, should be produced on a competitive basis and reviewed by a board of reviewers, and
should be tested on a limited probationary basis to ensure that they are appropriate for the intended audience. After
production, the process of distributing textbooks to PTAs and of PTAs distributing books to pupils should be
closely monitored to ensure that no books intended for rental end up being sold.

ii.       New Teaching Methods:
Supporting material should be provided during training for the new teaching methods. The English book
`Interactive Learning' translated into Tajik by Mirzomahtov Nurullo (PIUE Teacher Training Specialist) or
another similar book should be made available. Training should include role-play to reinforce the learning process
and should be followed up at regular intervals at seminars. Teachers sent for training should be selected
competitively and should always be from project schools.

iii.      Reconstruction: Procurement and Monitoring:
The procurement process should be closely monitored to ensure that contractors responding to tenders represent
construction firms capable of implementing reconstruction work properly and that they have access to a pool of
skilled labor for the work, if selected. The procurement process should also pay close attention to the quality and
price of materials selected to ensure that they are of good quality and fairly priced. It should be noted that simply
collecting three bids is insufficient to ensure value for money as in such a small market firms may collude to force
prices up.

iv.       Reconstruction: Value For Money:
Schools, which have been rehabilitated by other organizations in Tajikistan (for example the Asian Development
Bank, the Aga Khan Foundation, the Mountain Societies Development Support Program or Mercy Corps), should
be visited to see what level of rehabilitation is possible for what investment. These site-visits should provide a
benchmark against which to measure rehabilitation work carried out by the second project. This is crucial to avoid
the criticisms now being heard, namely that the investments in rehabilitation offer very bad value for money, that
very little was accomplished for the relatively large investments and finally, that the reconstruction work carried
out was `very bad quality'.

v.        Monitoring:
Monitoring for the entire project and particularly for the procurement and rehabilitation process should be
extremely stringent and the possibility of it being carried out in association with NGOs doing similar work should
be considered. Several individuals interviewed mentioned that the more levels of administration there were
involved in the Project, the greater the potential for `leakage' of project funds. As such the cash-flow structure
should be closely monitored and be as simple as possible to ensure that fund flows are easily traceable. A full-time
Tajik monitoring team should be in place and should be carrying out regular site-visits and checking the
procurement quotes regarding costs of materials. This team should be supervised by an expatriate employee of the
World Bank to ensure that no Tajik national is subjected to the undue pressure, which could accompany such a
post, not to reveal any misuse of funds or other similar activities.

vi.       PTAs:
PTAs should be provided with supporting literature and training seminars incorporating PTA members from
several schools and areas as this would provide an ideal opportunity for the networking and links between PTAs,
which several schools suggested. PTAs should be given supervision regarding the use of the small grants, which


                                                         - 41 -

will be provided in the second project, including instruction in how to submit basic proposals regarding why they
are requesting a grant and what they will use it for, including measurable performance indicators.

As the Deputy Minister for Education responsible for Economic Affairs and the Head of the PIUE, noted, there
were several problems in the implementation of the Education Reform Project, however it is hoped that if lessons
learnt from the first project and the proposed recommendations contained herein are applied, it will be possible to
ensure that the second project, the Education Modernization Project, can contribute more fully to the education
future generations in Tajikistan.




                                                         - 42 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

                                 Summary of Stakeholder Workshop Discussions

A Stakeholder Workshop was convened in Dushanbe on October 24, 2003 to review the draft Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) [including the Beneficiary Assessment report] for the Tajikistan Education Reform
Project (the Project) which closed on September 30, 2003. Participants included high level officials from the
Ministry of Education (MOE), President's Office, district level education officers, representatives from schools,
various government institutions, PIU--Education staff, donor agencies and NGOs, and World Bank staff and
consultants.

Mr. Boboev, the Deputy Minister of Education made introductory remarks and welcomed the participants. He
affirmed continued commitment to education reforms of the President and the Government of Tajikistan. He
highlighted some of the positive elements of the Education Reform Project (ERP)--publishing of textbooks,
training children and adults to play a role in a democratic society, rehabilitation of physical infrastructure of
schools, student assessment to test the knowledge of children, and training for MOE and district level staff. On the
subject of teacher training, he said the Project achieved its objective of training teachers. He said that he was,
however, not convinced that teachers' mentality about their work had changed enough and emphasized the
importance of assessing the impact of teacher training. He said that, overall, the Project had worked well, and that
good results had been achieved, but that these efforts were only the beginning and that much more needs to be
done.

Mr. Michael Mills (Principal Economist, World Bank) explained the Bank's formal implementation completion
assessment process, and outlined the important characteristics of an intensive ICR which is now being carried out
for the ERP. He stressed the importance of the Stakeholder Workshop discussions for completing the formal
report, and urged participants to engage in a candid exchange of views.

Ms. Shobhana Sosale (Task Manager for the ICR, World Bank) made an extensive presentation of the context in
which the ERP was developed, the decisions for project design, the preparation of the components and project
costing, the initial ratings of the ICR and explanations of the suggested ratings, and the lessons learned. She
explained the principal performance ratings for World Bank ICRs (attached table), and indicated that the 3 main
components, 4 sub-components, and 13 activities of the ERP had been rated as `satisfactory.' She highlighted two
activities of the Project which had been rated as unsatisfactory: student assessment and the activity on setting up
efficient project management through an education management information system (EMIS), and requested
workshop participants to provide their assessment of these activities in particular.


                                      Table. Principal Performance Ratings


                                  Project Outcome,
                                 Bank performance,                                              Institutional
          Ranking              Borrower performance,             Sustainability                Development
                                   Quality at Entry

               1                  Highly satisfactory             Highly likely                    High
            (Best)                       (HS)                          (HL)                          (H)
               2                      Satisfactory                    Likely                    Substantial
                                          (S)                           (L)                         (S)
               3                     Unsatisfactory                  Unlikely                     Modest
                                          (U)                          (UN)                        (M)
               4                 Highly unsatisfactory           Highly unlikely                 Negligible
           (Worst)                       (HU)                         (HUN)                          (N)




                                                       - 43 -

Mr. Farroukh Khamraliev (Director, Project Implementation Unit for Education) reinforced evidence in support of
the suggested ICR mission ratings, and indicated that the ICR findings and the ratings were comprehensive and
accurate in all but one area. He requested the meeting to note that at least a rudimentary student assessment
system had been developed; and that even though it required further work, the merits of setting up the system
should be taken into account. He argued for the student assessment activity to be rated as at least moderately
satisfactory, considering the total absence of a national level assessment system prior to project implementation.
He pointed out that students who had benefited from the ERP, when tested in mathematics, reading and civics,
showed improvement in their achievement scores as compared to students who had not benefited from the Project's
activities. He then highlighted some of the other Project achievements: institutional capacity building (especially
for the PIU), publishing and distribution of textbooks, and the establishment of Parent-Teacher Associations
(PTAs). He indicated that the Project activities which had not achieved the best results were those that had
received limited financing and technical assistance--EMIS for example.

Lessons Learned

The discussion of lessons learned from the Project offered a good exchange of ideas and introduced valuable
insights.   Workshop participants were requested to offer their views on each project component from four
perspectives: (i) whether or not they agreed with the main conclusions in the draft implementation completion
report; (ii) whether they thought the judgment of the ratings were fair or not; (iii) whether the specific project
lessons outlined were the right ones or could something more be added; and (iv) whether there were particular
comments on the text of the draft ICR. The summary of the discussion is outlined below.

Participants agreed that the ERP had helped to set up a foundation for the future. They were unanimous in their
views that the draft ICR was comprehensive and provided a balanced, realistic and objective assessment of the
Project's achievements. They agreed that the ratings for all the components as `satisfactory' or as in some cases
`moderately/marginally satisfactory' were fair, except the `student assessment' activity under the first component
on Capacity Building which was rated as `unsatisfactory'. There was also a lively discussion on various aspects
relating to teacher training, textbook development and distribution, and the PTAs.

Component (A) Capacity Building

Sub-component #1. Teacher training.         Although the Project had achieved its objective of training teachers,
participants noted that trained teachers were not prepared to implement their training, and that many forgot to
apply their training to their everyday work. It was agreed that some school teachers had tried their best to utilize
their knowledge, but with varying degrees of success.             Some younger grade students in particular had
acknowledged that their teachers were using a different teaching methodology which they liked and found to be
helpful. Lack of teaching materials was highlighted as an issue. Workshop participants agreed that certificates
alone are not sufficient to induce teachers to apply their training to classroom teaching, and that packages of audio
materials and other take home materials are needed to follow-up on their training. Furthermore, there was
consensus that the mechanism to select teachers to receive training should be improved; and that in order to do
this, a better working relationship needs to be created between MOE and the PIU, and that the Teacher Training
Center at the central level should coordinate with raion level administrators in planning and carrying out teacher
training activities.

Sub-component #2. Management training. There were no specific issues raised within this category. It was
generally agreed that the rating of `satisfactory' was a fair assessment.

Sub-component #3. Student Assessment.           The conclusion of the discussion was that the assessment of
`unsatisfactory' needs to be reviewed and changed to at least `moderately/marginally satisfactory.' Every system
has to begin somewhere. In setting up a rudimentary student assessment system, the first step has been taken.
This must be acknowledged for its merits rather than what more needs to be done. It is important to note the link
between assessments, curriculum and methods of teaching, and the problems associated with designing the



                                                         - 44 -

questions to assess student achievement, not just in analyzing the results. In addition, the main indicators to
characterize the knowledge of pupils should be clearly specified. However, the volume of funding and technical
assistance provided for student assessment in the ERP should have been increased significantly.

Component (B) Improving educational assets/materials

Sub-component #1. Refurbishment and equipment. Workshop participants disagreed that the rating for this should
be downgraded from `moderately/marginally satisfactory' to `unsatisfactory.'        They stressed that one should
analyze the rating from the standpoint of the state of disrepair of the schools before the Project was implemented,
compared with after the schools had been refurbished and equipped. They were unanimous that the rating should
in fact be upgraded to at `satisfactory.' The PIU indicated that the expectations of schools with respect to
rehabilitation was somewhat higher than what could have been delivered given the time and resources of the
Project. The Bank team explained that after weighing the feedback from the Beneficiary Assessment, the rating for
this sub-component would be retained as `moderately/marginally satisfactory.'          It was agreed that stringent
judicial/legal measures needed to be instituted against contractors who do not deliver on time, or who do so using
poor quality materials.

Sub-component #2. Textbooks. Participants agreed that the activity was a success. It was pointed out that
beneficiaries had signaled that the rent for the textbooks were too high for many families, Ministry officials,
however, indicated that the rental amount of the textbooks could not be reduced. They explained that the textbook
rental scheme would become unsustainable if the level of resources is not maintained. The PIU indicated that the
revolving fund for textbooks was steadily building up resources for publishing textbooks. There was consensus that
textbooks were generally of good quality, but that particular care should be taken in future to avoid grammatical
errors in the books. When the issue of stockpiling was brought up, the PIU explained that the only textbooks that
were still in the warehouse were the ones that were printed in-country and that were beyond the curriculum in
mathematics and history. MOE officials were emphatic that this issue would not arise in the future.

Component (C) Project Management

Sub-component #1. Setting up efficient project management through Education Management Information System
(EMIS). Workshop participants agreed that this sub-component did not achieve its objectives and that the rating of
`unsatisfactory' was a fair judgment. MOE officials indicated that a Center for Coordination, Management and
Analysis is under consideration and likely to be set up, and that this Center should be responsible for all aspects to
do with EMIS establishment and maintenance.

The Deputy Minister requested that the Education Modernization Project should put more stress on public
relations, and use mass media to provide information about the aims and achievements of the newly effective
project. This approach, he explained, would be helpful to disseminate information to all parties.

Rating for Project Sustainability

Workshop     participants  were    unanimous     that  the  Project    was unsustainable     in   the  medium-      to
long-term--sustainability being defined as the ability of the Government budget to absorb the recurrent costs of
maintaining the rehabilitated schools, continued provision of in-service training and professional development
opportunities for teachers, setting up pre-service training for teachers, production and distribution of textbooks,
refining the student assessment system, setting up an EMIS to inform decision-making, providing management
training, and monitoring the access and quality aspects of the basic education sub-sector. This points to the urgent
need for reforms and restructuring of the education financing system.

For the future, the textbooks revolving fund and the income generating activities of the PTAs are considered to be
key elements towards helping schools to sustain Project activities.        Participants were unanimous that these
activities should be continued in future projects.




                                                        - 45 -

Additional Annex 10. Borrower's Contribution

                                                      The information
                                       on Education Reform Project Realization
                                                 as on November 1, 2002

With the purposes of Education Reform maintenance and stable base formation promoting education development
in Tajikistan, the Ministry of Education of Republic of Tajikistan and International Development Association
(IDA)    have developed the Education Reform Project.               The agreement between Government of Republic of
Tajikistan and IDA about the beginning of Education Reform Project financing was achieved in May, 1999 and on
June 3, 1999 the Credit Agreement between Government of Republic of Tajikistan and IDA was signed. For
Education Reform Project realization by           the decision of Government of Republic of Tajikistan the Project
Implementation Unit of the credit in education was formed on June 4, 1999. The Education Reform Project was
financed by Government of Republic of Tajikistan and International Development Association. The share of
Government of Republic of Tajikistan is 500,000 US dollars, and the share of IDA is 3,700,000 SDR what is
equivalent to 5,000,000 US dollars. The credit IDA was submitted to Republic of Tajikistan within forty years and
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable since 2009 till
2039. Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2019, shall be one percent (1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount. The
Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of three fourths of one percent (3/4 from 1 %) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.

The Education Reform Project consists of three components:

A.        CAPACITY BUILDING
1) Training
-         teacher re-training;
-         students assessment;
-         parents and teachers associations of the pilot schools

2) Management training
-         Ministry of education;
-         Pilot rayon Ed. Administration;
-         Pilot school Administration .

B.        IMPROVING EDUCATIONAL ASSETS / MATERIALS
1) Refurbishment and equipment
-          Pilot schools: Civil works and equipment;
-          MOE: Equipment;
-          Teacher training centers/Teacher retraining institute: equipment.

2) Textbooks
-         Printing of 18 titles;
-         Rental system and revolving fund;
-         Textbook Distribution.

C.        PROJECT MANAGEMENT
-         Setting up efficient project management
-         Monitoring and evaluation
-         Audit



COMPONENT " CAPACITY BUILDING "

With the realization purposes of a component " Capacity building " the means of the IDA credit and Swiss grant
in a total sum 268,280.00 US dollars are taken.



                                                             - 46 -

Teacher re-training:

Teachers  trainers (20 persons) were selected on the competitive basis, and then by the international consultants
assistance their official duties were prepared. The teacher- trainers selection process passed in three rounds, and
only young, independent and ready to innovations teachers were selected. All 20 teachers - trainers, 2 officials of
Dushanbe      and Leninskiy district Teacher training centers, 2 officials of Teacher retraining institute at a
four-week seminar (from January 24 till February 17) have passed courses of active teaching methods. 20 of them
had an educational trips to the various countries (Kyrgyzstan, Lithuania, ldova and Karachi educational centre of
Aga-khan Foundation) to learn the international practice on active teaching methods. In each pilot school the
teachers - trainers with the purposes of active teaching methods distribution among other teachers of pilot
schools were nominated. According to the re-training plan from September, 2000 the pilot school teachers have
begun to use active teaching techniques. These methods are not included in the working educational plans because
of the absence of new educational programs and methodical instructions on use of these methods. It is necessary to
take into attention the curriculum concept and on the basis of this concept to develop school (subject) curriculum.
Taking into account the methodical manuals shortage on active teaching methods under the PIU initiative the
manual "Interactive learning" was translated from English and was given to all teachers - trainers of pilot
schools. According to the objectives and tasks of a teacher re-training component in pilot schools 1031 teachers
had passed active teaching courses( 548 of them were from Leninskiy district schools). The main positive result of
teacher re-training was that teachers have found access to training productivity.

Student knowledge assessment:

Students knowledge assessment was carried out on three basic categories:           mathematics, including algebra,
geometry, plotting; reading, including native language, literature and history; civil law, including ethics, natural
history, road movement rules etc. With this subcomponent realization purposes the local and international
consultants for questionnaires drawing up were selected. More than 500 questions on the above-stated categories
were made. After processing the best questions were chosen and then the appropriate tests were prepared. The
basic purpose of test realization was the definition of     training positive moments and its disadvantages, its
conformity to programs etc. In May, 2000 in 4 pilot schools (2 in Leniskiy district and 2 in Dushanbe) the test
approbation was carried out. The 4-th grade students of pilot schools were tested in May and September, 2000.
The next student testing in 20 pilot schools and 10 non-pilot schools was carried out in May, 2001. The testing
was carried out using two types of tests: constructive response and multiple-choice.
Testing covered:
-         2376 4-th grade students (120 classes);
-         1880 students (92 classes) with the Tajik study language;
-         496 students (28 classes) with the Uzbek study language.
By test results which have been carried out in September, 2001 89,54 % of students have received a satisfactory
assessment. Last testing was carried out in May, 2002, where 2534 4-th grade students participated. The
interrogation of 124 class chiefs of 4-th grades and 30 school directors was simultaneously carried out. Scores
criteria were determined according to the educational program, and also other countries experience was used. The
results of two years student assessments have shown that there is noticeable difference between pilot and non-pilot
schools. The main reason for this situation is: educational departments proposed        best non-pilot schools for
comparison and, certainly, the comparison assessment was not objective.
Today we can surely say that one of effective student knowledge assessment methods has passed its approbation.
According to the testing results carried out during Project implementation it is possible to make a conclusion that
the tendency of student knowledge level change in pilot schools is observed. These changes depend on some
factors: teacher qualification, the active teaching methods development etc. It is necessary to note that Dushanbe
students knowledge level is a little bit above than the same level in Leninskiy district schools. The students
knowledge assessment results of pilot and non-pilot schools of Dushanbe city and Leninskiy district are given
below:

Student knowledge assessment results according to carried out testing in pilot schools in academic years
1999-2000, 2000-2001 and 2001-2002


                                                       - 47 -

                                                                       Increasing of student Increasing of student
                                                                        knowledge level in    knowledge level in
                       1999-2000       2000-2001        2001-2002      2001-2002 academic    2001-2002 academic
  No.        School   academic year, academic year, %  academic year,   year in comparison  year in comparison with
             number        %                                %            with 1999-2000      2000-2001 academic
                                                                        academic year, %            year, %
   1            1         14,4            11,37           25,22               78,96                 175,14
   2            2         10,9            18,14            9,88               166,42                 90,64
   3            8         11,7            2,83            16,65               24,19                 142,31
   4           11         6,74            7,56            12,59               112,17                186,80
   5           18        11,68            12,17           14,73               104,20                126,11
   6           24         9,72            3,37             1,84               34,67                  18,93
   7           39         8,63            11,43           18,16               132,44                210,43
   8           43         9,32            9,81             9,15               105,26                 98,18
   9           44        13,85            14,61           28,54               105,49                206,06
   10          45        12,98            13,67           12,66               105,32                 97,53
   11          62         9,44            10,76           11,61               113,98                122,99
   12          67         8,43            10,55           14,99               125,15                177,82
   13          111       17,93            23,74           46,46               132,40                259,12
   14          189       17,25            16,17           17,49               93,74                 101,39
   15          197        8,89            9,38            18,53               105,51                208,44
  Total in Leninskiy     11,22            12,19           17,23               108,65                153,57
       district


   16          33         9,43            15,66           14,82               166,07                157,16
   17          82        21,68            21,97           28,36               101,34                130,81
   18          88        25,32            19,24           26,15               75,99                 103,28
   19          93        16,86            15,14           19,69               89,80                 116,79
   20          94        17,02            15,5            19,93               91,07                 117,10
  Total in Dushanbe      18,26            17,58           21,79               96,28                 119,33
      TOTAL              13,07            13,55           19,51               103,67                149,27


Student knowledge assessment results according to carried out testing in non-pilot schools in academic years
1999-2000, 2000-2001 and 2001-2002.

                                                                       Increasing of student Increasing of student
                                                                        knowledge level in    knowledge level in
                       1999-2000       2000-2001        2001-2002      2001-2002 academic    2001-2002 academic
  No.        School   academic year, academic year, %  academic year,   year in comparison  year in comparison with
             number        %                                %            with 1999-2000      2000-2001 academic
                                                                        academic year, %            year, %
   1            6         8,95            9,08             17,3               101,45                193,30
   2           19         7,94            8,38             6,29               105,54                 79,22
   3           49        15,86            13,45           22,07               84,80                 139,16
   4           53         8,04            9,29            14,48               115,55                180,10
   5           80        18,05            17,01           15,56               94,24                  86,20
   6           200       13,27            14,72           22,26               110,93                167,75
   7           207        6,41            9,57            15,03               149,30                234,48
  Total in Leninskiy     11,25            11,74           16,14               104,36                143,47
       district


   8           25        26,28            15,78           18,84               60,05                  71,69
   9           37         6,24            24,14           16,67               386,86                267,15
   10          91        14,61            31,96           25,08               218,75                171,66
  Total in Dushanbe      11,25            11,74            20,2               104,36                179,56
      TOTAL              11,25            11,74           18,17               104,36                161,51




                                                        - 48 -

Parents and teachers associations (PTA) and School Development Plans:

In all 20 pilot schools the Parents and teachers associations (PTA) were formed which then were registered in the
Ministry of justice of Republic of Tajikistan as public not governmental organizations. The Parents and teachers
associations have developed and have ratified on general meetings the basic document "the School Development
plan". The school development plan reflects the basic activity of PTA in pilot schools, including school
rehabilitation and school equipment, teacher retraining , student knowledge assessment, rental system introduction
of textbook distribution and textbook revolving fund formation, conducting business activity etc. Each association
has established its bank accounts for conducting business activity at school and accumulation of textbook rental
system means. The associations have developed the business - plans on conducting business activity, which are
considered and approved by a business-plan acceptance commission. The business in pilot schools is carried out
on the following basic kinds of activities: sewing manufacture; stationery trade; animal husbandry; joinery; the
sports program; a part-time farm organization; cookery. Within the given component realization framework not
less than once per month in pilot schools the seminars and explanatory meetings on introduction and realization
of the school development plans were carried out. On results of business  plans realization monitoring in pilot
schools we can say that some of them have achieved successes. For example, school No.8, a boarding school
No.197 of Leninskiy district could purposefully turnover their means and receive the certain income. As a whole,
pilot schools' business activity (the average income) looks thus: school No.2 - $ 8.33, school, No.8 - $ 103.75,
school of No.11- $ 2.25, school No.18 - $ 15.08, school No.24 - $ 15.08, school No.39 - $ 56.67, school No.43 - $
18.04, school No.44 - $ 19.17, school No.45 - $ 3.92, school No.62 - $ 14.58, school No.67 - $ 12.50, school
No.189 - $ 12.50, school No.197 - $ 14.39, Boarding school - $ 10, school No.33 - 0, school No.82 - 0, school
No.88 - $ 4.26, school No.93 - 0, school No. 94 - $ 5.

The competition on best PTA among pilot schools was carried out and the best PTA were determined. From the
business activity income in pilot schools 73 teachers were encouraged for the vigorous activity on active teaching
methods application. For example, school  62, 1, 8,197 of Leninskiy district encouraged for good work their
teachers with money compensation. For the           PTA Administration of pilot schools of Leninskiy district PIU
together with Counterpart Consortium        four seminars on the following topics were arranged: " NGO and
Community ", " NGO Management ", " Fundraising - attraction of means " and "Small business development".
The similar seminars will be arranged in Dushanbe. Also the PTA bookkeepers training on " Accounting bases"
was arranged and on end of it certificates were handed.

Management training:

Educational tour for PIU staff and Educational department of Leninskiy district in October, 1999 was organized.
The purpose of trip: study of a book publishing condition and textbook distribution rental system in Armenia.
Group structure: the Head of the educational department of Leninskiy district; the PIU director; the PIU textbook
expert. In March, 2000 the educational trip for the educational officials to Sweden, England, Scotland and
Holland was organized. The purpose of trip: acquaintance with educational system of the specified countries.
Group structure: deputy minister of Education; the head of Dushanbe educational department; PIU Director; PIU
community expert. The seminar on a theme: "State education reform policy " was held in Stockholm. Seminar
participants were: main expert of a Science and Education Department of the Executive Department of the
President of Republic of Tajikistan; deputy minister on Education; the head of School department of Ministry of
education; the head of planning and economic department of Ministry of education; the head of Dushanbe
Educational department; the PIU director. Two heads of educational departments participated in educational trip to
Sweden and Armenia.

For the school directors and deputy directors management seminars were arranged. The seminars have passed in
two stages. The first stage was carried out by the international consultants from Armenia under a management of
Karine Aratyunyan. The topic of the seminar was: " School director - leader ". The important result of a seminar
was that fact, that the school directors could distinguish qualities of the leader and what not always school director
can become a leader. The second stage also was arranged for the directors and deputy directors of pilot schools.
The topic of the given seminar was: " School director - manager ". The purpose of a seminar was to familiarize the
seminar participants with managerial work bases in market economy conditions. The seminar result was the fact


                                                        - 49 -

that the school directors together with other staff have developed the School Development Plan (SDP).

COMPONENT : " IMPROVING EDUCATIONAL ASSETS "

With the purposes of realization of a component " Improving educational assets " the means of the credit IDA and
contribution of Government of Republic of Tajikistan in a total sum 3,548,579.00 US dollars are allocated.

Civil works:

Within the given component framework            together with Parents and teachers associations and pilot schools
management the basic works (roof repair, heating, water supply, glazing, toilets repair and finishing works) were
determined, on the basis of which the Work performance volumes and school repair estimates are prepared.
According to the World Bank procedures the national competitive biddings on contractor selection for pilot
school rehabilitation of Leninskiy district and Dushanbe city are carried out. Now 2 urban objects - pilot schools
82 and 94 are under rehabilitation, their commissions are planned to be in the beginning of the next year before
Project completion.       From the Education Reform Project beginning      23 educational establishments ( 17 in
Leninskiy district and 6 in Dushanbe city) were rehabilitated and commissioned.

  Number                      Object                   Works         Works completion             Object location
                                                     beginning
   Leninskiy district
      1.        Secondary school No.1                October 1999       August 2000      Somoniyon s., Borbad st,2
      2.        Secondary school No.2                August 2001        February 2002    Somoniyon s., Lenin st.
      3.        Secondary school No.8                 May 2000          October 2001     Somoniyon s., Stahanov dale
      4.        Secondary school No.11               October 2000         July 2001      Laur j., Galahona s.
      5.        Secondary school No.18                May 2000           April 2002      Komsomol dale
      6.        Secondary school No.24                July 2001         August 2002      Sultanabad j., Burma s.
      7.        Secondary school No.39                 May 2000        February 2001     Koktash j., Komarova s.
      8.        Secondary school No.43               August 2001        August 2002      40 years of Tajikistan
                                                                                         j.,Mahmadshoi Bolo s.
      9.        Secondary school No.44                May 2000          February 2001    Chimteppa s.
     10.        Secondary school No.45               August 2001         April 2002      Sarikishtii Poyon dale
     11.        Secondary school No.62               January 2000      November 2000     Jiubodom s.,Chorteppa s.
     12.        Secondary school No.67                May 2000          August 2001      Ispechak j., Choryakoron s.
     13.        Secondary school No.189               May 2000           April 2001      Somoniyon s., Lenin st16
     14.        Secondary school No.197             February 2000      November 2000     Selhoztehnika s.
     15.        Boarding school                       May 2000          February 2001    Zaibobod j., Korgar dale
     16.        Educational center and DED           January 2000      December 2000     Somoniyon s., Somoniyon st.
                (District Educational Department)

 Dushanbe
      1.        Secondary school No.33               January 2000       February 2001    Kalinina s.
      2.        Secondary school No.82                 July 2002         March 2003      Gissarskaya st. 33
      3.        Secondary school No.88               January 2000      November 2000     Gissarskaya s. 73
      4.        Secondary school No.93                 May 2000        November 2001     Ispechak 2, 25
      5.        Secondary school No.94               January 2002       January 2003     Navoi st. 21
      6.        Educational center                   February 2000      August 2000      Tursun-zade st. 8
      7.        Institute of teacher improvement     October 2000        June 2001       Chehova st.15
      8.        Dushanbe Education Department       November 2000        April 2001      Pushkin st.46




                                                         - 50 -

School Equipment:

From a Project realization beginning all 20pilot schools were equipped (students desks and chairs for primary
classes, teacher tables and chairs, blackboards) in the following quantity: desks and chairs for primary classes 
9470 sets , teacher tables and chairs - 540 sets and blackboards - 675 pieces.

                                 Pilot school                       Desks and       Teacher tables
                                                                 chairs for 1-4      and chairs/set    Blackboards/pcs
                                                                    grades/set
   1     Secondary school No.1 of Leninskiy district                   325                56                33
   2     Secondary school No.33 Dushanbe                               705                58                40
   3     Secondary school No.62 of Leninskiy district                  575                51                38
   4     Secondary school No.88 Dushanbe                               750                54                35
   5     Secondary school No.197 of Leninskiy district                 316                51                33
   6     Secondary school No.8 of Leninskiy district                   300                25                22
   7     Secondary school No.18 of Leninskiy district                  360                25                30
   8     Secondary school No.39 of Leninskiy district                  326                25                34
   9     Secondary school No.44 of Leninskiy district                  326                25                31
   10    Secondary school No.67 of Leninskiy district                  410                30                35
   11    Secondary school No.189 of Leninskiy district                 450                40                34
   12    Boarding school of Leninskiy district                         300                30                20
   13    Secondary school No.93 Dushanbe                               900                50                65
   14    Secondary school No.82 Dushanbe                               800                                  45
   15    Secondary school No.94 Dushanbe                               1090                                 60
   16    Secondary school No.2 of Leninskiy district                   300                                  28
   17    Secondary school No.11 of Leninskiy district                  122                20                15
   18    Secondary school No.24 of Leninskiy district                  300                                  17
   19    Secondary school No.43 of Leninskiy district                  520                                  40
   20    Secondary school No.45 of Leninskiy district                  295                                  20
                                    TOTAL                              9470               540               675


It is planned to the next year beginning to deliver additional school equipment to all pilot schools, including the
schools which due to rehabilitation process were not supplied by teacher tables and chairs.

MOE, Teacher training centers/Teacher retraining institute: equipment

With the purposes of Project objectives effective realization in two pilot districts the Teacher training centers were
formed and equipped with modern office equipment, including computers, Xerox, TV sets, video tape recorders,
video cameras, telephones, projectors, flipcharts etc. In addition to this the Teacher training centers were supplied
with office furniture. Appropriate office equipment also was installed in Ministry of Education and in Institute of
teacher improvement. Now Teacher training centers work according to the pilot school teacher re-training plans
on active teaching methods.

The textbook publishing and printing:

The textbook publishing and printing is one of the basic purposes of the Education Reform Project. Within the
given subcomponent framework the publishing and printing of 18 textbooks titles for primary and secondary
schools of the republic were stipulated according to the recommendations of the Ministry of Education of Republic
of Tajikistan. To these objectives achievement according to          the World Bank procedures the international
competitive biddings were carried out and the publishers from different countries participated in them. Within
Education Reform Project realization 18 textbook titles with total circulation of 1,940,000 copies were published
and printed:




                                                         - 51 -

   Number                Textbook title                    Publisher                 Publisher's origin    Circulation
     1        Tajik people history, 8grade                Corporation                   Kazakhstan          100 000
                                                           Atamura
     2       Tajik people history, 5grade                 Corporation                   Kazakhstan          120 000
                                                           Atamura
     3       English language, 10grade                      McMillan                     England            100 000
     4       Tajik language, 5grade                   Corporation Fedorov               Russia            120 000
     5       Tajik language, 2grade                   Corporation Fedorov               Russia            100 000
     6       Religion history, 7grade                 SPC of Deaf community              ajikistan         100 000
     7       Odobnoma, 5-6grades                      Corporation Fedorov               Russia            100 000
     8       Geography, 8grade                        Corporation Fedorov               Russia            100 000
     9       Botany, 5-6grades                        Corporation Fedorov               Russia            140 000
     10       Art and labor, 2grade                     Ofsetcompany                    Russia            120,000
     11       Art and labor, 3grade                     Ofsetcompany                    Russia            120 000
     12      Art and labor, 4grade                       Ofsetcompany                   Russia            120 000
     13      Tajik language, 6grade                      Ofsetcompany                   Russia            100 000
     14      World literature, 10-11grades               Ofsetcompany                   Russia            100 000
     15      Market economy, 9grade                      Ofsetcompany                   Russia            100 000
     16      Tajik people history, 9grade                Ofsetcompany                   Russia            100 000
     17      Nature and natural resources, 10grade       Ofsetcompany                   Russia            100 000
     18      Mathematics, 5 grade                        Ofsetcompany                   Russia            100 000
                               Total                                                                       1,940,000


All 18 textbook titles are distributed among republic regions. By the decision of Board of Ministry of Education of
Republic of Tajikistan "Rule on rental method of textbook using" published by the Education Reform Project was
developed and approved. In some regions (Khatlon region, Sogd region, Garm zone districts and in some areas of
republican subordination where the above-mentioned Rule for a management of work on textbook using rental
system introduction was distributed) explanatory seminars with the school directors and heads of educational
departments were arranged. Under each PTA of all 20 pilot schools the special committees on textbook rental
system and revolving funds are formed. All associations have established in the appropriate bank establishments
special accounts for the means accumulation from textbook using rental system. All 18 textbook titles published
and printed within the Educational and Innovative Project framework are distributed on the basis of textbook
using rental system that is each textbook surrenders in rent (one third of textbook cost) on one academic year.

In cooperation with the international organization (Mercy Corps) the Rendering Assistance Project for
students-orphans and poor students of pilot schools was developed, which was approved and 7000 US dollars were
allocated by this international organization. It has allowed to distribute free-of-charge textbooks to the
students-orphans. With the international consultant assistance the actions on work conditions formation of
publishers and polygraphists of Tajikistan are carried out. The main purpose of these actions is that they could
participate in international biddings and to be the contractors in      subsequent textbooks publishing and printing
according to the World Bank requirements.

COMPONENT " PROJECT MANAGEMENT "

With the purposes of " Project management " component realization IDA credit means, contribution of
Government of Republic of Tajikistan, Japanese grant and Swiss grant in a total sum 1,008,081.00 US dollars are
allocated.

Setting up efficient project management

On a competitive basis the necessary staff for Educational and Innovative Project realization was formed. The
Project Steering Committee was formed which consists of the representatives of Ministry of Education of Republic
of Tajikistan, regional and urban educational departments and urban departments, Teacher training centers. The
computers and office equipment for Ministry of Education of Republic of Tajikistan, regional and urban
educational departments and urban departments, Teacher training centers are acquired. It is planned to connect



                                                        - 52 -

the above-stated objects to a world wide web (the Internet) with the purpose of information reception from various
sources. The database on all pilot and non-pilot schools for a fast and exact information finding is formed. The
PIU of the credit in education has the own edition - newsletter, in which the materials about PIU activity are
published. A set of interesting and useful materials on a theme: "Education - the main resource of a society" was
published in this newsletter. More than 20 articles concerning Educational Reformation Project realization were
published in republic mass media. There is a large volume of analytical material, photo illustrations and video
cassettes prepared by the international and local experts within the PIU-Education realization framework.

Monitoring and evaluation /information system management (ISM):

The following work is done:
-         computerization of all components specifications
-         assistance to student knowledge assessment team in questionnaires development for students, teachers,
          parents, school directors;
-         assistance in data collection on 4-th grade students of 20pilot schools and 10
          non-pilot schools.

On a monthly basis the monitoring and assessment of all project indicators determined according to the Project
Appraisal Document and Operation Manual are carried out.
The basic achievements are the following:
-         teacher re-training;
-         student knowledge assessment;
-         parents and teachers associations of the pilot schools
-           refurbishment and equipment;
-         textbook publishing and printing;
-         textbook rental system and revolving fund;
-         textbooks distribution.

Audit:

The company PriceWaterhouseCoopers (Azerbaijan) is selected for audit examination. Audit examinations of 2000
and 2001 years were carried out. PIU has implemented the necessary actions in accordance with the auditor's
recommendations.

Education Reform Project, which is aimed to modernize system of education, is the important step towards the
reform and the Project implementation course reform, gives the opportunity to make a conclusion that local
authorities have gained some experience. For example:
1.        To develop and execute to carry out educational policy
2.        Understood the necessity of democratization of educational process;
3.        The ability to involve in creative and initiative organizers into Project implementation team;
4.        To be not only the official worker, but to be facilitator. To be able to train, to explain, to clarify, to
          promote the implementation of the ideas
5.        To be the leader.

Thus the Education Reform Project has formed a reliable base for effective education reform continuation in the
country. The Teacher training centers formed in two pilot districts have already independently carried out their
activity. In all pilot schools the Education Reform Project's ideas are under realization. It is pleasant that the
society (community) with understanding concerns to reforms in Education system and assists in their realization.


THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION
OF THE REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN                                                        S. RADJABOV




                                                          - 53 -

- 54 -

