Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCLAL USIE ONLY
Report No. 13590
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1951-UG)
OCTOBER 7, 1994
Public and Private Enterprise Division
Eastern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
BOU                 Bank of Uganda
CSRP                Civil Service Reform Program
CTB                 Central Tender Board
EAU                 Economic Analysis Unit
EFM(P)              Economic and Financial Management (Project)
ERC II              Second Economic Recovery Credit
ERP                 Economic Recovery Program
FIS                 Financial Information Systems
FSAC                Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
MFEP                Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
(formed in April 1993, merging MPED and MOF)
MOF                 Ministry of Finance
MPED                Ministry of Planning and Economic Development
NRM                 National Resistance Movement
PCC                 Project Co-ordination Committee
PCR                 Project Completion Report
SAC I               First Structural Adjustment Credit
TA II               Second Technical Assistance Credit 1434-UG
TA III              Third Technical Assistance Credit 1951-UG
UCS                 Uganda Computer Services
UNDP                United Nations Development Program
USD                 Uganda Supplies Directorate



FOR OFFICIAL USE
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C 20433
U.S. A.
Offrce of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
October 7, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXEClTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Uganda
Third Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1951-UG)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Uganda - Third Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1951-UG)
prepared by the Public and Private Enterprise Division, Eastern Africa Department, with Part II contributed by the
Borrower.
Credit 1951-UG in the amount of SDR 13.8 million (US$18 million equivalent) was approved on August 23,
1988 and closed on May 31, 1994. Its main objective was to provide institutional capacity to implement the
government's Economic Recovery Program in the areas of policy formulation, budget reform, procurement, financial
information, statistics and agricultural planning. This operation followed two previous TA operations and was
followed by the Economic and Financial Management Project (EFMP) to be completed in 1999. UNDP has also
provided technical assistance since 1979. IDA's execution of the UNDP project provided further opportunity for Bank
missions to enhance in-country dialogue and facilitated the development of the EFMP and of the assistance program
of other donors, including the U.K., Netherlands, Austria and Sweden, through cofinancing with the EFMP credit.
This successful partnership among donors is expected to ensure maxinum benefits to the Government of Uganda.
The PCR tells a story of success based upon close supervision, continuity, flexibility, and targeted
interventions in areas closely related to the ongoing reform effort. The lessons of TA II were applied to TA m, and
the lessons from TA m  were applied to EFMP. Supervision and flexibility allowed managers to discontinue and
restructure less successful sub-components and to enhance more successful sub-components. The advisory services
provided to Uganda's Economic Recovery Program and the enhancement of government procurement were especially
successful activities. The Financial Information System, the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit and the Budget
Reform sub-components of TA III were less successful and therefore restructured under EFMP.
Based on the analysis in the PCR, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory and the institutional
development impact as substantial. Sustainability is rated as uncertain because of continuing difficulties to achieve
appropriate public sector salaries. The PCR provided detailed analysis of the achievements and difficulties of most
technical assistance sub-components of the project, but omitted analysis of the agricultural planning sub-component
(US$2.5 million).
An audit is planned. The audit will look at TA HI as an integral part of continuous TA given to the
Government of Uganda over the years and will focus on lessons to be learned from successful coordination among
donors, on supervision and flexibility of project design, and on sustainability issues.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties.
Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT' 1951-UG
CONTENTS
PREFACE   ..............................................  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ..................................  ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ....                                ........  1
A. Project Identity   ...................................   1
B. Introduction and Background  ...........................  1
C. Project Objectives and Description   .... ...................  2
D. Project Design and Organization .........................   2
E. Project Implementation and Results  .......................  3
F. Overall Performance and Institutional Development (Sustainability)  ... 9
G. IDA/Government Performance and Project Relationships ....                   .....  10
H. Summary and Conclusions  ...........................   11
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Background .....................................   13
B. Implementation of the Project ..........................   14
C. Use of Advisors/Consultants Under TA III  .................   15
D. Evaluation of the 3rd IDA Technical Assistance  ..............  16
E. General Conclusion  ................................   17
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION   .......................   18
Summary of Assessment ...............................   18
Related Bank Loans/Credits .............................   20
Project Timetable  ...................................   21
Credit Disbursements .................................   21
Project Implementation ................................   22
Project Costs and Financing .............................   27
Aspects of Implementation and Project Results  .................  28
Status of Covenants ..................................   41
Use of Bank Resources ................................   42
Missions .........................................  43
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
lofficia]duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 1951-UG
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Technical Assistance Project
(TA III), for which Credit 1951-UG in the amount of SDR 13.8 million was approved on August
23, 1988. The credit was closed at the end of May 1994 with complete disbursement, some
nineteen months earlier than the closing date set in the DCA. During the effectiveness period a
total of approximately US$8 million was also made available to the credit beneficiaries through a
UNDP project to provide assistance to the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development and
the successor Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning. This UNDP project was executed by
IDA using for the most part the same management as the IDA Credit.
The PCR (Parts I and HI) was prepared by the task manager, Mr. I. Knapp, of the Public
and Private Enterprise Division; reviewed with the Principal Country Officer for Uganda, Mr. G.
Gebhart and then commented upon by the Borrower (Part ED).
Preparation of the PCR began during a final supervision mission to close off all
administrative matters for the Credit in July 1993, and is based, inter alia, on the President's
Report, the Credit Agreement, supervision reports, and sub project files. While this report
attempts to provide a self contained analysis of the funds used under 1951-UG, (TA III), it should
be recognized that many of the subprojects financed were either started or had their genesis under
the Second Technical Assistance Credit (1434-UG, TA II). Further, some subprojects started
under the Third Technical Assistance project are being continued under the follow-on technical
assistance project-the Economic and Financial Management Project (EFMP). Thus, to ensure a
more complete understanding of the results from this project, this report should be read in
conjunction with the Project Completion Report for Technical Assistance II and the Technical
Annex of the President's Report for the Economic and Financial Management Project.
i






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 1951-UG
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    The Third Technical Assistance Project (TA III) became effective at the time (May 1989),
when uncommitted funds from the Second Technical Assistance Credit (TA II) were
approximately US$1 million. The program areas covered by TA III were complementary to those
begun under TA II, while also reaching new areas in need of improvement within Government.
With continuity of project management on both the Government and IDA sides, TA III was able
to maintain and extend momentum in terms of progress toward overall credit objectives and
specific program areas, which were similar under both projects. On the policy side, TA III was
used to extend the macroeconomic and sector dialogue begun under TA lI and to extend the
overall framework for subsequent project assistance through the lending program.
2.    While the project continued to rely extensively on foreign expatriate assistance, (as had
been the case in TA II) more and more emphasis was laid on training of middle and senior level
civil servants in the core ministries. As the project progressed, fewer short term consultancies
were used as civil servants were better prepared to take on the technical tasks required of them
under both the specific subprojects and more generally, across the target organizations.
3.    The project also continued the process begun under TA II of joint efforts by IDA and
donors in focusing technical assistance within a common framework. With strong leadership from
the central government ministry, (the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development (MPED),
which became the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning in April 1993), technical assistance
continued to be used efficiently in addressing issues of economic policy and in breaking through
specific bottlenecks that confronted Government. Also continued from TA II in this joint effort in
practical partnership with the donors, was the complementary UNDP project at the MPED. The
continued integration of the UNDP funded experts, over a period of seven years, within the
framework of IDA funded subprojects was of great assistance to Government in ensuring
maximum benefits, while also providing Government with independent analysis and support for
their discussions with IDA, the IMF, and at the Consultative Group Meetings in Paris. Not
unimportantly, IDA's execution of the UNDP project provided significantly increased funds for
missions to Uganda that enhanced in-country contact and dialogue.
4.    Many of the lessons learned from TA III and its predecessor TA II have been
incorporated into the major follow-on technical assistance project-the Economic and Financial
Management Project (EFMP)-which was presented to the Board in August 1993. The modality
of expatriate long-term assistance to co-manage major subprojects with senior counterparts has
been widely extended under EFMP whenever new areas of operation are being tackled. However,
in many areas where support was previously provided under TA II and TA III, expatriate
"leadership" has given way to full time Government management, with only limited and part time
support from the former advisors. A further lesson learned under TA II and accounted for under
ii



the flexible execution mode of TA III concerns the success of technical assistance in transferring
skills and building enduring capacities. In the Ugandan context, in comnlon with many other
countries, enduring capacity has been recognized as all too fragile, unless Government is willing
to pay proper attention to the issues of wages/benefits, basic equipment, and recurrent cost
considerations. The successes achieved under TA IH through the use of small incentive payments
for: (i) training, (ii) extra project work, and (iii) performance of specific tasks related to project
work have been widely recognized, (and positively commented upon by independent evaluators
reviewing the UNDP project/program). The extent of these successes is further evidenced by the
fact that Government decided, with IDA's concurrence, to provide its counterpart project
contribution in the form of incentive packages for staff involved in the follow-on technical
assistance project-EFMP. Beyond individuals covered under the EFMP, the question of
satisfactory pay levels for all civil servants is now being taken very seriously by Governmnent.
This effort is being coupled with deep retrenchments in all parts of the Civil Service and the
armed forces. At the time of writing this PCR, retrenchments and efforts to eliminate ghost
employees have achieved genuine recurrent savings in the wage bill of more than US$10 million
per annum, from a total wage bill cost of approximately US$80 million. These funds have been
ploughed back into increased salary levels. (These efforts at Civil Service Reform are now being
supported under the EFMP, and will continue to receive attention under the planned Capacity
Building Project (FY95)).
5.    Another important lesson first drawn from TA ll and strongly reinforced under TA III
was that project design can never be a substitute for good leadership and commitment within
Government. Moreover, the achievement of a commonly shared view of what needs to happen
and how something should be processed and managed requires a considerable amount of time and
face to face contact. New areas of project coverage under TA III, (and then under EFMP),
introduced new Government managers to the difficulties of administering and managing technical
assistance. It also brought into the open differences between senior Government officials on the
use and appropriateness of technical assistance as a vehicle for development. While these
differences and difficulties had little effect upon the performances under TA III, they are now
(January, 1994) exhibiting themselves in the design and use of technical assistance, both at the
sub project and overall credit level. These changes reinforce the view, reiterated by Government,
that experienced supervision, provided in-country and at levels beyond that normally
programmed, will be needed for several years to come to ensure that maximum benefits derive
from the funding provided for technical assistance.
6.    Beyond the specific lessons detailed above, the results achieved under TA III (and TA II)
raise the question as to why these particular credits were (in the main) successful. This is of
relevance as the track record in general for free standing Technical Assistance, across the
continent, has been disappointing. Four specific factors can be identified: (i) the
subprojects/interventions were targeted to areas that were closely coupled to the ongoing reform
efforts; (ii) targeting of interventions kept up with and in some cases was upstream work for the
reform effort, which moved very swiftly by comparison with many other countries; and (iii) the
TA was designed and implemented with the utmost flexibility possible, consistent with the
Development Credit Agreement and (iv) the credit received significantly greater amounts of
supervision, both in the field and from Washington, with greater continuity of personnel than is
normally the case.
iii



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1951-UG)
PART I.      PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
Name                 Third Technical Assistance Project (TA III)
Credit Number         1951-UG
RVP Unit             Africa Region
Country              Uganda
Sector               Public Sector
B.    Introduction and Background
1.    The Third Technical Assistance Project (TA III) was the first technical assistance project
requested by the National Resistance Movement (NRM) Government under President Museveni,
following its rise to power in 1986. Following a preliminary mission in March 1987 the project
was formally appraised in February 1988 and presented to the Board on August 23, 1988. While
the initial thrust of TA III was oriented to provide technical assistance within the framework of
the Economic Recovery Credit I, and the Policy Framework Paper, it was also oriented to further
support initiatives that had been started under Technical Assistance II, particularly in the areas of
Statistical and Agricultural reform. Additionally, the project sought to address some fundamental
areas of institutional weakness that were central to the attainment of policy objectives in relation
to control of the budget, restoration of price stability, and implementation of an appropriate
exchange regime. Further, the project recognized the importance of Government having a
functioning Civil Service. At the time of appraisal there was a significant lack of local expertise,
following the departure of many qualified Civil Servants. Thus a program of repatriation was
designed into the project as part of the underpinning for the entire recovery program.
2.    During the course of implementation of TA III, reform momentum increased significantly,
led primarily by the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development. Many of the activities that
were initiated under the 'Special Advisory Services for the Economic Recovery Programn were
either oriented to preparing the way for agreements on the reform agenda, under ERC II and SAC
I, or were directly linked to the implementation of actions conditioned under these credits.
Additionally, the project was used to provide funding for the development of a successor project,
Economic and Financial Management, thus negating the need for a project preparation facility and
allowing an unusual amount of continuity of personnel and operating procedures.
3.    It should also be noted that TA III was implemented in parallel with the Second Technical
Assistance Project (TA II) for some four years and that to a great extent the distinction between
1



the two projects became blurred, particularly as the Development Credit Agreements for both
credits allowed significant flexibility over the use of funds within a defined common focus of
improving public administration. Moreover, with management on Government and IDA's sides
remaining the same under TA II and TA III, in conjunction with a cohesive country team, and in
terms of its interaction with Government being abnormally high, decision making on the use of
funds and methods for implementation of needed actions was extremely effective.
C.    Project Objectives and Description
4.    The stated objectives of the project were to:
(i)    establish and institutionalize data collection and analysis at the Ministry of Finance
and Bank of Uganda;
(ii)   improve the budgeting process;
(iii)  strengthen the capacity for policy formulation in the Ministry of Finance;
(iv)   rationalize Government's procurement functions; and
(v)    provide implementation capacity to Government, oriented toward attainment of
objectives under the Economic Recovery Program; special attention was to be paid
to returning experienced Ugandans from overseas to Government posts.
5.     To achieve these objectives, the credit of SDR's 13.8 million (equivalent to US$18
million) was to finance high priority activities (i.e., "sub projects") in the following areas:
Financial Information System                  US$4.2 million
Budget Reform                                 US$2.8 million
Rationalization of Government Procurement     US$4.3 million
Advisory Services for ERP                     US$7.1 million
Statistics Rehabilitation                     US$2.1 million
Policy & Planning for Agriculture             US$2.5 million
(* The amounts listed above include Governnents contribution and anticipated cofuiancing for Statistics, for a total value
of US$23million)
D.    Project Design and Organization
6.    The project brief was distributed in March 1987 and the project was appraised in
February 1988, following preparatory missions in June and November of the preceding year. A
Staff Appraisal Report (# 7221-UG) was issued and the project went to the Board on August 23,
1988, with effectiveness being declared in May 1989. TA III followed on directly and overlapped
with TA II [PCR UG-1434, dated May 27, 19931.
7.    The organization for managing and administering the credit built directly upon the
structure and personnel that the NRM Government introduced two years earlier for TA II. The
same ministry (Planning and Economic Development) and the same key personnel (the Permanent
2



Secretary and the Project Coordinator), were the focal points for administration and management.
In addition, each of the major subprojects had a clearly defined manager as the direct interface
with IDA. At the Ministry of Finance, Government appointed i) a Steerhig Committee to oversee
the Financial Information Systems work, led by the Acting Commissioner for the Uganda
Computer Services Center (UCS), and ii) implementation managers for the Budget Reform,
Assistance to the Economic Analysis Unit, and Procurement Rationalization.
8.    As noted in the PCR for TA II, and reflecting the blurring of management processes
between TA II and TA III, the project's Review Committee chaired by the Permanent Secretary
(PS) of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development, operated at arms length (as would
the Board of a private cooperation) and primarily focused on definition and approval of new
project proposals which were formally communicated to IDA in writing under signature of the
PS. Hence successful project implementation, particularly in the earlier years, relied heavily on
supervision activities by the Task Manager and country team members, reinforced by the strong
country dialogue at the technical level of the Ministries.
E.    Project Implementation and Results
9.    From a management and monitoring perspective, for the most part, TA Im was run
successfully. Government quickly learned to utilize the special account system, and while in late
1990 some difficulties were discovered with accurate recording of expenditures, these were
quickly rectified with the movement of special account control from BOU to a commercial bank.
Auditing was satisfactory, and needed accounts were produced without undue difficulty. Financial
reporting and monitoring was greatly helped by the introduction of a "sub project' numbering and
accounting system within the project office. This became necessary as the Bank's Disbursement
Group was unable to continue the practice initiated under TA II, whereby computerized
expenditures against each sub project were made available to Government as part of monthly
statements.
10.   For the most part, problems in implementation that did occur were primarily the result of
internal differences within Government over the use of technical assistance, the role it was playing
in moving forward the policy dialogue, and the use of expatriate assistance. Between late 1990
and mid 1992, these differences were at their height, particularly between the Ministry of
Planning and Economic Development (MPED) and the Ministry of Finance. The differences also
showed themselves most markedly in the implementation progress made under each of the major
subprojects originally agreed for support under the project. Those under the direct control of
Finance lagged significantly behind those controlled through Planning. Moreover, as newer
projects were agreed and initiated under the auspices of MPED, technical assistance became more
interwoven with the internal politics of structural adjustment, with "sides" becoming more
markedly distinguishable. These difficulties were particularly marked in the areas of assistance to
Budget Reform, the Financial Information Systems area, and for parts of the assistance to the
Bank of Uganda. By contrast, the subprojects covering Statistics Rehabilitation, the Agricultural
Secretariat, Assistance to Bank of Uganda (Accounting/External Debt Management), and
Assistance to the Ministry of Public Service were all executed very efficiently and in close
cooperation between MPED, IDA, and the component managers. The level of involvement of
technical assistance (from all sources) in the internal aspects of development in the period
February 1992 through mid 1993 is most easily understood through reference to the press and
magazine coverage of the times.
3



11.   Despite these "differences," all subprojects were completed and for most of them
significant benefits can be attributed to the results achieved. The paragraphs below briefly
describe the major subprojects, organized by sector or ministry. (A full listing of all subprojects,
as taken from the Government's project office and the Task Manager's files, are shown in Table 4
of Part III).
12.   It is worthy of note that implementation under this credit was greatly concerned with
"doing," rather than "planning." As such, very few studies were undertaken, (Table 6 (f)) and
those that were commissioned had extremely clear objectives to be met, in terms of the follow on
action that was likely to result from the details of the study, or the type of decision that was to be
made, based on the study facts and conclusions.
Ministry of Finance
13.   General overview of assistance received. At the time of appraisal, four major subprojects
were planned for implementation under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance: Budget Reform;
Financial Information Systems; Procurement Reform at the Central Tender Board and the Uganda
Supplies Directorate; and set up of the Economic Analysis Unit. Nominally, these subprojects
were all under the control of the Secretary to the Treasury, though management and operations
for signing contracts, agreeing to specific funding requests, invoicing, special account operations,
etc, all integral to the performance of the subprojects, were vested with the project office and the
Permanent Secretary of MPED. To some extent, this split in management in the subprojects was a
factor in the difficulties of achieving the stated objectives. The total value of expenditures on these
four main projects was approximately US$3.9million. Beyond this, another US$0.4million was
spent on a range of other minor activities, for an approximate total of US$4.3million.
14.   Budget reform. The assignment for Budget Reform was awarded to an independent
consultant, originally supervised by IDA's Country Operations Division, as part of the ongoing
dialogue with Government on macroeconomic reforms under ERC II, and the Public Expenditure
Reviews. The consultant faced significant difficulties in completing the task; Government was
often not prepared for his visits, or needed counterparts were absent from the office. Moreover,
there was a general suspicion that the consultant was more an "agent" for IDA and MPED than a
useful part of Government (Ministry of Finance). The original terms of Reference (TOR) were
revised on several occasions as the assignment progressed and the nature of the assignment
became more oriented to assisting with the actual budget preparations of 1989 and 1990 than with
introducing a new budget system. Late in 1991, a final report was prepared, discussed, revised,
and agreed. This report was then taken as the basis for designing a much more ambitious budget
reform project than had originally been foreseen, with initial funding to be provided under the
remaining budget of TA III, and the rest under the EFMP.
15.   Financial information system. Under TA II, Price Waterhouse prepared a detailed
information system study, oriented to the most crucial subsystems needed by Government. TA III
funding was envisaged to implement this study. In fact, delays and difficulties in finalizing the
study prevented full start-up and implementation from taking place under TA III. Recognizing the
critical importance of this operation to Government, IDA agreed to fund a series of small "one-
off" projects and activities that helped sustain the existing systems and equipment, such as they
were, until the larger project could be initiated. The "one-off" actions included funding of rented
back up equipment and an agreement for maintenance; needed supplies; installation of training
4



equipment, drawn from another sub project upon completion of its tasks; hiring of an international
and local expert to provide assistance to the Uganda Computer Services (UCS); provision of a
vehicle; and provision of incentives for staff employed on the Payroll RJform exercise, which was
allied to part of the Civil Service Reform Program. By mid 1993, while TA Im continued to
provide support, the EFMP project for UCS became operational, and the funding under TA m
was concluded with the successful tendering for new equipment and software; the full
development and implementation of the subsystems is now expected to take place under EFMIP.
16.   Procurement. Assistance under six separately approved subprojects (TA-11; TA-27; TA-
45; TA-50; TA-64; and TA-66) totalling US$ 2.5million was provided with the objective of
establishing the newly constituted Uganda Supplies Directorate and integrating its functions with
those of the Central Tender Board (CTB). In one sense, the project was successful: Government
now has a functioning Supplies Directorate capable of sourcing the most frequently procured
items for Government's use. However, after completion of the consulting assignment which
helped the start up of the Supplies Directorate there were difficulties that began to emerge with
awards for technical assistance contracts that had to pass through CTB, which greatly reduced the
benefit of the progress made and may further prevent the fulfillment of the overall objectives for
an efficient, effective, and transparent procurement systems within government's machinery. This
sub project amply demonstrates that regardless of the technical competence of the consultants and
their counterparts, an appropriate political environment is needed for long term sustainability.
17.   Economic Analysis Unit. The Economic Analysis Unit (EAU) was formed as an enclave
organization at the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to help offset the great differences in internal
capacity between MOF and MPED. Initially staffed with recruits from outside Government who
were paid special allowances and salaries, this small group became the driving force within the
Ministry of Finance as they worked directly for the Minister and the Secretary to the Treasury.
Importantly, they maintained close professional and personal relationships with counterparts at
MPED, thus allowing for a form of "bridging" between the two organizations, and greatly
facilitating a more balanced Government approach and response to the issues being discussed
under the macroeconomic policy framework. The assistance provided by IDA included payment
of incentives, financing of purchases of computing equipment, a series of financing of short term
training/course attendances overseas, and general equipment and supplies. With the merger of the
Ministry of Finance with Planning and Economic Development in April 1992, the economic
analysis staff were merged into the restructured Macroeconomic Policy Department.
18.   The importance of the EAU to Government's fiscal and monetary program (and an
indication of the lack of capacity within MOF) can be partly gauged through the unfortunate
events of late 1991, when Government lost control of the money supply and inflation soared to
over 60 percent per annum. This coincided with the (voluntary) departure of the unit head to
become a key Commissioner at the Uganda Revenue Authority; the attendance of his deputy at a
three month computer training course; and lack of IDA supervision missions around this time.
Ministry of Planning and Economic Development
19.   General overview of all assistance received. The design of the Project provided for two
areas over which the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development (MPED) had direct
control-Statistics Rehabilitation, and assistance to the Economic Recovery Program. In reality,
except for the subprojects directly under the supervision of MOF, all other subprojects were
5



either influenced, initiated, supervised, or controlled from MPED. This is not to say that other
credit beneficiaries (e.g. BOU), did not play their appropriate role with regard to the execution of
the subprojects, but the leadership for the strategic direction in which project funds were spent
frequently lay with, and in all cases, was approved by MPED, following discussions with IDA.
20.   Statistics department rehabilitation. Under TA III the statistics department received
US$1.7million directly, and approximately US$0.3million from other donors, within the
framework developed by Government in agreement with IDA. (he project continues to operate
with funding from EFMP). Accomplishments under this sub project have been impressive.
Starting from almost nothing the department now has trained statisticians, strong data collection
techniques and staff and an efficient departmental computing capability. As of May 1994, the co-
director moved from this position to be the advisor, and management reverted to complete
Ugandan control. Government statistics, (abstracts) are now available on a monthly basis covering
a wide variety of economic indicators. Technically the department is quite capable of continuing
to collect and disseminate information on the economy; long term sustainability will depend to a
large degree on Government's ability to ensure appropriate funding for recurrent costs of
operation.
Assistance to the Economic Recovery Program (managed by MPED)
21.   Approach and management of assistance. The SAR provided a category of expenditure
labeled "Special Advisory Services for the Economic Recovery Program" (ERP), with a value of
US$7.1 million. In the event, and depending to some extent on the classification used, some
US$9.9million was spent in this area. The SAR indicated three areas to be assisted under this
category: the Economic Analysis Unit; returning expatriate Ugandans; and short term consultants
to assist in "... monitoring economic performance and advise on adjustments in economic policy."
T'he modality for accessing the funds is laid out in the DCA as "Part D" of the project and states
simply that "all proposals supported by the Review Committee shall be submitted to the
Association for its review and final approval."
22.   This simple, straightforward procedure for requisitioning funds proved to be of great
assistance to the dialogue between IDA and Government. When problems arose, the parties
frequently agreed to the use of this "fund' to hire experts to review the area under discussion,
make proposals, or to implement agreements. Moreover, the fund was also used as a way of
attracting and "co-opting" donor money. If a donor wanted to support a particular activity with
which IDA agreed, yet the donor procedures were too slow to accommodate the situation, the
Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Planning, in full consultation with all parties,
would use the IDA funds. Later, the donor would fund something that IDA and Government felt
should be done, that fell within the donor program, and could be accommodated within the
needed time scales. Thus, flexibility, speed, and cooperation were the main characteristics of the
use of funds. Nevertheless, as has been pointed out, this "style" also entails risks. The paragraphs
below provide a review of the main areas assisted under this SAR category that are not elsewhere
described.
23.   Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. The Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
received approximately US$1.2 million over a three year period. The original objective of
Government, strongly supported by IDA, was to create an "enclave" unit, attached to the MPED
6



that would develop and institutionalize, in line ministries, within the planning unit function, a
monitoring and evaluation mechanism covering the seventy or so most important projects in the
Economic Recovery Program. The sub project was slow to develop, and it was a year before all
staff were on board, housed appropriately, and with the necessary office accommodation and
equipment. In the following two years, the unit developed a database on key projects by collecting
and distributing information. However, the style of management employed and the unsuitability of
the modality used to employ the unithead, presented a number of obstacles to efficient and
effective supervision. The difficulties were such that the supervising agency (UNDP-OPS)
informed Government that if the project were extended they would only continue their role if
significant changes in management personnel and the modality for implementation were made
(e.g. all personnel, project funds, and implementation plans were presented to one agency for
proper coordination). At the end of three years, following discussions between the parties, the
unit head's contract was not renewed. Government and IDA agreed that future funding would be
allocated based upon the results of a review of the past three years and a reorganization of the
unit as an integral part of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning. The unit's equipment
has been transferred to other sub project usage in the ministry. At the time of writing this PCR
the needed review has been completed, and the future funding for this important activity will be
integrated within the total assistance to the newly reorganized ministry, under EFMP.
24.   Bank of Uganda. Assistance to the Bank of Uganda was in two major parts. First, for
improving the internal computing and financial controls, including updating the accounts of the
BOU, which had not been done for five years; and second, in the area of debt management and
strategy development.
25.   Coopers and Lybrand were employed to work with BOU's accounting department to sort
out what the Governor described as "an appalling mess." Many detailed procedural improvements
were made to the accounting department, and these in turn were tied to improvements in
computerized recording of financial transactions. Computer Solutions, a training and development
organization, was employed to assist the MIS department. Also, as part of the upgrading of
operations and personnel, several young internationally qualified Ugandans were recruited under
the "returning expatriate" scheme to strengthen accounts, and a new head of MIS was contracted.
26.   With the objective of improving donor disbursements, functioning of the Open General
Licensing, and debt management, three companies were utilized-CSL, Syviton, and S.G.
Warburg, respectively. Details of major assignments and consultants performance are provided in
Table 7 (G).
27.   The results achieved from the assistance to BOU were considered to be above average,
though there is still work to be done under EFMP and the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
(FSAC). In three years, BOU reorganized all the major functions; produced the first set of
accounts for five years; completed a detailed inventory of debt; and began implementation of a
debt strategy, including the successful completion of a buy back operation; strengthened its
accounting and computing departments immeasurably; upgraded the supervision capabilities; and
improved outputs from the research department. At the same time, under the macro-economic
framework, legalized foreign exchange bureaus were introduced, and a weekly auction system for
foreign exchange was initiated. (All of this was done with only three long-term resident advisors
who were more concerned with departmental/ operational matters than with policy
considerations). Although the changes represent only the beginning of what needs to be done, they
7



clearly indicate the potential for technical assistance that is well thought out, properly managed
and supervised, and where the consultants maintain close communications with IDA and
Government so that there is enhanced co-ordination between the project and macroeconomic
setting.
28.   Returning Ugandans. This sub project evolved into one of the most successful under TA
III, with extremely well qualified expatriate Ugandans being assisted to return. At the time of the
final completion of this PCR (May 1994), 40 'returned' Ugandans were employed within the
country (see Table 7A). Despite the numerical indicators of success, the program was not without
difficulty. To some degree, the program was open to abuse in that it tended to cater more to
individual needs, rather than to Government needs. Under strict management, the process might
have been to conduct a review of what positions needed filling, and then recruit people for them.
In reality, on many occasions, very well qualified people used a number of formal and informal
channels to present their credentials, and appropriate jobs were found within Government., IDA
exercised some degree of control in that the positions that were filled were all related to the
central dialogue and/or covered areas where projects were being implemented and no position was
filled without review by IDA and concurrence as to the candidates' qualifications and experience.
29.    Training. Training under TA III was extensive, and helped to build up skills in a number
of areas. The most easily understood aspects are those where IDA formally approved expenditure
for local or foreign training. The overview shows that 63 people attended courses overseas, for a
total of 100 plus months; a further 150 people attended domestically funded courses. The funding
utilized was US$809,000. A detailed breakdown of personnel, and courses is shown in Table 7B.
The training programs and the results achieved suffered from a lack of consistency and criteria. It
is commonly understood, though not often discussed, that training is frequently used and seen as a
"reward" for good performance, particularly in settings like Uganda where base salaries are very
low, and overseas per diems, by contrast, are extremely attractive. TA III did not manage to
overcome this difficulty. That is not to say that the wrong people were sent/accepted for training,
or that they did not learn things of value. Rather, the relationship between the course attended,
the timing of the course, and a person's position was sometimes tenuous; moreover, and perhaps
more importantly, the way that people were selected for training lacked a preferred level of
advance planning and transparency. These difficulties are being resolved under the follow on
project, with the use of yearly training programs and a formal training committee.
30.   Ministry of Public Service. The Ministry received approximately US$1.6million of
assistance from the project, which with prior assistance received under TA II, resulted in
approximately US$3.Omillion of total assistance over a period of 6 years. (This assistance has
been further extended under the EFMP by US$2 million).
31.   As recorded in the PCR for TA II, in 1989 Government decided to close out the then
existing implementing arrangement, change the Chief Technical Advisor, and redirect its efforts
toward more general aspects of civil service reform, including studies of the structure and roles of
ministries; operation and efficiency of the payroll system; and a census of civil servants, part time
workers, and teachers. These activities continued to receive funding under TA III, and resulted in
a number of documented changes, including (i) the removal of some 35,000 ghosts from the
payroll; (ii) a complete elimination of part time employment; (iii) a reduction in Ministries from
44 to the current 19, and (iv) the completion of the most accurate census to date of Government
employees. Perhaps most importantly, the continuous dialogue afforded by the necessity of
8



supervising the sub project elements resulted in a large degree of trust being built up between
IDA and Government on what are normally very sensitive matters. This trust has been translated
under the follow on EFMP into the design and implementation of one of the most comprehensive
civil service reform programs undertaken anywhere in Africa. Just one dimension-reduction in
government employment-serves to illustrate the point. In 1991, payroll records showed 312,000
people; currently the total at the end of April 1994 stands at 169,000, with projections for June
1994 indicating 150,000 people, as donor assistance with retrenchment costs becomes available .
32.   A key proportion of the 150,000 employees are teachers-some 95,000. Under TA mI, a
long and very detailed exercise was conducted by Government to authenticate the teachers'
payroll, which upon completion resulted in a yearly savings of over US$10 million. This
represents more than a twelve times payback in one year against the cost of the exercise
(approximately US$0.8 million).
33.   As mentioned above, technical assistance to the Ministry of Public Service, through the
Ministry of Planning, provided solid groundwork and the opportunity over an extended time
period for confidence building between IDA and Government that resulted in the launching of the
full scale reform program. It can be argued that the dialogue has assisted Government to "stay the
course" with the CSR program, with the result that it is now being assisted by many donors,
including UNDP, the British, Dutch, Netherlands, Austria, and Sweden, through cofinancing with
the EFMP credit.
F. Overall Performance and Institutional Development (Project Sustainability)
34.   Performance under the Third Technical Assistance Credit has been, in the main, very
satisfactory. The Credit continued the successful assistance to Government in laying the ground
for a range of IDA (and donor) funded investment and policy-based operations. It continued the
trend of utilizing technical assistance in a flexible manner, whereby an expatriate advisor was
directly teamed with a civil service counterpart in a senior management position e.g.,
commissioner; or deputy permanent secretary; and together, the details of a sub project were
worked out, within the general framework and overall budget previously agreed between IDA and
Government. Where this modality had been used under TA II, steps were taken under TA III to
phase out the expatriate as the co-manager, and return him/her to an advisory role, if possible on
a part time basis.
35.   The results achieved under TA III clearly demonstrate the benefits that can accrue through
technical assistance if there is a strong focal point within Government (in this case the Ministry of
Planning and Economic Development). Unfortunately, the project also occasionally exhibited the
difficulties inherent in technical assistance when Government policy makers are not in agreement
on the strategic direction for resource usage, and the visibility and cost of expatriate advisorsj/.
1/
As the TA was primarily supportive of major policy reforms about the direction of which
consensus within Government could not be expected, the presence of such expertise was
bound to be controversial. This, however, was no reason for the Bank not to finance the TA-
- as demonstrated by the remarkable achievement of Uganda over the last few years.
9



As with TA II, under TA III it should be noted that proper and fully required administrative
procedures as defined in the SAR for Government were not strictly followed. Many of the smaller
subprojects, covering training of individuals, procurement of equipment, funding for small
studies, etc. were not discussed by the required project review committee and the updating and
understanding of the project by interested government officials owed more to the missions and
aide memoires than to outward communication from MPED. (However, these lessons covering
technical assistance and its relationship to internal differences within Government were quickly
understood, both by IDA and Government, as demonstrated in Government's strict adherence to
the use of the Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) under the EFMP. Beyond required
quarterly meetings, Government also produces and distributes a detailed and comprehensive
quarterly report on progress under the EFMP, thereby ensuring complete transparency as to the
cost and usage of project funds).
36.   In terms of building institutional capacities, many of the subprojects achieved significant
improvements in the skill levels, procedural approaches, and general operating efficiencies of
respective organizations and units. Among many of note, the changes introduced at the Central
Bank, which again are partly attributable to committed management having an agreed and shared
vision with IDA, stand out. Tables 7 (D) and (C) show that the use of funds recognized the need
to utilize local capacity wherever possible, through the use of both long- and short-term
consultants. It is perhaps worth noting that from a total expenditure under the Credit of US$18
million, more than 40 percent can be identified as having been paid directly to Ugandans, used
for training/study tours, or used for equipment. Put another way, less than 60 percent went
directly outside the country for foreign consultancy fees. While this figure may seem large,
almost all of it can be identified as having been used for areas where there was no internal
capacity of any sort- computing, accounting, and debt monitoring. Two of these areas are the
central focus of the follow on EFMP, with the objective of building up indigenous capacity.
G.    IDAlGovernment Performance and Project Relationships
37.   The importance of effective, continuous, and frequent supervision cannot be
overemphasized in trying to improve the results from technical assistance, and certainly IDA's
performance was greatly dependent upon this. However, it must be noted that continued
involvement in the manner practiced between 1989 and 1993 has its risks-in terms of fostering
an added degree of dependence and also in the possibility of IDA being perceived by certain parts
of Government as too involved in internal matters. Effectively managing technical assistance in an
environment of low capacity while appropriately balancing the level of intervention is extremely
difficult. While continuity brings greater efficiency, through increased experience and trust, it also
brings increased risks. A lesson for the future, and currently being applied under EFMP to
mitigate these risks, involves greater use of "sub task managers" for the various specialized
subcomponents. In essence the IDA "sub task managers" and the Task Manager comprise a team
that tackles the intricacies and shares the decision making process, thus negating the appearance of
"monopoly power" that may be associated with a single Task Manager of a comprehensive TA
project.
38.   The results under TA III were greatly reinforced by a strong continuity of IDA and
Government personnel between TA II, TA IHI, and EFMP and interlocking structures that greatly
facilitated policy and implementation aspects. On Government's side, the same team of Permanent
10



Secretaries involved in the use of proceeds from this Credit were also involved in the design and
implementation of TA II and the follow on EFMP, which utilized many of the outputs and
experiences from TA III. On IDA's side, management of TA III was passed from the Country
Officer to a Public Sector Management Specialist, who in 1989, was transferred to the controlling
Country Operations Division, and was then the Task Manager and led the design of the EFMP.
Even following the subsequent movement of the Task Manager to a sector division, management
remained with the same person. This very unusual amount of continuity, over a period extending
from early 1989 to the writing of this PCR (May 1994), allowed for significantly enhanced
common understandings of practical difficulties in implementing technical assistance, and the
opportunity to learn from mistakes. The lessons of experience have been reflected in changes to
the follow-on project EFMP, and will be further refined in the planned Institutional Capacity
Building Project [FY95]). This continuity of personnel resulted in the ability to utilize assistance
very rapidly, without long delays and difficulties that can be associated with such issues as
procurement, contract awards, terms of reference, access to appropriate consulting expertise, etc.
The third aspect involving continuity and evolving expertise in the use of technical assistance
concerns a core group of expatriate advisors, recruited under TA II, retained under TA III
implementation, and utilized in the design of the EFMP project. The risks of perpetuating
"external expertise dependency" and the issue of the advisors in the politics of using technical
assistance became more problematic under TA III than had been seen previously. However, the
past decisions taken by Government (MPED) and IDA staffs that long term resident experts,
teamed with appropriately selected senior staff, and supported by contracted local staff was the
most efficient way to ensure that problems were tackled quickly and effectively was maintained,
as this approach continued to provide the best environment for providing training, as opposed to
merely putting people through classroom courses. As reported in the PCR for TA II, the success
of this approach is evident when looking at any number of departments within the core
organizations, where many civil servants first recruited to work on TA II subprojects graduated to
hold significant positions in subprojects under TA III and then with the merger of the Ministries
of Finance and Planning, assumed senior level positions in the newly organized ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning.
39.   As reported in the PCR for TA II, an extremely important element in IDA's performance
was the continued involvement of key donors-in particular UNDP, ODA, and USAID. It is
estimated that between 1986 and 1993, the Government of Uganda received approximately US$60
million from these donors and IDA for technical assistance. Such assistance has covered every
sector, with by far the most funding being expended around 'core' Government ministries and
associated economic policy and implementation. The IDA TA II Credit was the initial vehicle for
providing a focal point, (MPED) and a general framework for much of this expenditure. The
framework and expenditure patterns were reinforced under TA HI. The relationships with these
and other donors resulted in significant parallel financing, cofinancing, and trust fund activities
for activities within the EFMP framework. Without the very close cooperation that has evolved,
the impact of technical assistance would have been greatly impaired, as would IDA and
Government performance.
H.    Summary and Conclusions
40.   The Third Technical Assistance Credit met the stated general objectives of continued
strengthening of the capacities of core agencies and of transferring skills through training.
11



However, the particular issue of sustainability and most importantly, the payment of appropriate
salaries remains as Government's greatest challenge in deriving maximum advantage from
Technical Assistance inputs. These issues are now well to the fore in Government's program
under the CSRP, demonstrated by the 40 percent salary increase granted in the July 1993 budget,
the mid year increase of 30 percent plus, and the planned increment, along with monetization of
benefits, in the July 1994 budget.
12



PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A:  BACKGROUND
1.    During the appraisal of the 3rd IDA Technical Assistance Project in mid-1988, the
Government of Uganda was implementing a 2nd IDA Technical Assistance Project. The
2nd IDA Technical Assistance Project was, by then, nearing its completion date. The
project catered for general technical assistance needs, technical assistance related
equipment and training even in areas where these needs had not been identified at the time
of appraisal.
2.    Unlike the 2nd IDA Technical Assistance Project, the 3rd IDA Technical Assistance
Project was more focussed. It was focussed to the rehabilitation of the Government's
essential administrative and management functions in the key economic ministries. It
included Components that were designed to:-
(i)          restore the computerized accounting system and develop an integrated
financial information system;
(ii)         strengthen the Government's budgeting processes;
(iii)        rationalize the Government procurement process;
(iv)         develop the requisite database for the implementation and monitoring of
the Economic recovery programme and subsequent development
programmes;
(v)          support a programme to encourage, the return to Government service,
highly qualified expatriate Ugandans and;
(vi)         provide logistical support to critical economic recovery program tasks.
3.    These objectives have been achieved to a large extent through use of local and
international consultants, in-country and overseas training, resettlement of returning
expatriate Ugandans, and purchase of office equipment such as computers, stationery and
vehicles.
The benefits to Government have been tremendous.
(a)          A mainframe computer will soon be installed at the Uganda Computer
Services (UCS) and a number of networked desk-top computers will also
be installed at the UCS training centre. Installation of the equipment and
subsequent linkages to Bank of Uganda and Uganda Revenue Authority
equipment will restore the computerized accounting system and develop an
integrated financial information system.
13



(b)          A total of forty (40) expatriate Ugandans have returned and hold various
positions in different Government agencies. They are all highly qualified
Ugandans.
(c)          The Uganda Central Purchasing Corporation (UCPC) was supported in its
formative stages and is now a strong body handling Government
procurement functions.
(d)          In support of critical economic recovery programme tasks, the project
funds were used to purchase office supplies and vehicles as logistics.
Government also used the proceeds of the project funds to finance the cost
of advisory services provided by local and international consultants for
various agencies of Government.
In view of the fact that these were the project objectives, they (objectives)
have been broadly achieved.
B.    IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
4.    The former Ministry of Planning and Economic Development (MPED) was responsible
for implementation of the project. Responsibility for coordination and overall project
administration therefore lay with MPED. The Ministry compiled and submitted semi-
annual reports, prepared replenishment applications, procured goods and services after
necessary clearances of Letters of Invitation, shortlists, bidding documents etc. While
MPED was responsible for general project administration, the implementation of each
project Component was done by the Government Agency or Department directly
concerned.
5.    The project consisted of six (6) parts viz;
(i)          The Financial Information;
(ii)        the Budget reform;
(iii)        Rationalization of Procurement functions;
(iv)         Advisory Services for the Economic Recovery Program;
(v)          Statistics Rehabilitation and
(vi)         Strengthening of the Agricultural Secretariat.
The first three parts were to be implemented under the former MOF while parts (iv), (v)
and (vi) were to be implemented under the former MPED. The strengthening of the
Agricultural Secretariat lay under MPED's responsibility because the PS for MPED was
the Chairman of the Agricultural Policy Committee which oversees the functions of the
14



Agricultural Secretariat. The two major beneficiaries under the project were therefore the
two ministries of Finance and Planning and Economic Development.
6.    The former Ministry of Finance (MOF) - a major beneficiary under the project,was
supposed to assign Team Leaders for each of the major project components such as the
Financial Information System, the budget reform exercise and the Uganda Central
Purchasing Corporation. It (MOF) did not appoint the Team Leaders.
7.    The then MOF and MPED had differences over the need and use of technical assistance
and because of Government's internal differences over the need and use of technical
assistance, the Review Committee, which had been constituted for approval of sub-
projects, met only in the early years of the project. As the differences between MPED
and Ministry of Finance became more pronounced, MOF failed to appoint the Teamn
Leaders of the Ministry's project components and as a result, the implementation of the
Financial Information System and the budget reform exercise components were not
implemented in a timely manner. The Financial Information Systems Component is being
implemented now while the Budget Reform Component is expected to be implemented
under the on-going Economic and Financial Management Project. The Uganda Central
Purchasing Corporation and the Economic Analysis Unit Components were implemented
in a timely manner, inspite of the "internal differences' referred to above. This is
possibly attributable to the personal abilities of the then Head of the Economic Analysis
Unit and the then Director General of the Uganda Central Purchasing Corporation.
8.    The sub-projects covering the Statistics Department and the Agricultural Secretariat were
all executed in a timely fashion in close collaboration between MPED, IDA and the
Component Managers.
C.    USE OF ADVISORS/CONSULTANTS UNDER TA m
9.    At the time of preparing this contribution to the PCR Government has become
aware of the growing debate in development circles and particularly in the Africa
Region of the Bank on the use of technical assistance, consultants and long term
advisors. The emerging consensus appears to be that expatriate long term advisors
are not a successful model in building up local capacity and transferring skills,
(and that in future project design this approach should be avoided at all costs).
While this may be true for some countries and some projects, the results of this
project provide a very different picture in the use of resources. The evidence of
the last seven years of Technical Assistance provided under TAIR and TAII
clearly demonstrates that the most important factors contributing to successful use
of TA involve: (i) Government being fully committed to the project objectives; (ii)
close and continuous supervision of the project, performed jointly by Government
and IDA; (iii) proper integration of the TA efforts within the overall country
dialogue between Government and IDA. These factors determined the skills
needed at any time for implementing project components. In turn skill needs were
then translated into when and where long term advisors or short term consultants
were appropriate.
15



10.   A detailed review of the annexes for the project shows that the skills needed
involved a considerable mix of long term expatriate advisors; long term Ugandan
advisors/experts; and short term consultants. Thus, Government would contend
that proper analysis, including assessments of the political context within which
the assistance is rendered should be the key determinants for the type of inputs.
Had there been any blanket rule against the use of long term advisors for TAIII,
undoubtedly the results achieved would have been considerably less.
D.    EVALUATION OF THE 3RD IDA TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
11.   The achievements made under the 3rd IDA Technical Assistance Project speak for
themselves. The total credit amount was SDR13.8 million or about US$18.0 million. Of
this amount, over US$1 million has been used to procure Computer hardware and
software not only for UCS but also for other Government agencies; about US$494,000
was used for the budget reform exercises, about US$2,461,000 was used for strengthening
of the procurement agencies i.e. the Uganda Central Purchasing Corporation and Central
Tender Board; US$1,510,000 was applied for the rehabilitation and development of the
Statistics Department; about US$236,000 was used for the Economic Analysis Unit (EAU)
- a unit which played a big role in Economic Policy formation before the merger of the
former MOF and MPED. About US$2,430,000 was used by Bank of Uganda;
US$613,000 by the Uganda Revenue Authority and US$1,094 by the Ministry of Public
Service. All these Government agencies above have been undergoing reforms and are
still. The assistance provided for these reforms took the form of technical assistance,
training of staff, provision of office supplies and vehicles and in some cases, payment of
staff allowances.
12.   The project retained a flexible design as the 1st and 2nd IDA Technical Assistance
Projects while placing greater emphasis on institutional reform and development and
strengthening of the core agencies. As such, other areas/agencies of relevance to the
recovery programme were assisted under the project.
13.   The Project has been implemented over a period of six (6) years. The
implementation, as shown by disbursement of funds over the project life, followed
a near normal distribution curve with disbursements at US$0.6, $3.6, $4.8, $4.5,
$2.6 and $1.9 in the fiscal years 1988/89, 1989/90, 1990/91, 1991/92, 1992/93
and 1993/94 respectively. The Credit proceeds were fully disbursed
approximately nineteen months ahead of the scheduled closing date of December
31, 1995. The fact that we were able to close operations under the project ahead
of the scheduled closing date also indicates accelerated project implementation
despite the difficulties. In Government's view this record is a commendable
achievement given the slow implementation of other similar Government projects.
16



E.    GENERAL CONCLUSION
14.   The Third IDA Technical Assistance Project has been a tremendous success. Almost all
the project objectives were met viz:
(a)          strengthening core agencies through provision of technical assistance and
transforming of skills through training;
(b)          strengthening of core agencies through provision of vehicles, computer
hardware and software etc;
(c)          provision of special advisory services for the economic recovery
programme such as funding of the former Economic Analysis Unit.
In order to sustain continuity in areas that still needed further assistance, funds provided under the
on-going Economic and Financial Management Project are being used. Government is indeed
grateful for this assistance.
17



D. Borrower Performance        Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Deficient
Preparation                                           X
Implementation                   X                                            l
Covenant compliance              X
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of outcome       Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Deficient
x
19



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CR.1951-UG)
Part III: Statistical Information
TABLE 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial   Partial   Negligible   N/A
Macro  policies                _____________                         X
Sector Policies                  X
Financial Objectives                                                 X
Institutional development        X
Physical objectives                                                  X
Poverty reduction                              X
Gender issues                                  X
Other social objectives                        X
Environmental objectives                                             X
Public sector management         X
Private sector development       X
Other (specify)
B. Project Sustainability    Likely  | Unlikely   Uncertain
C. Bank Performance         Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                                    X
Preparation Assistance                             x
Appraisal                   ___ ____ X
Supervision                  X
18



Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Tide           Purpose           Approval      Status         Comments
Economic Recovery I    Support for economic       1987   Completed in    TA III supported
(Cr. 1844-UG;         measures under the                      1991        implementation of
US$65 million)         economic reform                                   ministerial reviews
program
Economic Recovery II   Support for economic       1990   Completed in    TA III supported
(Cr. 2087-UG;         measures under PPF                      1993        implementation of
US$125 million)        (1988/89-90/91)                                   ministerial reviews,
group worker
reductions
The Second Technical   Strengthen Government's    1983   Completed in    TA III continued
Assistance Project (Cr.  economic decision                    1993        implementation of
1434-UG;              making, planning, and                               on-going projects
US$ 15.0 million)     implementation capacities
Structural Adjustment I  Support GOU's            1991      Completed   TA III funded URA
(Cr. 2314-UG          Stabilization                         Jan. 1994     set-up; studies in
US$125 million)                                                           Agriculture, CSR
reform
Economic and           Build greater institutional  1992    Ongoing,      EFMP continued
Financial Management   capacity in key                     Completion      budget reform,
Project                government                          expected in   UCS operations and
(Cr. 2180-UG;         organizations.                          1999         BOU assistance
US$ 29.0 million)                                        I      _started under TA III
Public Enterprise      Assist GOU in preparing    1988   Ongoing, has
Project (Cr. 1962-UG;   detailed sector plans for           led to the
US$50 million)        finance and industry                  Enterprise
Development
Project.
20



Table 3. Project Timetable
Item                    Date Actual
Identification          March 1987
Preparation             November 1987
Appraisal               February 6, 1988
Negotiation             July 18, 1988
Board Approval          August 23, 1988
Credit Signature        November 14, 1988
Effectiveness           May 11, 1989
Credit Closing          December 31, 1995
Credit Completion       May 31, 1994
Table 4. Credit Disbursement (US$ million)
Cumulative
Appraisal Estimate           Actual            as percent of
IDA Fiscal                                                      Appraisal
|    Year  Annual   Cumulative     Annual      Cumulative     Estimate
1988/89      0.6        0.6          0.325        0.325         54.2
1989/90      3.6        4.2          1.560        1.885         44.8
1990/91      4.8        9.0          5.270        7.155         79.5
1991/92      4.5        1.35         4.992        12.147         89.0
1992/93      2.6        16.1         4.732        16.879        104.8
1993/94      1.5        17.6         1.121        18.000        102.3
1994/95      0.4        18.0
21



Table 5. Project Implementation
Listing of Specifically approved expenditures
Subproiects SAR Category               Brief Description         Amount budgeted
(UJS$)
2       Expatriate Ugandans          MD @ UEB                         250,000
3       Ag. sector strengthening    FAO executed                    2,300,000
4       ERP assistance              Phoenix contract at CMB           800,000
6       ERP assistance              TA II/III proj. office             61,000
7       Stats. rehab. program       Admin. asst. ct.                   36,000
8       ERP assistance              Pop. Census advisor               100,000
9       Expatriate Ugandans         Various ministries                125,000
10      ERP (BOU)                    Debt monitoring advisor           475,000
11      Rationalize procurement      IDBS contract                     180,000
12      ERP assistance               MPS pro. doc.; Teaching            20,000
13      ERP assistance               EAU equipment                      52,000
14      ERP assistance               Min. of Animal Industries
rationalization study            150,000
15      ERP (BOU)                    OGL advisor                        90,000
16      Ag. sec strengthening        Advisor startup                     3,000
17       Stats rehab. program        Local consultant;                  25,000
18      ERP assistance               EAU incentives                    140,000
19      ERP assistance               ERC II project office              45,000
20       Stats. rehab. program        Local consultants                  4,500
21       Ag. sector strengthening     Training tour                     56,000
22       ERP assistance               Training UP&T; o/s                17,000
23       Ag. sector strengthening     Training; o/s                     13,000
24       Ag. sector strengthening     Advisor on coffee                 34,000
25       Rationalize procurement      Training; o/s                      6,000
26       Not used                                                            -
27       Rationalize procurement      Training o/s                      71,000
28       Budget reform                Training o/s                      13,000
29       ERP assistance              Land tenure study                  45,000
30       ERP assistance              Local advisor, CB                 113,000
32       ERP (BOU)                   Mgt. assistance                   200,000
33       Stats. rehab. program       OPS execution                     950,000
34       ERP assistance              PMEU; OPS exec.                 1,000,000
35       ERP assistance              Study; ERC II                     25,000
36      IS                           Implementation mg. selection costs    20,000
37       Ag. sector strengthening    Training; local                    44,000
38       Stats. rehab. program       Consultant fund                   370,000
39       Stats. rehab. program       Local consultant                   18,000
40       ERP assistance              ETF local consultancy             200,000
41       FIS (BOU)                   Training o/s                       11,000
42       FIS (BOU)                   Training local                     68,000
43       ERP assistance              Training o/s                       16,000
44       ERP assistance              Training o/s                       11,000
22



45       Rationalize procurement      Crown Agents consultancy         2,000,000
46       ERP assistance               Northern Study                      34,500
47       ERP assistance               Training o/s                        11,000
48       ERP assistance               Training tour                        3,000
49       Expatriate Ugandans (BOU)    Various Departments                 63,000
50       Rationalize procurement      Equipment CPD                      100,000
51       Budget reform                Intl. consultant                    71,000
52       Expatriate Ugandan           D/G CPD                             60,000
53       Expatriate Ugandan           MD @ UCB                            25,000
54       ERP assistance               Training o/s                         5,500
55       Expatriate Ugandan (BOU)     D/G                                 50,000
56       ERP assistance               Training EAU o/s                     7,000
57       ERP (BOU)                    Warburg consultancy                850,000
58       Expatriate Ugandan           MD @ UDB                            13,000
59       ERP (BOU)                    Local consultant                    68,000
60       FIS                          Equipment                          200,000
61       ERP assistance               MPED supplies                       12,000
62       ERP assistance               MOF/MPED facilities study           58,000
63       ERP assistance               Training PMEU o/s                    1,000
64       Rationalize procurement      Training o/s                         8,000
65       Rationalize procurement      Training; local                     46,000
66       Rationalize procurement      Equipment CTB                       50,000
67       Expatriate Ugandan           MD @ UEB                            13,000
68       ERP assistance               MPS G.E. Study                     590,000
69       ERP assistance               TA Il/Il audit                      50,000
70       ERP assistance               Training accountants                75,000
71       ERP assistance               Study on protection                145,000
72       ERP assistance               Consultancy, North. Proj.           15,000
73       ERP assistance               Consultancy for AIDS               300,000
74       Returning Ugandan            Consultancy                        154,000
75       ERP (BOU)                    Consultant-research                 80,000
76       ERP (BOU)                    Local consultant                    72,000
77       ERP assistance               Loc. consult. (Northern proj.)      11,000
78       Budget reform                Overseas training                   25,000
79       ERP (BOU)                    Interview expense                     600
80       ERP assistance               Accounts training                  29,000
81       ERP (BOU)                    C/L contract-accts.                200,000
82       Not used
83       ERP (BOU)                    consultancy; accounts               24,000
84       ERP (BOU)                    Training; computers                150,000
85       ERP assistance               Local consultancy (MPED)             1,500
86       Budget reform                Computer training                   25,000
87       ERP assistance               URA procurement                    280,000
88       ERP assistance               Land policy training                 5,000
89       ERP assistance               KPMG @ MPS                         250,000
90       ERP assistance               Local contract @ UEB                15,000
91       ERP (BOU)                    Consult; supervision               200,000
92       ERP (BOU)                    Loc. consultancy; ops.              60,000
23



93       ERP assistance               Loc. consultancy EAU                36,000
94       ERP assistance               Loc. consultancy MPED               10,000
95       Budget reform                Local payment MPED                  50,000
96       Expatriate Ugandans          BOU                                 32,000
97       Expatriate Ugandan           Ministry of Justice                 14,000
98       ERP assistance               Study-APT                           64,000
99       ERP assistance               Road study contract                250,000
100       ERP assistance               Training o/s                        12,000
101       Budget reform                Training o/s                       35,000
102       ERP assistance               BOU-lawyers                         14,000
103       ERP assistance               UAC                                 18,000
104       ERP assistance               URA D/G contract                  250,000
105       ERP assistance               Secretarial training                 3,000
106       ERP assistance               Legal training                      10,000
107       Budget reform                Financial training                 30,000
108       ERP assistance               Financial training                 40,000
109       ERP (BOU)                    Financial training                 30,000
110       ERP assistance               Legal training                      12,000
111       Budget reform                Financial training                   3,000
112       Expatriate Ugandan           Dir. @ UMI                          15,000
113       Stats. rehab.                Training local                      6,000
114       ERP (MPS)                    Incentive payments                  12,000
115       ERP (MPS)                    Op. costs                           30,000
116       Budget reform                Equipment                            3,000
117       Expatriate Ugandans          Accountant (BOU)                   50,000
118       Expatriate Ugandan           Accountant (BOU)                    82,000
119       Budget reform                Equipment                           10,000
120       ERP assistance               Secretarial training o/s             5,000
121       ERP assistance               Financial training local             5,000
122       ERP (URA)                    Short-term consultancy             23,000
123       ERP assistance               Financial training local             3,000
124       ERP (MPS)                    Equipment                          30,000
125       ERP assistance               Legal training o/s                  12,000
126       ERP (MPS)                    Short-term consultancy             45,000
127       ERP (UCS)                    Incentive payments                 54,000
128       ERP (URA)                    Short-term consultancy             30,000
129       Budget reform                Financial training o/s               5,000
130       ERP (UCS)                    Consultancy expense                 4,000
131       ERP assistance               Training inductees (local)        5,021.66
132       ERP (URA)                    Taxation degree o/s                30,000
133       ERP (BOU)                    Training local                      3,000
134       Not used
135       Budget reform                Operating costs                    12,000
136       ERP (UCS)                    Long-term consultancy             240,000
137       Expatriate Ugandan           Long-term consultancy              82,000
138       ERP (MPS)                    Long-term consultancy             115,000
139       Budget reform                Financial training o/s              12,000
140       ERP assistance               Financial training local            8,500
24



141       ERP (MPS)                    Training local                      6,000
142       ERP assistance               Secretarial training o/s           16,000
143       ERP                          Purchase of UCs mini computers    938,180
144       ERP (BOU)                    Refund to BOU                     106,000
145      ERP assistance                Training local                     4,100
146       ERP assistance               Short-term consultancy             40,000
147       ERP assistance               Legal training o/s                 10,000
148      ERP Assistance                Local consultancy (oil)             4,000
25



Table 5. Project Implementation (continued)
Summary (US$ 000's)
Classification by Major Beneficiary and Cost Category
(Drawn from Project files)
FIS     Budget   Procurement   Agriculture    Statistics    EAU    BOU    URA    MPS
Foreign          344       171        2,180          1,984        770         -     2,106    250     784
Consultancy                                                                                   _
Local             -                     -             50          184        136     238      53      170
Consultancy
Training          79       148         131            113         200        7       180      30      140
Staff Costs       54        50          -             100         200        140     106      -       120
Equipment        200        10         150            150         100        52       -      380      190
Operating         20        15           -            50          250             -           -       190
Costs                                            _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _                             _  _
| Total          697       394        2,461          2,447        1,710      336    2,430    713    1,594
Additional use of funds across all beneficiaries:
(a) Transportation and local contracts for expatriate Ugandans: $1,334,000
(b) Training beyond beneficiaries listed: $302,000
Major contracts with international agencies have been broken into indicated cost categories on the basis of contract budget.
(c) ERP 'other activities' accounted for US$ 3.5 million
o Studies $450,000; PMEU $1.2Million; MPED $0.4 million; Agric. Sector $1.1 and other $0.4. million
26



Table 6.
Project Costs and Flnancing
Sources                      Planned                      Actual *
IDA                                   US$000's                     US$000's
1. Consultants' services               9.75                         15.00
2. Equipment and vehicles              1.41                          1.08
3. Training                            1.80                         0.75
4. Staff Costs                         0.54                         0.37
5. PPF                                 0.60                         0.60
6. Unallocated Total                   3.90                          _
IDA Total                               18.0                         17.80
GOU                                      3.0                          4.80
Donors                                   2.0                          0.40
Total                        23.0                         23.00
The SAR projected a formal contribution to the project of US$2.0 from CIDA for use in statistics; in the event this money
was not available, but was partly made up with parallel financing from UNDP, EEC, and SIDA.
GOU counterpart assistance was provided in kind, rather than funds. No counterpart project fund was established, but
internal records were kept of Government employees and activities dedicated full time to the project activities. Total costs
under this approach far exceeded the amounts required for counterpart, at an estimated value of US$4.8million.
Under "actual" some training is recorded as part of consultancy services, values are converted from SDR's.
27



Table 7. Aspects of Implementation and Project Results
A. Expatriate Ugandans who returned from overseas and provided local contracts
Name                        Institution of Work          Designation
Dr. C. Magimbi              Mulago Hospital
Mr. Rutta                   Uganda Electricity Board     Managing Director
Dr. Bukwirwa                Mulago Hospital
Mr. Kamusingize             Uganda Development Corp.
Dr. Kasirye                 Uganda Railways Corp.
Dr. Ndyanabangi             Mulago Hospital
Mr. Kateba                  Min. of Natural Resources
Dr. Nahamya                 NRM Secretariat
Dr. Muheirwe                E.A. Steel Mills
Dr. Kironde                 Ugandan Posts & Tel. Corp.
Mr. J. Nuwamanya            Prime Minister's Office
Miss Mutyabule              Makerere University
Mr. Turyagumisiriza         Jinja Hospital
Mr. Tugumisirize            Mulago Hospital
Dr. Musoke                  Ugandan Railways Corp.
Mrs Sabiti                  Min. of Natural Resources
Mr. Katerega                Uganda Railways Corp.
Mr. Nsubuga                 Ministry of Environment
Protection
Dr. Kamugisha               UVRI                         Doctor
Mr. Kayondo                 Ministry of Energy           Commissioner for Hydro
Power
Dr. Mulinde                 Papsca
Mr. G. Rubagumya            Uganda Inv. Authority        Executive Director
Mr. Turyahikayo             Ministry of Energy           Assistant Director of
Research
Mr. S. Kaboyo               Bank of Uganda               Banking Officer
28



Mr. Kajubi Wsswa            Bank of Uganda                                          l
Dr. Kiyingi                 Makerere University          Senior Lecturer
Prof. Hyuha                 Makerere University          Academic Registrar
Mr. Mugenyi                 Bank of Uganda              Bank Secretary
Mr. Katimbo M.              Bank of Uganda                                          l
A. Luswata                  Bank of Uganda               Assistant Chief Accountant
Mr. Timothy Lwanga          U.C.P.C.                    Director General
John Twinomusinguzi         Uganda Development Bank      Managing Director
S. K. Lwanga                Uganda AIDS Commissioner   Director General
Mr. Tuzinde Kagwa J.        Bank of Uganda               Consultant
Mrs. Rukimirana             Uganda Law Society           Sec Uganda Law Society
Mr. Simon Rutega            Bank of Uganda               Banking Officer
Mr. Mdoe                    Uganda Airlines             Financial Controller
Mr. Francis Tyaba           Bank of Uganda               Consultant
Dr. Petero Kwizera          Uganda Computer Services    Systems Manager
Mr. Sempebwa                Statistics Departnent        Computer Manager
Results: 40 returned at a cost of approximately US$1.85 million, including 100+ person years
of contracts.
29



Table 7. Aspects of Implementation and Project Results (continued)
B. Details of training/study tours provided
Details of Training/Study Tours Provided Under TA III
Name                 Course/Tour          Location     Approx.    Actual
Cost      Cost
l_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _      _ _ _ _ _ _    (US$)      (US$)
Ag. Secretariat        Coffee study tour        Madagascar    56,000     50,188
1. Dr. Suruma                                   Costa Rica
2. Mr. Kibirango L.                             Colombia
3. Mr. Kakwano E.
4. Mr. L.E. Eturu
5. Mr. K.M. Agarwal
Mr. Nyende             Investment appraisal     Harvard        17,000     10,870
Mr. Nsimbi             Agricultural policy      Harvard        13,000     12,809
Supplies Directorate   Study tour for           Washington    71,200     71,200
1. Prof. S. T. Tumwine   procurement
2. Mr. E. Kliza
3. Mr. S.A. Ukkonika
4. Mr. B. Kafuko Waibi
5. Mr. Kubaza Lwanga
6. Mr. E.P.O. Lijala
7. Mr. Mukalazi Kibuka
8. Mrs. Sematiko
9. Mrs. Muguma
10. Mrs. Bigombe B.
11. Mr. Musisi
12. Hon. Butele
Wokadala               Budgeting                Harvard        13,000     12,798
Adv Plan Proj (IBRD)    Agric. policy           in country    43,900     40,722
30



Isanga                Loan negotiations       ILI           16,000    15,246
Okwakol               Not utilized            n/a           10,000    n/a
Nsubuga               Loan negotiations       ILI           11,000    10,860
Kibirango & Tete      Stock exchange          Kenya         3,000     2,100
Muguma                Legal training          Inst. Devt.    7,000    7,200
Kimbowa               Legal training/procu.   ESAMI         4,500     4,346
MPED Budget           Accountancy training    Glasgow       75,000    76,905
Personnel
1. Mr. D. Kisembo     do                      do
2. Mr. C. Odongo      do                      do
Okino
3. Mr. D. Mayito      do                      do
Kiwanuka
4. Mr. Kalanguka      do                      do
Kayondo
5. Mr. G. A.          do                      do
Dhatemwa
Ssekandi & Tisasirana    Budget               Harvard       25,000    26,154
Wokadala              Financial management    Washington    28,500    29,132
Kitabire              Computerized financial    Washington    25,000    25,022
analysis
Twinomukunzi          Land policy             Washington    5,000     6,533
Kwarija Tumwebaze     Ind. plan. & invest.    Bradford      15,000    18,016
appraisal
31



12 Gov't. Officials                                         120,000   133,280
1. Oluka              Budgeting               Harvard
2. Anyali             Budgeting               Harvard
3. Okot               Budgeting               Harvard
4. Muduuli            Budgeting               Harvard
S. Kayondo            Budgeting               Harvard
6. Tukei Olupot       Budgeting               Harvard
7. Basobokwe Alice    Inv. appraisal, mgt.    Harvard
8. John Bitete        Public relations        Holborn
College
9. Bagyenda           Bank restructuring      Intados/Int'l.
Mgt.
10. Banyoya           Budgeting               Crown
Agents
1I. Ssekandi          Budgeting               Crown
Agents
12. R. Nsubuga        Admin. of Justice      ILI
Lilian Bahihuga       Secretarial             ESAMI         3,000     8,351
Mutyaba               Loan negotiations       ILI           10,000
Gov't. Officials      __      _ __ _                    -  40,000    53,812
Kyazze                Loan negotiations       ILI
Byamugisha            Legal training          Crown
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ A gents_ _ _ _
Kasande               Debt mgt.               RIPA
Apire                 Mgt. & accountancy      RIPA          40,000    53,812
W. Kabega (DPP)       Legal                   London        12,000    10,350
Mayanja Caroiane      Legal (human rights)    Strasbourg    3,000     2,513
Kaliba                Secretarial             ESAMI         6,000     6,168
A. Mulondo            Secretarial             ESAMI         5,000     8,669
Nyakairu              Inv't. negotiations     Washington    12,000    11,161
Acul                  Mgt. appl. for computers  Washington    12,000    17,781
32



Kwizera               Debt management         Warburgs      5,000     6,727
Isanga                Degree in taxation      UK            30,000    26,875
Kabega                Debt management         Harare        3,000     1,537
Kitabire & Muhakanizi   Economic policy       Washington    12,000    7,150
Kyambadde &           Admin./secretarial      ESAMI         8,500     12,604
Turyahikayo
Basemera              Admin./secretarial      ESAMI         6,000     6,168
M. Ichem              Secretarial             London        16,000    15,607
Nyago                 MIS course              Arthur D.     11,000    10,363
Little
Bahigeine             Conf. on Women Judges   New Zealand   10,000
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ 8,613
Total in US$   809,600   826,929
33



Table 7. Aspects of Implementation and Project Results (continued)
C. Details of Local consultancies and local advisor/consulting contracts
Name/Organization    Position/assignment   Duration/Value
Kafura              Administration assistant
Statistics Department    4 yr contract
Sempebwa            Computer Specialist    4 yr contract
Zake                Head, EAU              2 yr contract
Prof. Hynha         Economist, MFEP        2 yr contract
Opio                census advisor         1 yr contract
Kibirango           BOU consultancy        128,000
Lwanga              DIG Supplies Directorate 2 yr contract
Kayondo             Consultant (Engineer)    1 yr contract
Suruma              D/G BOU                2 yr contract
Ssentogo            MOF/MPED buildings   58,000
Rutta               MD U.E.B.              2 yr contract
Lwanga              DIG AIDS Comm.         2 yr.contract
Affuriate           Advisor, BOU           1 yr contract
Musoke              BOU consultancy        24,000
Musabe              electrical engineering    1 yr contract
Skill Consult       auditing               20,000
Mdoe                UAC                    1 yr contract
Larbi-Siaw          D/G URA                3 yr contract
Kwizera             computing, UCS         2 yr contract
34



Table 7. Aspects of Implementation and Project Results (continued)
D. Details of Long- (over six months) & Short-term contracts to individual expatriates
(US$ values are given where the contract was not for residency; less than six months, or
intermittent).
Name         Area of Responsibility      Duration    Value
Hodgkinson   Co-Director Statistics      4.5 years
Crone        Census advisor              0.5 year
Tanjutco     CTA, CSR                    4.5 years
Gordon       Advisor, coffee                        34,000
Davies       MPS Reform                             25,000
Brett        Northern region Study                  51,000
Kotulus      Budget Reform                          94,000
Swinimer     Computing, BOU                         8,000
Porter       Supervision, BOU            1 year
Raje         Systems, UCS                2 years
Massutti     Capacity Building, MPS      1 year
Person years. and total values: 13.5 years at a cost of US$1,860,000 plus US$192,000
35



Table 7. Aspects of Implementation and Project Results (continued)
E. Listing of Major Consulting Contracts awarded to international
companies/organizations
Company Narn                   Area of Assignment
Coopers & Lybrand              Accountancy/Audit/Computing BOU
FAO                            Agricultural Secretariat Strengthening
Phoenix Associates             Coffee Marketing Board reorganization
IDBS                           Assessment of Procurement assignment needs
Agrisystems                    Reorganization of Agricultural Ministries
Syviton                        Financial Sector Reorganization-BOU
CSL                            Debt management/Records at BOU
Warburgs                       Debt management Strategy, implementation
Crown Agents                   Implementation of Supplies Directorate
M/S Repim LTD                  Study of protection/tariffs/trade
Computer Solutions             Computer Set up/training, BOU
APT                            Study of small scale agricultural industries
Scott, Wilson, Kirkpatrick     Re-evaluation study for Mubende road
KPMG                           Rationalization of ministries study
& work on monetization of benefits
Total value of all contracts: US$ 9,145,000
36



Table 7. Aspects of Implementation and Project Results (continued)
F. Studies
Studies                  Purpose                Status            linpact
Rationalization of the  Support for conditionality of   Completed mid   Assisted with
Ministry of Animal      ERC 11 on Administrative     1990            changes to
Industries/Fisheries    Reform                                       Agricultural
ministries, and all
ministries
Northern Region Study/   Assist Government in       Completed late   New Project
Paper                   preparing IDA/donor          1990            prepared, became
financed project                            effective 1991
Protection Study        Support for ERC 11          completed mid    MFEP were able
negotiations                1991            to persuade cabinet
against restrictive
tariffs.
Small scale industries  Support to Government's     completed 1992   assisted ongoing
(agriculture)           case for free market                        liberalization of
approach in agriculture                     the agricultural
sector                                      sector
F. Portal/Mubende Road   Provide a basis for detailed    completed 1992  road now to be
Reassessment            costing/economic analysis of                 built to more cost
proposed road                               effective standards
Customs review          provide assistance to       completed 1992   unit refined in new
restructuring of MFEP                       structure
department                                                     l
Petroleum Study         review cost                 completed 1993   cost savings of
advantages/operation of ICB                 US$5 million p.a.,
for petroleum                               identified.
PMEU Reassessment       provide input for integration   completed mid   structure/operating
of the function into new    1993            mode defined
MFEP structure
37



Table 7. Aspects of Implementation and Project Results (continued)
G. Major T.A. Contracts: General Performance
1.    Civil Service Reform. As previously noted under the Project Completion Report for
TA 11, UNDP OPS became more strongly involved in IDA funded technical assistance in
Uganda when they took over the contract for assistance to the Ministry of Public Service and
Cabinet Affairs from another UN agency, which Government felt were unresponsive to the
need for speed, particularly in regard to procurement matters. This sub project was continued
under TA III, as was the project for Statistics. Government judged their performance to be
more than satisfactory and awarded several other contracts during the life of the credit, for
procurement activities and project implementation. These contracts covered procurement of
computing equipment for UCS; procurement of a range of items-vehicles, computers, weigh
bridges etc. for URA; procurement of vehicles for many agencies within the project scope;
and implementation of the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit and Economic Advisory
Task Force sub projects. The relationship that was developed between Government, OPS, and
IDA has been above the average. The flexibility of the modalities offered by OPS was utilized
on a case by case basis to meet different needs at different stages of sub project design.
Moreover, the quickness of response, the ease of organizing joint missions, and the cost
elements of their work all assisted in the achievement of results. Under the follow on Credit,
EFMP, Government has extended further contracts in recognition of their performance.
2.    Assistance to BOU. The major consulting organization to which this contract was
awarded provided significant assistance to the Bank of Uganda (BOU) in the areas of
computing and accounting. Early in 1990 a new Governor was appointed at BOU. One of his
first tasks was to bring the internal financial situation under control. No accounts had been
produced since 1986 and during that time the location of the Bank had been changed, with the
result that many records were missing. The local office of the consulting firm was employed,
using BOU funds to provide an audit of accounts. It quickly became evident that this was not
possible, as no accounts existed. The firm's UK HQ were brought in on a sole source contract
to work with the accounting and the MIS department to generate the needed financials. This
task was completed, resulting in agreed and audited "Statement of Affairs," (which was
accepted by the IMF in lieu of audited accounts). Further, through the work on producing the
financial statement many new processes and procedures were introduced into the accounting
area, (which are planned for further refinement under EFMP). It should be noted that this
work benefitted significantly from the program to return qualified expatriate Ugandans to the
country. Five qualified accountants, including a new head of the department were recruited
during this time frame.
3.    Assistance to CMB. A consulting firm was hired under wide ranging terms of
reference to "strengthen the operation of the Coffee Marketing Board (CMB). This
approximately US$800,000 contract encountered a number of problems. CMB was in the
throws of change, and the new managing director was resistant to some of the policy changes
agreed under the Agricultural Structural Adjustment Credit (ASAC), that affected CMB's role
and functions. Further, the area of computing and computer operations presented difficulty as
CMB did not provide suitable counterparts for training. Towards the end of the contract there
was significant discussion between Government (MPED), CMB and the contractor concerning
38



the level of billing in relation to the completeness of deliverables. In retrospect there is little
doubt that the policy difficulties relating to significant change in the sector at the time of the
assignment, the changes in personnel at CMB, the matter of unpaid invoices, and the weak
coordinating mechanisms between the many actors involved with this specific sub project were
all partly responsible for a less than completely successful sub project.
4.    Debt Management. A UK based merchant bank won a contract to assist BOU in the
reconciliation of their debt figures and the development and implementation of a debt strategy.
This work, performed over approximately 18 months might be considered not only the most
successful use of funds under TA III, but could serve as a model for what can be achieved if
there is complete and total agreement and commitment to objectives, and extremely close
coordination between the parties. The final result of the work was: (i) the Ugandan
Government, advised by the consultant, received the most favorable terms for debt relief ever
given by the Paris Club, (1992), and (ii) an IDA funded debt buy back operation was
successfully effected. Beyond these specific measurable achievements the consultants also
restructured the External Debt Monitoring Unit at BOU; trained several members of staff in
computer operations related to data base management and scheduling techniques, and assisted
in introducing a transparent system for the decision making within Government for the
decisions on the payment of debt. It should be noted that this work was also tied to the work
of another consultant, supplied under a different contract, who was working on the
disbursement side of the EDMO office, and significant synergy was derived from the two
assignments, to the credit of both parties.
5.    Procurement. Following preparation work performed by International Development
Business Studies (IDBS) to precisely define the scope of assistance needed, a consulting firm
specialized in procurement won a competitive bid situation to supply assistance to the Central
Tender Board (CTB), and the Uganda Supplies Directorate (USD). The objectives were to
help set up the USD, a new organization, and to interlink operations with those of the CTB.
Consultants were fielded promptly, per the contract, and work was completed according to the
TOR's on time and in an efficient manner. Regular reports on progress and difficulties were
provided to the recipients of the assistance, the supervising ministry and IDA. At the
conclusion of the assignment USD was functioning in an efficient manner, with senior staff in
all the main positions having been trained in their duties and the operation of their
departments; accounting, purchasing, and computing systems were installed and documented.
Assistance to CTB involved working closely with the Board and setting up systems for the
clearance of procurement tenders. The full benefits to Government of the consultancy were
never achieved because of the suspension of the Director General shortly after the assignment
finished. (Though he was subsequently cleared of the alleged indiscretions he declined to
resume his post). This change in continuity at the top of the organization and the cloud cast
over USD at the time also had effects upon the staff morale and the ability of the organization
to continue with its mandate. However, these matters were not related to the work of the
consultants which was judged to be satisfactory.
6.    Agriculture (Policy) Secretariat. FAO were given a sole source contract to strengthen
the Agricultural Secretariat that operated under the auspices of the Bank of Uganda. The
contract, covering 24 months, involved inputs of long and short term expertise, acquisition of
vehicles and equipment, and the organization and conduct of training. Under the project
several working parties were constituted to tackle different aspects of Agricultural reform.
39



With the three different ministries in the country responsible for different parts of Agricultural
policy and implementation the working parties represented the only truly independent source
of planning and implementation expertise available to the Ministry of Planning in its efforts to
liberalize the agricultural sector. FAO's performance in execution was judged satisfactory;
resident experts were fielded mainly on time, and short term experts of appropriate quality
were fielded as needed.
7.    Ministry of Animal Industries and Fisheries. A consulting organization was contracted
to help reorganize the role and functions of the Ministry of Animal Industries & Fisheries, as
part of the evolving developments in the agricultural sector, and of the structure of all
Government ministries. The consultants report was produced on time, and of a reasonable
standard but lacked ownership within government, as it was produced at a time of intense
internal discussion on the future of the Ministry, where political issues carried more
importance than organizational issues. However, the report did provide a numeric and
qualitative basis for later studies under the Civil Service Reform Project. Moreover, it also
allowed further discussions on the respective roles and interfaces of the three ministries,
which was important in the context of an evolving liberalization policy in the sector.
8.    Lessons. Consistent with past practice, established under TA II, discussions with all
the contractors were undertaken during supervision missions, sometimes by the TM,
sometimes in conjunction with or by the sub component manager, and occasionally with the
Project Coordinator. The lessons learnt under TA II and as TA III progressed called for
significantly greater efforts to be made to explain to consulting groups the environment within
which they were operating and the possible difficulties that they might have to face in
achieving stated objectives under the TOR's. Ideally this should have been the responsibility
of the Government's project office and the main counterparts; over time they did in fact take
on more and more of this responsibility, but the consultants relied heavily on IDA supervision
to resolve both general and specific task related difficulties (e.g. questions on housing
payments, or questions relating to overcoming obstacles of inter government politics).
Another difficulty that surfaced under TA III was the question of responsibility and
accountability, on both IDA and Government's side, when a sub project was supporting a
sectoral adjustment operation, as opposed to a "macro-economically oriented adjustment
operation." In the future if "general" technical assistance operations are to provide assistance
to sector specific operations there will need to be a clear up front agreement, on the divisions
of responsibility. This has led to adoption of the concept of the
"sub project manager", which clarifies operating procedures governing the letting of contracts,
reporting, and invoicing. Finally, and most importantly, the consultants need to understand
the role their performance can play in the overall dialogue between Government and IDA.
The duality of roles-- Government as the contracting party; IDA as supervisory party of the
project--can become extremely difficult if not anticipated and dealt with openly at the
commencement of an assignment.
40



Table 8. Status of Covenants
Covenant                               Compliance Status
3.01 (a)  Borrower's commitment to the objectives  Compliance
of the project.
3.03     Maintain within MPED the position of    Compliance
Project Coordinator (to approve sub
projects.)
Formal requirement dropped as CIDA
3.05     Submit evidence that the Government  budget cut; alternative ad hoc financing
had secured US$2 million for financing    obtained from UNDP/EEC
of Statistics.
4.01     Maintain records. Furnish plans, reports,  Project records were properly maintained.
contracts and other project documents.
4.01 (c)  Furnish annual audit report         Accounts were audited annually.
41



Table 9. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of        FY 1987       FY 1988       FY 1989       FY 1990      FY 1991    FY 1992    FY 1993
Project Cycle
Preparation             8.0
Appraisal               6.8
Negotiation                           2.1
Supervision *                                      6.5           16.3          8.9         11.2
Total                  14.8           2.1           6.5          16.3          8.9         11.2
* It should be noted that between 1989 and 1992, supervision was undertaken in conjunction with TA H. From 1992 to closure,
supervision was undertaken in conjunction with EFMP.



Table 9. Use of Bank Resources (continued)
B. Missions 1/
Stage of Project      Month/Year      No. of Persons        Specialization           Performance             Types of
Cycle                                                 Represented 2/          Rating Status 3/         Problems 4/
Appraisal               August 1989            1                  PSM                        I
Supervision           November 1989            1                  PSM                        1
Supervision            January 1990            1                  PSM                        1                     M
Supervision              June 1990             1                  PSM                        1                    M
Supervision            October 1990            1                                             1
Supervision            February 1991           1                                             1                    M/l
Supervision              May 1991              1                                             1                    M/I
___________________   A ugust_199 1   _______________                             __________________
Supervision              July 1992             1                                             1
Supervision             March 1993             1                                             1                    M
June 1993
Supervision           September 1993           2                PSM/TA                       1
KEY:    Cons=Consultant, PA=Project Advisor, PSM=Public Sector Management Officer, TA=Technical Assistance Advisor.
1 = Minor problems, 2 = Moderate problems, 3 = Major problems.
I = hnpact, M = Management.



