Document Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
C+Z   /C75,-~~~~~~. CGr-
Reput No. 7221-UG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
July 26, 1988
Country Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
lis docomen has a tmbicted disributionnd may be ued by redpien ody in fte perfomance of
tdhr offiial dutles. Its owtets may not otherwise be dicosed without World Bank auhorition.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      -       Uganda Shillings (USh) 150.001
USh 1.00            -      US$ 0.0067
SDR 1.00           -       US$ 1.31062
USS 1.00            m      SDR 0.7630
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1    -    Ji-ae 30
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission of February
1988 comprising Mrs. Anne Vaughn, Mr. K. Ikramullah and Mr. Gosta Westring.
Mr. Glynn Cochrane, Consultant, also contributed to the work of the
mission.
1 After the currency reform and exchange rate adjustments of July 1, 1988.
2 At June 30, 1988.



FOR OFFICIAL US ONLY
UGANDAs THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
SIDA              Canadian International Development Agency
CTB               Central Tender Board
FIS               Financial Information System
EAU               Economic Analysis Unit, Ministry of Finance
ERP               Economic Recovery Program
LCB               Local Competitive Bidding
MPED              Ministry of Planning and Economic
Development
MPSCA           ' Ministry of Public Service and Cabinet Affairs
PIES              Public Industrial Enterprise Secretariat
PPF               Project Preparation Facility
UCS               Uganda Computer Services
UNCTAD            United Nations Commission on Trade and
Development
UNDP              United Nations Development Programme
This document hss a restricted distributon sad may be used by recipients only in the pefomance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoration.



UGANDAs THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.       BACKGROUND                                               4
A.  Introduction                                         4
B.  Overview of the Economy                              4
II.      SECTORAL CONTEXT                                         5
A.  Experience under Previous Technical
Assistance Credits                                 6
B.  UNDP Planning Assistance Projects                    8
C.  Other Public Sector Management Activities            8
D.  Government Accounts and Financial Information        9
System
E.  The Budget Process                                  10
F.  Government Procurement Functions                    10
G.  Management of the Recovery Process                  11
III.     PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION                      12
A.  Financial Information System                        13
B.  Budget Reform                                       14
C.  Rationalization of Government Procurement           14
D.  Special Advisory Services                           15
E.  Statistics Rehabilitation                           16
F.  Policy and Planning in the Agricultural
Sector                                           17
IV.      PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT                17
A.  Project Costs                                       18
B.  Financing Plan                                      18
C.  Procurement                                         18
D.  Disbursements                                       19
E.  Accounts and Audit                                  19
V.       PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                  19
VI.      BENEFITS AND RISKS                                      20
VII.     AGREEMENTS                                              21
ANNEXES
1. Project Activities by Responsibile
Institution
2. Project Costs by Category
3. Training Summary
4. Terms of Reference
MAP 18540R



UGANDA
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit Summary
Borrowert               The Republic of Uganda
Credit Amounts          SDR 13.8 million (US$18.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard, with 40 years maturity
Proiect
Description:            The project would begin the rehabilitation of the
Government's essential administrative and management
functions in the key economic ministries and
increase the Government's capacity for scund
financial management and economic analysis. It will
include components designed to: a) restore the
computerized Government accounting system and
develop an integrated financial information system;
b) strengthen the Government's budeet process; c)
rationalize the Government's procurement process; d)
develop the requisite data base for the
implementation and monitoring of the economic
recovery process and subsequent development
programs; e) support a program to encourage the
return to government service of highly qualified
expatriate Ugandans; and f) provide logistical
support and advisory services in support of critical
economic recovery program tasks. The six-year
project would finance both local and international
consultants, in-country and overseaa training,
resettlement costs for returning Ugandans who will
take up key positions in the government service,
office equipment, vehicles and operating and
maintenance costa. Overall project coordination and
administration would be provided by the Ministry of
Planning for Economic Development which has
effectively carried out this function under the
First and Second Technical Assistance projects. A
parallel project, financed by the UNDP, is providing
support to economic planning.



-2-
Estimated Costs                                    (USS '000
Local       Foreign        Total
A. Financial Irformation System       779.1        2,482.7      3,261.8
B. Budget Reform                      143.8        2,035.4      2,179.2
C. Economic Analysis Unit             264,2          337.9         602.1
D. Statistics Rehabilitation          288.1        1,244.7      1,532.8
E. Implementation of ERP               73.4        4,406.6      4,880.0
F. Supplies DirectoratelCTB           188.7        3,254.3      3,443.0
G. Agricultural Secretariat           114.8        1.734.6      1,879.4
Baseline Costs                   1,882.1      15,496.2      17.378.3
Physical Contingencies              70.6       1,196.3       1,266.9
Price Contingencies              2,671.9       1,762.3       4,481.5
Total Project Costs              4.671.9      18,454.8      23,126.7
FinancinR Plan                         Local        Foreign      Total
IDA                          1.5          16.5          18.0
CIDA                           .0          2.0           2.0
Government                   3.0           --            3.0
Total                        4.5          18.5          23.0
Estimated Disbursements: (US$ million (IDA FY)
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Annual            0.6     3.6      4.8     4.5      2.6     1.5      0.4
Cumulative        0.6     4.2      9.0     13.5    16.1    17.6    18.0



-3-
Proiect Benefits
and Risks:              The Project would help the Ugandan Government remove
major institutional obstacles to effective
implementation of the recovery program and start a
process of rehabilitating the administrative
infrastructure and institutional environment
essential to sustain economic recovery. The major
risks associated with the project are the difficulty
of sustaining institutional reforms in the face of
inadequate civil service remuneration, and
resistance to reform on the part of government staff
who benefit from the current lack of fiscal
discipline and budgetary control. To offset these
risks, the present Government has initiated a number
of measures to reduce the size of the civil service,
to restore discipline, and to increase wages for
remaining employees.  Intensive local and foreign
training exercises are included in the project to
enhance operational skills, motivate staff, and
support effective operations of the improved
financial management and information system.
Improvement of working conditicns through the
provision of adequate supplies and logistical
support under the proposed project will also
increase morale and productivity in the units
affected.
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.



UGANDA
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I - BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.       The project originated from a Government request for assistance in
support of their efforts to carry out an extensive program of economic
recovery. During a preliminary mission in March 1987, an assessment was
made of the Government's institutional capacity to implement the recovery
program and to sustain the recovery process. The project was prepared by
the Government with the assistance of two preparation missions, in HaylJune
1987 and October/November 1987, and appraised in February 1988. The major
policy actions to be taken by Government were agreed in the context of the
Policy Framework Paper and the Economic Recovery Credit (Credit 1844-UG)
and are incorporated in the Economic Recovery Program President's Report.
A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of USS 600,000 was approved in April
1988. PPF funding is being used to provide start-up assistance to the
Economic Analysis Unit in the Ministry of Finance, for preparatory studies
related to public enterprise reform, and for initial operations of an Open
General Licensing System which will help optimize the allocation of foreign
exchange.
Overview of the Economy
2.       At independence, in 1962, Uganda had one of the strongest and most
promising economies in Sub-Saharan Africa. With favorable climatic and
soil conditions, the agricultural sector was able to provide ample food to
feed the population as well as generate foreign exchange. The industrial
sector, although small, supplied the economy witb- basic inputs and consumer
goods and contributed foreign exchange through exports of textiles and
copper. Despite the disadvantage of being a land-locked country. Uganda
shared access to an effective network of railway, port and airline
facilities through common services with Kenya and Tanzania. Its abundant
potential for hydro-electric development was already being harnessed.
3.       The initial yeare after independence clearly demonstrated the
economic potential of the country. Real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew
by 5.8 percent per annum from 1963 to 1970, the country maintained a
reasonable savings rate permitting the implementation of an investment
program without undue pressure on domestic prices or the balance of
payments, and export earnings were more than adequate to cover import
requirements. However, starting in 1970, a decade of political turmoil and
gross economic mismanagement radically changed the situation. Real GDP
declined by about 20 percent during the 1972-1978 period and an era of
extensive economic, social and political disruption culminated in the 10?9
war.



4.       In the 1981-84 period following the overthrow of the military
regime, the Uganda Government made positive progress towards economic
recovery. From mid-1984, however, there was a marked deterioration in
economic performance and a worsening of the political situation. In
January 1986, the National Resistance Army, after a brief but intense war,
took control of the country, but persistent political destabilization
coupled with the pursuit of inappropriate economic policies continued to
inhibit the revival of the economy. Sirce 1986, the Uganda Government has
taken major steps to re-establish peace and security and to rehabilitate
the economy. In March 1987, the Government agreed to the first year of an
economic program to be supported under the Structural Adjustment Facility
and an action program to revitalize the recovery process supported by an
Economic Recovery Cred3.t. Subsequently, the Government initiated a series
of policy measures including appropriate exchange rate and pricing policies
and measures to restore price stability and limit the budgetary deficit.
5.       The objective of the Government's Economic Recovery Program is to
achieve a rapid overall economic recovery and set the stage for sustained
economic development. More specifically, the program aims at restoring
price stability in the economy and a sustainable balance of payments
position, improving capacity utilizstion in the productive sectors,
rehabilitating existing infrastructure and the installed capacity,
restoring adequate incentives to producers through appropriate pricing
policieR and the use of markets, and improving public sector resource
mobilization and allocation.
;I - SECTORAL CONTEXT
6.       The sustainability of the Government's economic recovery program
will depend, in part, upon the administrative capacity of the public sector
-- and particularly the core ministries; i.e. Finance, Economic Planning
and Development and Public Service -- to implement policy decisions,
monitor and analyze their impact, and recommend corrective measures when
required. The public sector, however, has been weakened by years of
political instability and economic decline. Although the Government has
been able to retain a core of well-educated, competent mid-level staff in
spite of inadequate salary levels and an unstable political environment,
lack of basic equipment and supplies, the destruction of buildings and loss
of vehicles, and the inability to restore discipline have led to a
breakdown of most of the fundamental systems for the maintenance of orderly
government.
7.       The institutional decline has had a particularly serious impact on
the core economic agencies which are the agencies with primary
responsibility for implementation and follow-up of the wide-ranging
economic reform program. The restoration of the Government's
administrative and management capacity will entail a sustained effort over
a relatively long term. The dilemma faced by the Government in
implementing the economic recovery process is that improved functioning of
the public sector is, to a large extent, dependent upon the anticipated
benefits of the recovery itself (i.e. adequate public sector salaries,
availability of complementary inputs), while implementation of the recovery
program makes immediate and heavy demands upon its existing management
capacity. Therefore, the Bank Group strategy for strengthening public
sector management in Uganda is to restore the essential functions and



- 6 -
processes in the Ministries of Finance and Planning and Economic
Development through the provision of technical assistance in the short-term
while, at the same time, establishing the foundation fcr the longer-term
development and reform of government institutions.
8.       Restoration of the Government's capacity to formulata and
implement its development program and to carry out the basic administrative
and management functions of sound government will requires a) the ability
to sustain political and economic stability over a long period, and b)
implementation of a broad program of public sector reforms aimed at re-
establishing the efficient operations of government in a cost-effective
manner. The present Government has been successful in restoring relative
peace and stability to the country and has undertaken a number of measures
to stabilize the economy. However, the virtual collapse of the public
sector institutions as functioning agencies over the last two decades,
presents the Government with a formidable task of reconstruction and reform
of the entire public sector. The first priorities of such a program must
be to:
(a)   restore discipline, accountability and efficiency in the
public sector;
(b)   improve public sector resource mobilization and allocation;
(c)   improve the quantity and quality of information available
for analysis and decision making in the financial and
economic spheres and strengthen the capacity to utilize this
information effectively and;
(d)   restore effective expenditure controls and reduce the drain
on the Government's budget of inefficient and non-productive
activities.
The Ministries of Finance, Planning and Economic Development, Public
Service and Cabinet Affairs as well as the Bank of Uganda will have the
primary roles in initiating, guiding and monitoring economic recovery and
development. The three ministries will also have the leadership role in
initiating the necessary reforms in the public sector as a whole. Thus,
rebuilding the capacity of these ministries is crucial to both the economic
recovery program and to the longer term rehabilitation of the public
sector.
Experience Under Previous Technical Assistance Credits
9.       The First Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1077-UG) for USS
8.0 million was appraised at a time when the Government of Uganda was
embarking upon a rehabilitation program to revive the economy after the
fall of the Amin regime in 1979. The primary objectives of the project
were to assist the Government in preparing rehabilitation and development
projects. In order to respond to pressing needs for a broad range of
rehabilitation requirements, the project was designed as a technical
assistance fund to be allocated according to an agreed procedure as
specific needs were identified and suLbprojects prepared and submitted for
appro7al.



10.      In spite of the marked deterioration in political stability which
slowed subproject implementation and disbursements, the project succeeded
in establishing a strong pipeline of new investment and rehabilitation
projects which were closely linked to the Bank's lending program. The
institution building objectives, however, were not achieved. The capacity
of individual agencies to prepare and of MPED to review and analyze
subproject proposals remained weak with no substantial improvement during
the project period.
11.      The Second Techltical Assistance Project (Credit 1434-UG) for
approximately US$ 15.0 million retained the flexible deeign of the first,
while placing a greater emphasis on institutional development and
strengthening of the core ministries. The project supported the
establishment of the Agricultural Secretariat in the Bank of Uganda and
financed the Secretariat's Agricultural Task Forces which were responsible
for formulating recommendations on agricultural pricing and for preparing a
comprehensive and systematic agricultural development strategy which would
serve as a framework for government and donor investment. The Agricultural
Secretariat now plays a major role in planning and policy formulation in
the agriculture sector and is highly regarded both within Government and by
the donor agencies. Support for the work of the Agricultural Secretariat
will be continued under the proposed project.
12.      The Second Technical Assistance project elso initiated a
statistical rehabilitation program which will establish basic economic
statistics and the infrastructure required to collect them. The statistics
rehabilitation program was more seriously affected by the security problems
than were other aspects of the planning assistance program. Lack of safe
access to many parts of the country prohibited the carrying out of routine
statistical surveys and the hazards of travel between the Statistics
Department in Entebbe and Government ministries in Kampala hampered access
even to the data produced as the by-product of administration. As a
result, implementation of the statistics project was delayed by more than
two years and basic data on the ecenomy is still not available to decision
makers. Dramatic improvements in the security situation have now made it
possible for the Statistics Rehabilitation program to go forward. A
Household Budget Survey is being undertaken and a five-year work program
for the Statistics Department has been agreed which is expected to bring
about a significant improvement in knowledge of the performance of Uganda's
economy and its principal sectors.
13.      The project also initiated a public service improvement program
under the leadership of the Ministry of Public Service and Cabinet Affairs.
The program was intended to strengthen the capacity to MPSCA to carry out
its personnel management functions and to improve the administrative
management services within Government ministries and departments. Under
this program, a review of functional and staff requirements has been
launched which will encompass those ministries employing 60 percent of
government employees. This basic information will -ovide the basis for
subsequent programs to streamline the civil service -nd limit the wage
bill. Progress under this program has been slow, with initial
implementation of the work program delayed by about two years, primarily as
a result of the civil war in 1985 and subsequent changes in Government
which made it difficult to reach a consensus on the direction of reform in
the public sector.



The UNDP Plannina Assistance Proiects
14.      Support for the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development has
been provided since 1979 by UNDP under a project executed *7v the World
Bank. Although security problems and the unstable political environment
delayed its full implementation until July 1985, the project has had a
significant and positive iapact on the capacity of MPED for planning and
monitoring of the economy. Under the project, systems for monitoring the
implementation of approved development programs, budgets and projects were
established, a medium-term development program was prepared, and systems
for identification and evaluation of projects as well as criteria for
priority ranking of projects were initiated.
15.      The assistance to MPED will be continued for an additional four
years and will extend support to the planning process from plan preparation
to plan implementation. This will entail making the medium-term plan
operational through the development of annual plans; undertaking aid
monitoring as the basis for monitoring of annual and medium-term plans; and
strengthening of the planning units in the line ministries to enhance their
capacity to undortake sectoral analysis and to prepare sector inputs to the
planning documents.
Other Public Sector ManaRement Activities
16.      It is clear that technical assistance alone cannot solve the
fundamental problems faced by the Ugandan Civil Service today. While the
Government's remuneration to its employees has been claiming an increasing
share of its total budget, salary levels in the civil service are extremely
low, resulting in a demoralization of c! - servants and a deterioration in
their performance. Technical assistance -dn and is being provided to
assist the Government to carry out a review of its various functions, to
define what constitutes the core services and to recommend how these can
best be carried out.   However, major changes in recruitment, termination
and wage policies will also be required if the Government is to succeed in
its efforts to restore discipline, accountability and efficiency in the
public sector.  In this regard, a number of measures have been taken or are
under consideration within the context of the adjustment measures under the
Economic Recovery Credit includingt
(a) a census of the civil service which was carried out by
the Government and which provided, for the first time,
detailed information of the numbers of employees by type
(i.e., regular civil service, daily wage workers, temporary
employees), by ministry, by educational level, etc.  The
census results will be used to address both short and longer
term reform issues;
(b) a review of the present real value of salaries,
allowances and fringe benefits combined leading to a
structured progression toward a more eq4itable and
transparent system;



- 9 -
tc) preparation of an action plan for the gradual red'ction
of temporary staff and group employees (staff of these types
represent approximately 50 percent of government employees)
over a three year period;
(d) revision and streamlining of recruitment procedures to
prevent a recurrence of unplanned civil service expansion.
17.      The Government also intends to -undertake a program to reduce the
financial losses of its public sector enterprises through a program of
divestiture, liquidation and restructuring starting with industrial sector
public enterprises. Technical assistance for the establishment of a Public
Industrial Enterprise Secretariat (PIES) to carry out this program and
financing for the first nine months of PIES operations is being provided
under the Second Technical Assistance Credit.  A complementary project has
been appraised for IDA financing, the Public Enterprises Project, which
will continue the support of PIES operations and define and commence
implementation of a broader program of public sector enterprise reform.
18.      The on-going and proposed activities described above are aimed at
public sector management reforms in a number of important areas, i.e.
planning, civil service, and public enterprises. However, institutional
weakness on the financial management side have not been adequately
addressed. Because of its central role in macro-economic and financial
policy-making, the capacity of the Ministry of Finance for policy analysis
and formulation as well as its administrative capacity to implement policy
decisions effectively is crucial to the recovery process. The generalized
institutional decline which has affected all aspects of government has not
spared the financial agencies -- the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of
Uganda. Here, as elsewhere, there has been a severe drain of qualified
staff, loss of discipline, and a collapse of basic systems essential for
managing the country's financial resources.
19.      As a result, the government accounting system is no longer
functioning and accurate information on expenditures is not available on a
timely basis, the budgetary process is inadequate as are links between
Government's capital and recurrent expenditures, and the capacity for
policy analysis and formulation is weak. Although the Ministry has
introduced a number of measures to control expenditure, it has been unable
to halt the unsustainable drain on the Treasury resulting from the losses
of inefficient and non-viable public enterprises and from the excessive
decentralization and lack of control of government's procurement practices.
Similarly, the Bank of Uganda is experiencing serious problems in
effectively managing the exchange controls and its external debt management
functicns.
Government Accounts and Financial Information System
20.      The Government has agreed with the IMF on deficit reduction
targets and has taken the initial steps to restore financial discipline in
the public sector. In the longer term, homver, additional measures will
be necessary to increase revenue yields, stabilize central government
expenditure, and institute a strict monitoring system with regard to the
budget. All these measures require timely and accurate information on
expenditures and revenue and the abi'ity to access this information on
demand.



_ 10 _
21.      The Government Accounting System and financial information system
as a whole has collapsed. The Government Accounting System has uot
produced a balance sheet or p:ocessed an annual closing cycle for sixteen
years. System balances are mostly inaccurate, resulting in the maintenance
of parallel manual books and controls. The revenue collection departments
are experiencing similar problems as tax records, assessments, tax rosters
and collections are maintained manually with resultant errors, operational
delays and non-collection of taxes. Similarly, the Bank of Uganda is
experiencing serious problems in effectively managing the exchange
controls, banking, monitoring of balances at correspondent banks,
reconciliation of public sector financial positions with the Ministry of
Finance, and external debt management functions due to inadequate systems
and automation tools.
22.      The Treasury has purchased a mainframd computer to replace its now
defunct hardware and has started the process of re-computerizing the
Government Accounting System. However, no prioritized implementation
program has been developed, staff are inadequately trained, and the system
is not yet functioning properly. Furthermore, other urgent requirements
such as information needs of the revenue generating departments in order to
increase the collection rate and improve compliance have not yet been
addressed.
The Budgetarv Process
23.      The budget should be the Government's principal tool for ensuring
that development policies are translated into concrete actions and outputs.
Serious weaknesses in the budgetary process, however, limit the
effectiveness of the budget both as an instrument to implement Government
policies and as a mechanism for expenditure control. At present,
allocations to all ministries are decided on the basis of historical
trends, not on the basis of a review of each item's contribution to
sectoral goals. In order to keep within agreed budgetary ceilings when
revenues fall short of expectations, reductions are made across-the-board
and not on the basis of priorities or a distinction between "core, and
"non-core" items. The practice of presenting the recurrent budget,
development budget and revenue estimates separately further hinders
rational analysis of budget submissions.  Lack of coordination in the
planning and execution of recurrent and development expenditures results in
insufficient funding for operating costs associated with development
projects leading to costly delays and slowing the recovery process.
Inadequate data systems hinder the Ministry's ability to closely monitor
budgetary developments during the fiscal year and, as a consequence,
potential problem areas are not detected early enough to permit corrective
action to be taken on a timely basis.
Government Procurement Functions
24.      An important area where budget reduction and cost savings are
necessary and feasible is that of government procurement of supplies and
equipment which presently consumes a large percentage of the recurrent
budget without providing adequate supplies for efficient operations.
Government procurement and supplies management has steadily deteriorated
since 1975. Inadequate funds for supplies, maintenance and repair of



- 11 -
facilities, intermittent looting and vandalism during times of war and
civil unrest, poorly trained and constantly shifting staff, a tolerated
disregard for established rules and procedures have led to the complete
breakdown of the government's supply and procurement functions. There is a
lack of control over government supplies, regulations and policy directives
are not enforced. Excessive decentralization of purchasing has resulted in
rapidly escalating costs, unavailability of essential goods and supplies,
and duplication of non-priority items. A general lack of control and
failure to maintain records has greatly increased the ease of
misappropriation, a situation which is exacerbated by poor working
conditions and low staff morale.
25.      The Government agency with primary responsibility for the
supervision and enforcement of procurement regulations is the Central
Tender Board. The CTB is an autonomous body chaired by the Deputy Minister
of Finance. Prior approval of the Board is, in principle, required before
any government department can enter into contracts for supplies or services
above a certain limit. Under the Amin regime, the authority of the CTB was
subverted and tender board regulations were no longer enforced. In
subsequent years, the CTB lost many of its experienced staff, tender board
regulations were not up-dated and no procedures were establi'hed for
tendering and evaluation in a highly inflationary environment. As a
result, the small number of remaining staff were quickly bogged down in
renegotiating contracts as inflation made existing bids untenable. Delays
in processing through the CTB resulted in a proliferation of procurement
without CTB authority. Furthermore, the lack of audited government
accounts after 1972 rendered many of the regulations virtually
unenforcable.
26.      The Ugandan Government has long recognized the need to improve the
procurement, control and storage of government supplies. Beginning in
1980, a series of studies were carried out to analyze the problem and to
make recommendations for improvement. Although these studies consistently
recommended the creation of a central Supplies Directorate, the curbing of
excessive decentralization of procurement, and the re-establishment of the
authority of the Central Tender Board -- recommendations which were
accepted in principle by successive governments -- little positive action
was taken and the government's procurement services continued to
deteriorate.
27.      The present Government, which came to power in 1985/86, has for
the first time, taken the initiative in undertaking widespread reforms,
including the reform of government procurement. It has demonstrated its
commitment to the reform of the procurement system by replacing corrupt and
incompetent officials and approving the establishment of a Supplies
Directorate. Technical assistance has been requested to establish the
Directorate on a sound and efficient basis, and to strengthen the capacity
of the Central Tender Board to fulfill its oversight and regulatory
functions.
Management of the Recovery Process
28.      In order to improve the capacity of the Ministry of Finance to
carry out the research and analysis in policy areas critical to the
recovery process, an Economic Analysis Unit was established in January 1987



_ 12 -
reporting directly to the Minister of Finance. This Unit is responsible
for reviewing monthly trends in revenue and expenditure and to update the
fiscal year forecast in an objective fashion which will allow spending to
be adjusted in line with overall deficit targets if revenues fall short of
budgeted amounts.  The unit also monitors all Government accounts in the
Bank of Uganda and carries out special research assignments in financial
and economic areas under the direction of the Minister of Finance. The
Economic Analysis Unit is currently staffed by an Economic Adviser and four
!          research assistants, all from Makerere University.  The Minister of Finance
intends to increase the staff strength in the Unit to nine and to recruit
short-term consultants with specialized knowledge not currently available
in the public sector.
29.      Many qualified and experienced Ugandans who have the requisite
expertise to make a significant contribution to the country's recovery
program are now expatriates, having left Uganda during the long period of
instability and civil strife. With the return of relative peace and
security, a number of expatriate Ugandans are prepared to return and serve
under the present government. However, many have lost their homes as well
as land and small businesses which can provide the necessary supplement to
inadequate government salaries. To ensure that as many as possible of the
Government's skill requirements can be filled by Ugandans, the Government
intends, with assistance from the proposed project, to attract highly
qualified Ugandans from abroad by paying travel costs and a resettlement
allowance for those prepared to take up permanent positions in government
and to facilitate the contracting of Ugandan consultants for short term
assignments related to the implementation of the recovery program.
III - PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
30.      The proposed project, together with the on-going and proposed
activities in public sector management, will assist the Government to
implement the agreed adjustment measures which are essential for the
success and sustainability of the economic recovery program. It will also
initiate a public sector reform program which addresses the key management
and administrative functions and the linkages between them which are
fundamental for efficient and effective government. It will also provide a
vehicle for ensuring that the necessary linkages between the various
functions are in place. The objectives of the project are to: (a)
establish and institutionalize data collection and analysis in the Ministry
of Finance and the Bank of Uganda; (b) improve the budgeting process to
enable it to function as the Government's primary tool for translating
policy initiatives into actions and to eliminate wasteful expenditure; (c)
strengthen the capacity for financial and economic policy formulation in
the Ministry of Finance; (d) rationalize the Government's procurement
process to reduce costs; and (e) provide long and short-term advisory
services for the implementation and monitoring of the Government's Economic
Recovery Program, with a special emphasis on encouraging qualified Ugandans
currently outside the country to return in order to undertake these tasks.
Details of proposed project components are as follows:



- 13 -
Financial Information System - FIS ($4.2 million)
31.      The proposed project would finance a program to restore the
computerized government accounting system and to expand the system to
include customs and tax revenue information, external debt, foreign
assistance, and Bank of Uganda operations. In devising the program, the
existing hardware and data processing staff resources will be utilized to
the extent possible. Local consultants will be employed in support of the
program to enhance local expertise and provide a conduit for continuing
assistance. The program provides for six major activities over a four-year
period:
a) Requirements Definition Study and development of an information
technology strategy to be carried out by a management/data
processing consulting firm. This is a preliminary study to
determine priority information requirements, define data linkages,
recommend packaged software solutions to minimize costs and
implementation time frames, and design the implementation program.
It is to be financed from the on-going Technical Assistance Credit
in order to permit immediately commencement of the implementation
phase upon effectiveness of the Third Technical Assistance Credit.
Satisfactory completion of the Study will be a condition of
disbursement for the balance of the FIS component.
b) Extensive training for staff of the Ministry of Finance, Bank
of Uganda, the Uganda Computer Services, the Treasury and the
Auditor General's office in various computer-specific disciplines,
systems and procedures. The training will comprise seminars,
courses, workshops, and fellowships. A substantial allocation for
this activity has been made to ensure improvement in skills and
adequate motivation for government staff to effectively contribute
to the implementation of the new financial management processes.
c) Services of an implementation specialist for a three year
period to support and guide the overall automation exercise and
provide on-the-job training to supplement the formal training
programs.
d) Acquisition and implementation of application software packages
or, where required, custom-developed systems. This will be
accomplished through a mix of local consultants and the providers
of the financial management software and ensure continuity and
long-term technical support.
e) Procurement and installation of a mini-computer and appropriate
software at the Bank of Uganda to support its foreign exchange
controls and operations; research into public expenditure trends
and indices, and its administrative and financial management
functions. This capability would interconnect with the Ministry
of Finance systems for reconciliation and timely expenditure
authorizations, as well as with the recently installed UNCTAD
external debt system.
f) Additional memory, disk storage and telecommunication
capabilities for the mainframe computer as well as micro-computers
and related software required to extend the budgeting, revenue and
expenditure monitoring fumctions to the sector ministries.



- 14 -
32.      As indicated above, financing of the initial study (estimated cost
US $200,000) is being sought under the on-going Technical Assistance
Project.
Budget Reform (USS 2.8 million)
33.      The project will assist the Government to develop procedures for
effective linkages between the planning and budgeting process to ensure
that the Budget is consistent with the Plan and that the current and
development budgets are adequately integrated. Specifically, the project
will provide assistance to the Ministry of Finance to: (a) establish
clear, coordinated objectives and priorities for recurrent and development
expenditures over a three year horizon that are consistent with overall
Government policies; (b) develop a budget format that emphasizes the
results of public expenditure as well as the inputs; (c) allocate funds and
manpower on the basis of priorities and performance; (d) introduce
performance indicators; (e) development of a training system which supports
the budgetary reform exercise.
34.      The project will finance the services of two Budget Specialists
and short-term consultants over a three-year period (86 m/m) as well as
vehicles and office equipment. Training activities would include the
development of a training system for budget work based on the needs of
selected ministries. Standardized training materials will be developed and
tested and the new materials and procedures will be transferred to the
appropriate government training institutions.
Rationalization of Governm.ent Procurement Functions (USS 4.3 million)
35.      The proposed project will provide assistance to:  a) implement the
government's decision to establish the Supplies Directorate with an
appropriate organizational structure, legal status and budgetary base; b)
provide management services and training of supply staff during the first
three years of operations; c) strengthen the oversight and regulatory
functions of the Central Tender Board; and d) establish a computerized and
comprehensive supply management information system.
36.      The Government intends to request financing under the on-going
Technical Assistance II (Credit 1434-UG) for the services of a Procurement
Expert to clarify the roles of the Central Tender Board and the Supplies
Directorate, revise existing procurement regulations to take into account
the new Directorate, analyze the options with regard to the appropriate and
feasible extent of centralization and, to recommend the appropriate
division of responsibilities between the Directorate and other agencies
involved in procurement. Initially, the Directorate of Supplies is
expected to be responsible for the procurement of an agreed list of common
use items; e.g. building materials, vehicle spare parts, office equipment,
furniture and supplies and government stationery. Central procurement of
such items will permit the Government to take advantage of the cost savings
arising from bulk purchase and, in addition, to import directly from
suppliers rather than procurement through local traders at a considerable
mark up.



- 15 -
37.      Agreement with the Bank on the proposed work program, the list of
common use items to be procured centrally, and prec'dures for financing
procurement by the Directorate are conditions of di ursement for this
component. Once this agreement has been reached, the following activities
would be financed under the projects
I.    Strengthening of the Central Tender Board
a) advisory services to formulate and monitor public
procurement regulations;
b) fellowships for the staff of the Board;
c) preparation of manuals and teaching material to serve for
the training and guidance of all Government staff
concerned with procurement;
d) material support for Board operations.
IT. Support to the Directorate of SupFlies
a) advisory services on procurement and supplies management
including the introduction of improved, standardized
methods and documentation;
b) fellowships and specialized in-country seminars for
Directorate staff;
c) material support for purchasing operations (including
vehicles, telecommunication, micro-computers and office
equipment);
d) studies concerning options for storage and distribution of
common use items.
38.      In order to carry out the work program outlined above, the project
will finance a team of advisors and short-term consultants (178 mlm)
including specialized training staff to conduct in-country procurement and
supplies management workshops and seminars. Financing will be made
available for the local costs of approximately 25 local workshops and up to
fifteen short-term training programs abroad for staff of the Directorate
and the Central Tender Board. In addition, material support in the form of
micro-computers, software, photocopiers, and vehicles required for the
functioning of the Directorate will be provided.
Special Advisory Services for the Economic Recovery Program (USS 7.1
million)
39.      The successful implementation of the Economic Recovery Program
will depend upon the capacity of the core economic ministries to analyze
problems, recommend corrective actions and implement these recommendations.
While civil service reform and economic recovery are eventually expected to
allow the Government to attract and keep the talent it needs, it is clear
that public sector salaries will not become competitive for many years. To
overcome this manpower constraint during the recovery period, the



- 16 -
Government will have to attract qualified people from outside the civil
service to carr) out special studies and analyses related to all aspects of
the recovery program.
40.      A first step in this direction has been taken by the Ministry of
Finance by the creation of the Economic Analysis Unit (EAU) in the Ministry
with staff recruited from Makerere University. In order for the Unit to
operate effectively and achieve its objectives, it urgently requires
operational and logistical support including office machinery, micro-
computers, and vehicles as well as duty incentives and internal travel
allowances for EAU staff (all staff in the Unit are employed under standard
civil service terms and conditions). The Ministry of Finance will also
need to recruit, on a short-term basis, experts with specialized knowledge
to assist in monitoring economic performance and advise on adjustments in
economic policies required in light of new developments to ensure the
achievement of economic objectives. Funds will be made available under the
proposed project for the temporary services of Ugandan specialists
currently employed in the private sector, whether in Uganda or abroad, as
well as international consultants as required. The project will also
finance vehicles, office equipment including computers as well as the
operation and maintenance costs of this equipment. Staff allowances for up
to nine EAU staff will be financed for a three-year period, after which it
is expected that the analysis and advisory functions of the EAU will be
absorbed into the existing ministerial structure.
41.      In support of the Government's efforts to encourage the return of
expatriate Ugandans, the proposed project would finance the resettlement
costs associated with returning Ugandans who will take up Government
positions of direct relevance to the recovery program. The criteria for
eligibility would be based on the qualifications of the individual
concerned and the position to which he would be assigned. Returnees would
be reimbursed for travel costs and receive a lump-sum settling-in allowance
not to exceed US$ 2,000 equivalent. Approximately US $ 250,000 will be
allocated under the project for this purpose.
42.      In addition to the relocation assistance, the project would
finance advisory services of up to two years duration for Ugandan
consultants presently employed in the private sector or abroad to provide
technical assistance in those sectors which the government has identified
as having the highest priority for the recovery program and to assist the
key ministries in carrying out their roles in the implementation of the
program. If Ugandans with the necessary experience and qualifications were
not available, international consultants could be employed under this
component. Terms of reference, contractual arrangements and the selection
process would be acceptable to the Association.
Statistics Rehabilitation Program (US$ 2.1 million)
43.      The Second Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1434-UG) is
financing the first phase (covering the first two years) of the Statistics
Rehabilitation Program.   The first priority in the work program will be
given to collection of all data that are by-products of administration.
The census of industrial production, economic and functional classification
of government accounts and collection of price statistics will also be
undertaken in Phase I. Once basic and reliable data have been collected,



_ 17 -
Phase II (covering the following three years) will follow with work on the
preparation of the basic National Accounts tables.   Project inputs will
include financing of the Co-Director of the Statistics Department, a
contract with an appropriate "twinning agency' for short-term consultants
and training, equipment, and logistical support.
Policy and Planning in the Agriculture Sector (USS 2.5)
44.      An Agricultural Secretariat was established in 1983 with IDA
financing from an Agricultural Rehabilitation Project. The functions of
the Secretariat were to formulate, coordinate, direct and review key
policies and programs in the agricultural sector. Since its inception, the
Secretariat has played a key role in policy formulation and planning in the
agricultural sector. Under the Government's current Rehabilitation and
Development Plan, the Agricultural Secretariat is Pxpected to play a very
_rucial role in providing symmetry in pricirg, planning, resource
allocation, execution and monitoring of activities in the sector.   In
order to maintain the capacity of the Secretariat in light of continuing
shortage of experienced local staff, technical assistance will be required
for an additional four years.
45.      The proposed project will finance the services of an Agricultural
Economist, Financial Analyst and Economist/Statistician for an additional
three years (108 m/m), short-term consultants both local and international
for special reviews and studies related to policy analysis (58 m/m) and
vehicles, office equipment and computer consumable materials to enable it
to perform the following duties:
a)    monitor sectoral performance including policy and
institutional constraints;
b)    review sectoral and commodity strategies and priorities;
c)    administer policy studies for specific subsectors;
d)    undertake regular reviews of farmers' incentives and propose
producer prices;
e)    plan and monitor agricultural input requirements;
f)    monitor and evaluate agricultural projects;
g)    oversee the collection of agricultural statistics to improve
the basis for sectoral planning.
IV - PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
46.      Total project costs are estimated at US$ 23.0 million.  The
estimated foreign exchange cost is US$ 18.5 million, or 80 percent of total
costs. Base cost estimates are in July 1988 prices and converted into US
dollars using an exchange rate of US$1.0 - USh 150. Approximately US$
600,000 will be used to repay the PPF advance. Physical contingencies
amounting to 5 percent of equipment costs and 10 percent of the cost of
consultants are included. Annual inflation rates have been estimated as
follows:



-18 -
Assumed inflation rates (percent per annum)
1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994    1995
Local          60     34      17     10     10     10       10
Foreign         3      3       3      4      4      4        4
A summary of cost estimates is presented in Table 1.1 below.  Details on
project costs are given in Annex II.
Estimated Costs                                  (US$ '000
Local       Foreign       Total
A. Financial Information System      779.1       2,482.7       3,261.8
B. Budget Reform                     143.8       2,035.4       2,179.2
C. Economic Analysis Unit            264.2         337.9         602.1
D. Statistics Rehabilitation         288.1       1,244.7       1,532.8
E. Implementation of ERP              73.4       4,406.6       4,880.0
F. Supplies Directorate/CTB          188.7       3,254.3       3,443.0
G. Agricultural Secretariat          114.8       1,734.6      1,879.4
Baseline Costs                  1,882.1      15,496.2     17.378.3
Physical Contingencies             70.6       1,196.3      1,266.9
Price Contingencies            2,719.2        1,762.3      4,481.5
Total Project Costs             4,671.9      18,454.8     23,126.7
Financing Plan
47.           The proposed IDA credit of SDR 13.8 million (equivalent to
US$ 18.0 million) would finance approximately 78 percent of project costs;
this would cover approximately US$ 16.5 million of foreign costs and US$
1.5 million of local costs. Costs for local staff salaries, office space
and support, and renovation and upgrading of the UCS computer room will be
borne by the government. CIDA is expected to co-finance the project
through a grant of US$ 2.0 million for the second phase of the Statistics
Rehabilitation component. UNDP intends to provide approximately $2.9
million for a parallel project to strengthen the Ministry of Planning and
Economic Development. The World Bank will act as Executing Agency for the
UNDP project.
Procurement
48.           Consultants and experts to be financed under the project
would be selected and hired in accordance with the Bank Group's Guidelines
for the Employment and Use of Consultants.   contracts for up-grading of
computer hardware and supplerentary hardware and software for the Financial
Information System would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with World Bank Guidelines. Contracts
for furniture, equipment'and vehicles would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding except those which cannot be grouped into
contracts valued at US$100,000 or more. Such items would be procured
through LCB up to an aggregate of US$500,000. Minor items costing $20,000
or less (e.g. office supplies, computer software) would be procured by
prudent shopping up to a limit of US$400,000.



- 19 -
Procurement Method and Disbursementsl
(USS million)
Procurement Method
ICB      LCB      Other    N.A.      Total
Computers and
peripherals              0.8                                   0.8
(0.8)                                (0.8)
Civil Works                        0.05                          0.05
(0.0)                       (0.0)
Vehicles and
office equipment         0.3      0.5       0.2              10.0
(0.3)    (0.2)    (0.2)              (0.7)
Supplies, packaged
software                                    0.2               0.2
(0.2)             (0.2)
Technical Assistance                                   14.5     14.5
(12.0)   (12.0)
Training                                               3.7       3.7
(2.8)    (2.8)
Resettlement
Costs                                                0.35     0.35
(0.35)   (0.35)
Allowances                                             1.4       1.4
(0.85)   (0.85)
Counterpart
salaries                                             0.4      0.4
(0.0)    (0.0)
Operations and
Maintenance                                          0.6       0.6
(0.3)    (0.3)
TOTAL                      1.1      0.55      0.4     20.95    23.0
(1.1)    (0.2)    (0.4)    (16.3)   (18.0)
1Amounts in parentheses are IDA-financed.
Disbursements
49.           The Credit is expected to be fully disbursed in 6.5 years.
Due to the aevere disruptions in past project activities during periods of
instability and civil war, there is no standard disbursement profile on
Uganda. The average profile of 6.5 years for technical assistance projects
in the Africa region as a whole has been taken as a guideline in this case.
The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed against: 100 percent of the
cost of consultants, local or foreign, 100 percent of foreign expenditures
and 80 percent of local expenditures for training, equipment, vehicles
office supplies and materials; 90 percent of operating and maintenan
expenditures for all vehicles and office machinery purchased from the



- 20 -
proceeds of the credit; 100 percent of expenditures for resettlement costs
of expatriate Ugandans; 85 percent of staff allowances with the exception
of allowances fcr the Economic Analysis Unit staff for which disbursement
will be made against 100 percent of staff allowances for a period of three
years with the Government assuming the full cost thereafter; and 100
percent of repayment of the PPF.
50.           A Special Account of up to $700,000 would be established in
US dollars in a commercial bank, through the Bank of Uganda. The account
would be operated and maintained on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
The Account would be managed by the Project Coordinator in MPED and would
be replenished by IDA on the basis of regular monthly applications which
would be submitted promptly after Bank statements had been received from
the commercial account and satisfactorily reconciled. Payments against
contracts of less than $20,000, training programs, allowances and vehicle
operating expenses would be documented through stztements of expenditure
with the underlying documentation held available locally for inspection by
IDA supervision missions. All other expenditures would be fully documented
for prior approval by IDA.
Accounts and Audit
51.           The Government would maintain separate accounts for all
expenditures funded under the Credit. The project accounts would be
audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA, including an
audit of statements of expenditure. The audit reports, of such scope and
in such detail as IDA shall reasonably request, would be submitted to IDA
no less than six months following the end of the Government's fiscal year.
V - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
52.           Responsibility for coordination and overall project
administration will rest with the Ministry of Planning and Economic
Development. A project coordinator has been appointed and will be
responsible for:
(a)  compilation and submission to IDA of semi-annual
progress monitoring reports;
(b) disbursement and preparation of claims for
reimbursements;
(c) monitoring and management of Special Account;
(d) assisting in and monitoring tlhe procurement of goods and
services to be financed under the credit;
(e) clearance of contracts, bidding documents, short lists,
letters of invitation, proposal evaluations, etc. with the
Association; and
(f) monitoring project implementation and assisting
implementing agencies resolve bottlenecks in project
implimentation.



- 21 -
53.           Although overall project administration would be done by the
Ministry of Planning and Economic Development, each project component would
be implemented directly by the agency or department concerned. The
Ministry of Finance will assign a Team Leader/Task Manager for each of the
major project components; i.e. the Financial Information System, the budget
reform exercise, the Supplies Directorate, and the Economic Analysis Unit.
In the case of the FIS, the Team Leader would chair a Steering Committee
representing the needs and interests of the major data users and suppliers.
The Team Leaders would work in close collaboration with the Project
Coordinator in MPED and submit to MPED a semi-annual progress report for
inclusion in the overall report to the Association.
54.           Agencies requesting support from the special studies and
advisory services component would submit their proposals to MPED through
the Project Coordinator for the approval of the Review Committee. The
Review Committee would be chaired by the Permanent Secretary, MPED and
include the Secretary to the Treasury, the Permanent Secretary, MPSCA, the
Project Coordinator, and a representative from the requesting agency. A
similar procedure would be followed with regard to applications for
resettlement grants for returning Ugandans. All proposals for advisory
services and resettlement grants would be submitted to the Association for
prior approval and allocation of funds under the credit.
VI - BENEFITS AND RISKS
55.           The Project addresses a major concern shared by the
Association and the other donors which have allocated substantial resources
for Uganda's Economic Recovery Program; i.e. the administrative and
managerial capacity of the government to implement the extensive and
complex action programs necessary for the success of the recovery effort.
The Project will strengthen the core ministries through technical
assistance and a program to attract expatriate Ugandans back to their
country to contribute their skills ard experience to national
reconstruction and recovery. It will help the Ugandan Government to remove
the major institutional obstacles to effectivc implementation of the
recovery program and start a process of rehabilitating the administrative
infrastructure and institutional environment fundamental to efficient and
effective government. The major risks associated with the project are the
difficulty of sustaining institutional reforms in the face of inadequate
civil service remuneration, and resistance to reform on the part of those
who benefit from the current lack of fiscal discipline and budgetary
control. To offset these risks, the present Government has initiated a
number of measures to reduce the size of the civil service, to restore
discipline, and to increase wages for remaining employees. Improvement of
working conditions tbrough the provision of adequate training, supplies and
logistical support under the proposed project will also increase morale and
productivity in the units affected.
VII - AGREEMENTS
56.           The project supports the policy actions which have been
agreed in the context of the IDA Economic Recovery Credit. Covenants to
ensure effective implementation would be:



- 22 -
(a) The Government will continue to maintain the position of
Project Coordinator within MPED and ensure that such position
is filled by a suitably qualified Administrative Officer;
(para. 52);
(b) The Ministry of Finance will appoint team leaders to
coordinate MOF's responsbilities with regard to the
implementation of each of the following project activities:
Financial Information System, Budget Reform, Procurement
Rationalization and Economic Analysis Unit (para. 53);
(c) The Ministry of Finance will establish a FIS Steering
Committee representing the needs and interests of the major
data users and suppliers. The Team Leader selected for the
FIS will act as Chairman of this committee (para. 53);
(d) A Review Committee to be chaired by the Permanent
Secretary, MPED will be established to review all proposals
for payment of relocation grants to expatriate Ugandans and
proposals for special advisory services. All proposals
supported by the Review Committee will be submitted to the
Association for review and final approval (para. 54);
(e) The Government will submit to the Association semi-annual
reports on project progress (para. 53.a).
(f) The Government will have secured financing of not less
than US$ 2.0 million for the Statistics Rehabilitation
component by June 30, 1989.
The following would be conditions of disbursement:
(a) for the Supplies Directorate Component until IDA shall be
satisfied, after an exchange of views, on the detailed work
program for the Supplies Directorate including the division
of responsibilities between the Central Tender Board and the
Directorate, the extent of centralization, and initial budget
for the Directorate;
(b) for the Financial Information System Component until
completion of the Requirements Definition Study for the
Ministry of Finance and Bank of Uganda.
57.          Subject to the above provisions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitabl.e basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 13.8 million (US$18.0
million equivalent) to the Government of Uganda.



Annex I
Page 1 of 4
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Ageney
Activity                             Responsible                  Output/Dendlino                     Outcome
A. Financial Informtton System             Ministry of Finance and
Bank of Uganda
1. Request financing for require-          Ministry of Fi ance and        (June 1966)                    Funds available for initial study.
definition study for ministryns            WPED
computerized financial manag e nt
system.
2. Select consultants and carry out        Ministry of Finance            Contract signed (7/68)         Study and prioritized
requirments definition study.                                                                            Implementation plan availablo.
Study completed (2/69)        Proposals can be invited for
imploentation progrm.
3. Requirement definition study for        Bank of Uganda                 Study completed (2/89)         Priority requirements determined.
Bank nf 'iganda operations.                                                                              Desirable linkages to Treasury
system identified.
4. Select consultants for lplementation    Ministry of Finance           Contract sIgned (3/B9)         Impl_mentation can begin.
and support of overall automtion
xerci so.
S. Acquisition and testing/modificatlon    Ministry of Finance            Software selected (7/09)       Finance hs *ppropriate  oft-
of software packages.                                                                                    wre to implement priority
programs.
6. Procurement of computer hardware        Bank of Uganda                 Software available (11/69)    Bank of Uganda has integrated
and appropriate soft-ware package                                         Installed and operational      suits of packaged software for
for Bank of Uganda.                                                       (/90)                          accounting, exchange controls and
other priority uun as determined
by requirement  study.
7. Implementtion of system  tncluding      Ministry of Filnnco            Syst e  in us  In sccord-      Ministry of Finance has timely
generl ledger, budgeting, accounts                                       once with phas d program       information for revenue/expendi-
receivable/payable, incom tax and                                         (Start 8/89; Complot          ture estimtion and financial
inland revenue.                                                           11/93)                        mnagement decisions.
8. Acquisition of dditional mmory          Ministry of Financ             (October 1990)                 Hardware available for full
disk storage and sicrocomputers,                                                                         Implomntation of automation
exercise.
9. Training for Uganda Computer            Ministry of Finance            Progrnm available (19/09)      Understanding of the usse and
Services, Treasury and Auditor                                            Seminars/workshops to be       limitations of system, capacity
General's office In computer                                              conducted throughout           to provide required report on a
specific systems and procedures.                                          project period.               timtly besis without external
assistne.



Annex I
Page 2 of 4
Agency
Activity                              Rsonsiblo                    Output/Doodling                      Outcome
B. t3udsat Reform                           Ministry of Finance
1. Sel ct conoult nts for detalIed          Minlstry of Finance            Contract signed 9/S8.          Study carriod out. Dot iled work
design of budgetary reform program.                                                                       progrm pre_red.
2. Establish budget reform working          Ministry of Finance            Staff selected and             Mechanism to coordinate budget
group.                                                                      n gned 9/88.                  rform exreri   In plac.
a. Preparation of procedureso accout-       Working Group                  Procedures established         Linkges betwen planning  nd
bilitiws, tilefrmes for Integrated                                         12/88                          budgeting established.
annual planning and budgeting exercise.
4. Improve revenue est;mtion procedures   Ministry of Finance              Start 12/88                    ReIlstic bais for setting
to provide basis for determination of                                                                     expn diture ceilIngs.
expenditure ceilings.
S. Revielon of budget formt and             Ministry of Finance           NM  budget format 12/S9         Comprhensive and Integrated
reclasific ation ofI ine itetm.             and Working Group                                             budget document produced. Budget
formt permite evaluation of
expenditure performnc.
8. Design and Implementation of budget      Working Croup                  Flrst worksbop ready for       Incred capecity of line
workshops for 4 to 6 spending ministries                                   preentation start of FY89    ministries to prepere
on budget preparatlon and appraisl of                                      budget exorcise.               prioritized budgets.
expenditure performanc.
7. Initiation of medium-term financial      Ministry of Finance            Flrst MTFP FY91                Govt has a functioning ach-
plane in coordination with national                                                                       anim to guide budget in support
planning exercise,                                                                                        national policies.
C. Government Procuremnt                    Ministry of Finan  and
Central Tender Board (CTh)
1. Requet financing for prepartion          Ministry of Finance and WED   (June 1988)                     Financing availablo for initial
of neessry docmnts to effect n-                                                                           reiew and prearation of work
procurement centralization mesures.
2. Carry out review and prepare             Ministry of Finance            Draft regulations and          Ministry has regulations work
necessry documentation for estblish-                                       work progrm  (9/88)            progrm and  st   of initial
ment of Central Supplies Directorst.                                                                      local financing requirements
required to establish Directorate.
S. Selection of consultants for             Ministry of Finance and        Short list agred (11/S8)       Work progrm can be implemented.
Supplies Directorate and CT.                C1B                            LOI sent (11/SO)
Contract signed (2/S9)
Consultants fielded (38/9)



Annex I
-  a-                                                   Page 3 of 4
Agency
Activity                              Resoonsible                   OutputiD.adlIn.                      Outcom
4. Implement program for                    Supplies Directorate            Fi rot phas  of program         Coemon use Items procured and
centralization of procuremnt, storage                                       complote (2/91) Second         distributed on schedule.  Signifi-
and distribution of coeron us  Items.                                       phase complete (1/93)          cant savings through bulk purchaa-
ing directly from supplioro.
S. Establish proper competitive bidding     CT8                             Statutes and regulations       Gov't has competitive bidding pro-
proceduros.                                                                 enacted (21/91)                cedures which protect its
interests and which are acceptablo
to donors.
3. Introduce standardized methods,          Supplies Directorate            Supply manual (6/91)           Improved planning for tie;ly
classification and coding of all                                            Catalog (8/91)                 ordering and distribution.
mterials.                                                                   Computerized supply            Improved security and reduced
management system (1/92)       cota.
7. Training in supplios management,         Supplies Directorate            Program available (6/89)       Improved procurement practices.
stock control, procurement, warehousing,                                    Workshops and sminars          Redue d reliance on technical
distribution, and use of computer software.                                 conducted throughout           assistance.
D. Statistics Rehabilitation
1. Review progress and results achieved    WED                              Revised work progrom           Initial surveys completed and
under first phase of statistics progrm                                      prepared and agreed (1/9C)     resulta analyzed.  Preparation
and revise work progrm as noeded.                                                                          of basic tables of the national
accounts can begin.
2. Request allocation of funds              UPED                            Request approved (2/9a)        Funds available for Phane  I              n
to initiate Phase II of Statistics                                                                         work progrm.
Rehabilitation program.
3. Prepare National Accounts and            WPED                            Thre basic tables for          Data available for soundly-based
establish system for annual updating.                                       national accounts prepared     macro-economic analyss.
(2/91)
4.  Collection and analysis of dat          MPED                            Data base expanded and         Statistics Department has the
for national agricultural survey (with                                      updated.  Staff trained        capacity to prepare national
FAO) and census of industrial production.                                   and experienced in all         accounts and undertake routine
Update consumption and price                                                aspects of statistics          statistical surveys without
statistics,                                                                 work program.                  recourse to external assistance.
0. Management of the Econeomc Recovery
Prcas
Economic Analysis Unit                      Ministry of Finance
1. Request financing under PPF              Ministries of Finance          Request approved (1/8E)         Economic Analysis Unit has means
for lo rational and logistical              and Planning                    Funds deposited In             to carry out and expand its work
support to Unit and open special                                            special account (2/88)         program in support of the ERP.
account.
2. Recruitment of national                  Ministry of Finance             All national staff             Economic Analysis Unit has the
staff and consultants. Prepar                                               recruited (8/88)               capacity to carry out reserch
TOR, select, and negotiate                                                                                 into financial and economic areas
contracts.                                                                                                 to facilitate policy formultion.



Annex 1
Page 4 of 4
4 4-
Agency
Activity                               Responsible                   Output/Deadline                       Outcome
Bank of Uganda                               Research Department,
Bank of Uganda
1. Request financing under PPF               Bank of Uganda and MPED         Request approved (8/88)         Funds available to recruit.
for consultant to assist with
operation of the Open Ceneral
Licensing System.
2. Select consultant and                     Bank of Uganda                  Contract signed (8/88)          Expert assistance available
negotiate contract.                                                                                          to implement the OGL system.
3. Establish objective and officioe,4        Bank of Uganda                  System in place (12/87)         Central Bank has the capacity
system for votting price quotations                                          To be expanded quarterly.       to optimize allocation of foreign
Imported under OCL system.                                                                                   exchange. Recovery of production
in essential industries
facilitated.
4. Work program of 'he Abricultural          Bank of Uganda                  Work program completed          Cov't has permanent capacity to
Seeretariat on-going.                                                        12/92                           formulate, mc'nitor and coordinate
policies and progroms in the
agricultural sector.
OUmr coansltancle.
1. Propare TOR, Identify consultant,         Requesting ministry through    Contracts signed as required   Key ministries have necessary sup-
clear with IDA, negotiate and sign           MPED                            throughout project period.    port to implement and monitor
contract.                                                                                                    recovery program.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1
UGANDA THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
SUMMARY PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY
(USE '000)
X Foreign   X Total Base
Local      Foreign       Total        Exchange        Cots
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. EqUIPMENT                                76.1     1,689.4       1,764.6              go          10
B. CIVIL WORKS                              17.7        19.0           U8.7             62           0
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                          92.8     1,708.4       1,801.2              88          10
Physical Contingencies                         6.6        88.4           91.9             94           1
Price Conttngencleo                          188.6       161.7         298.2              64           2
TOTAL INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                  234.8     1,966.5       2,191.3              89          13
IS. RECURRENT COSTS
A. CONSULTANTS                                      11,099.0      11,099.0             100          64
B. LOCAL CONSULTANTS                       650.4                      650.4                          4
C. TRAINING                                186.7     2,860.9       2,627.6              93          1S
D. RESETTLEMENT                             60.0       125.0         176.0              71           1
E. ALLOWANCES                              610.7                     610.7                           4
F. SALARIES                                280.4                     280.4                           1
F. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                81.1       202.8         288.9              71           2
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS                        1,789.3    13,787.7      15,677.0              90          00
Physical Contingencies                          65     1,109.9       1,174.9              94           7
Price Contingencies                        2,682.7     1,600.6       4,188.8              go          26
TOTAL INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                4,487.0    16,498.2      20,985.2              79         122
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                          4,671.8    18,454.7      23,126.6              80         135



Annex III
Page 1 of 3
-28 -
UGANDA
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TRAINING PROGRAMS
The project provides for extensive training programs for staff in
the targetted ministries. Most of this training will take place in-country
in the form of seminars, work-shops and practical, job-related exercises.
Thus, while approximately US$ 3.2 million is budgeted specifically for
fellowships and seminars, a significant amount of the man/month time shown
under the category short-term consultants for disbursement purposes, will
be utilized to conduct the local seminars and workshops and should thus be
considered as training activities.  A summary description of the training
activities related to each project component in included below.
Financial Information System (PIS)
The FIS component provides training for staff of the Ministry of
Finance, Bank of Uganda. and the Auditor General's Office in various
computer-specific disciplines, systems and procedures. On-the-job training
will be the responsibility of the consultant's Implementation Special' t
who will have the dual responsibility of managing the introduction of the
FIS and of training, guiding and directing data processing and user staff
in the implementation, operation and up-dating of the system.
In addition to the on-the-job training provided by the
Implementation Specialist, the project will finance formal training both in
Uganda and abroad for the following categories of staff: managers and
supervisors; accountants and auditors; data processors, data entry and
clerical staff. A detailed training program will be finalized by the
consultants who are undertaking the preliminary Requirements Definition and
Automation Strategy Study. The tentative training program and approximate
number of participants is outlined below:
1) 3-month fellowships for data processing staff (14)
2) 1-month formal training for D.P. staff (16)
3) 1-week local course on Introduction to data
processing (40)
4) 4-week local course of Programming Language and
and Utilities (20)
5) 2-week local course on Application System software (23)
6) 1-week local course on data entry proficiency
techniques (24)
7) 3-day seminar for FIS user supervisory staff (70)
8) 2-day seminar for accountants and auditors (50)
Procurement Rationalization
A detailed training program on procurement and supplies management
is to be prepared by the consultants for review by April 1989.
Approximately half of the technical assistance to be provided to the
Supplies Directorate and the Central Tender Board will be in the form of
training, including the preparation of training materials. Each of the



Annex III
-29-                  Page 2-of 3
project activities related to the Supplies Directorate will consist of
three stages -- design, training and implementation. Thus, for example, a
classification system for all materials will be introduced, local workshops
on use of the system will be presented to all concerned staff, the system
will be then be implemented under the guidance and supervision of the
consultant, and one-day follow-up workshops will be presented as necessary
to ensure smooth system implementation and transfer of skills.
Financing will be provided for 10 two-week workshops to be
presented locally for approximately 20 participants each. In addition,
short-term fellowships will be arranged for up to ten Supplies Directorate
staff, covering the subject areas of computerized supplies management,
stock control, international competitive bidding procedures, bid evaluation
and contract negotiation.
Following the revision and updating of the procurement
regulations, the consultants for the Central Tender Board will prepare
manuals and teaching materials for the guidance of all Government staff
concerned with procurement. The staff of the CTB, with assistance from the
consultants, will prepare and carry out a series of 15 procurement seminars
for up to 25 participants each. The seminars will be based on the
materials prepared under the project and will focus primarily on
understanding and interpretation of the new procurement and financial
regulations and guidelines. Periodic training in procurement regulations
and practices will become an on-going function of the CTB which is expected
to continue after the project period. The project also makes provision for
five short-term fellowships for staff of the CTB.
Budget Reform
Of the US$2.7 million estimated for the budget reform exercise,
approximately US$ 1.0 million is specifically allocated for training. This
includes up to 60 man/months of fellowships over a five-year period to up-
grade the skills of budget officers. The major training effort, however,
is to be focussed on the budget exercise in the form of in-country seminars
timed to coincide with the budget cycle and in which concerned stafff from
each of the spending ministries would participate. The seminars would be
used to launch the annual budget exercise and, once the budget is approved,
to review the process with the aim of introducing improvements in the next
budget cycle. The seminars and follow-up workshops are to be conducted
over a four-year period. In addition to the amount specifically budgeted
for training, the budget for short-term consultants includes the
consultants who wiu. design and conduct the budget exercise seminars and
are, thus, considered as a part of the training effort. A similar series
of seminars and workshops (financed from the UNDP planning assistance
project executed by the World Bank) will be designed around the annual
planning cycle for the staff in the planning units of the sector
ministries. An important objective of these complementary and concurrent
seminars is improved integration of the planning and budgeting process.
Statistics Rehabilitation
The Statistics Department intends to enter into a twinning
arrangement with a statistical organization in an industrialized country.
The selected organization will be responsible for organizing and carrying



Annex III
Page 3 bf 3
- 30 -
out various statistical surveys, including the training of staff in survey
techniques. Staff of the Statistics Department will be sent to the
Headquarters of the "twin" organization for periods of one to three months
practical training in addition to participation in the workshops which are
to be presented in-country each year of the project period. Approximately
US$ 1.3 million has been allocated for this purpose.
Other Proiect Related Training Activities
Agricultural Secretariat: 3 short-term fellowships/study tours
Agricultural Policy and Pricing Methodology
Economic Analysis Unitt 2 fellowships, post graduate training
in Economics
Implementation Assistance to ERP: 6 short-term fellowships
(unspecified)



- 31 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 9
UGANDA THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
DEPUTY COMMISSIONER/TREASURY OFFICER OF ACCOUNTS
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Titlet Deputy Commissi er/Treasury Officer of Accounts
Location: Ministry of Finance
Duration: Two years
The Deputy Commissioner will hold an operational position in the
Treasury Department reporting to the Commissioner of Accounts. He will be
responsible for all day-to-day operational activities of the Treasury
including the clearing of government checks, work on treasury bills,
government securities, Treasury main clearance account, consolidated fund
accounts. He will also be responsible for advising on suitable on-going
training programs for government accountants. In addition to routine tasks
and response to special requests for assistance from the Commissioner and
Secretary to the Treasury, the Deputy Commissioner will:
1.    ensure compliance with instructions for the use of the Vote
Book for control of expenditures;
2.    ensure systematic recovery of advances from the Treasury
Main Clearance Account;
3.    improve procedures for timely reporting of government
accounts;
4.    improve procedures for processing of government checks,
including preparation of guidelines to ensure close
coordination among Treasury officers and strict examination
of supporting documents;
5.    support the Treasury program for the computerization of
government accounts;
6.    recomend measures to improve accounting for grant aid and
assist in implementation of agreed measures;
7.    recommend measures to curb irregularities and malpractices
in project accounts.
8.    revise and up-date Treasury Accounting Instructions.



- 32 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 9
UGANDA THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Positiont     Industrial Engineering Advisor for Operation of
Open General Licensing System
Locations    Bank of Uganda
Duration:     One year
During registration and vetting of applications for inclusion on
the Open General Licence, together with its operation, a number of inter-
related actions, information recording and analysis are necessary to ensure
a functional, objective and fully effective control system. Taking into
account these criteria and the manual forms already created, the following
terms of reference are to be carried out by the Industrial Engineering
Advisor:
1.    Maintain and circulate to relevant Ministries a specific
schedule of approved materials included in the OGL using
extended (six digit) SITC codes;
2.   Validate all applications from companies for inclusion in
OGL ensuring an objective assessment of every application;
3.    Ensure all materials requested by companies for inclusion in
OGL are a legitimate import for the manufacturing process;
4.    Maintain an efficient system of price monitoring for all raw
materials imported under OGL investigating any price
variation in excess of +5Z;
5.    Compare and report adverse variation of projected and actual
conversion of raw materials to finished product exceeding
+5z;
6.    Prepare and circulate a weekly, monthly and quarterly report
of the actual financial commitment under OGL;
7.    Operate an effective system to monitor the change in value
of inventories of the OGL registered companies investigating
and reporting on any changes in excess of 1OX for a
particular product;
8.    Develop and maintain a management system to provide an
economical and efficient method of recording, monitoring and
reporting on the OGL operation;
9.    Establish staffing levels and operational hierarchy for the
OGL section of the Bank of Uganda;



_ 33 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 9
10.    Devwlo.t frow -l'C:  initial manual system, a personal computer
baszect c'rztrol  y/aterm using database and spread sheet
program;
11.    Establish li;   with the Ministry of Industry, Trnaiury,
Customs and -  ise  commercial banks, OGL registrants, and
other relevan* bodies.
Qualifications
A suitable consultant will have a wide experience of industrial
manufacturing processes, material requirements, planning, organization and
methods. Experience in procurement and inventory control in manufacturing
companies is also required together with computer literacy. As L'U
assignment will require considerable liaison with Government, banking and
business sectors, the ability to operate without personal conflict a.d
promote harmonious relations will be important.



- 34 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 9
UGANDA THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
CONSULTANCY ON BUDGET REFORM
Titles Consultancy Services for Budget Reform
Locations Ministry of Finance
Durations 3 months (Consultant input - 6 man/months)
The consultants will carry out a comprehensive review of the
Government's budgeting procedures and budget format including:
1.    review of budget structure, including budget categories,
methods of preparation of recurrent and capital budgets and
linkages between the two;
2.    methods and capacity to adequately forecast likely amount of
available resources both for current budget year and
estimation for future years;
3.    capacity to assess cost of policy decisions concerning such
issues .a wage increases, subsidies, domestic borrowing,
etc.;
4.    procedures for initiating annual budget cycle including
preparation of budget guidelines, coordination with MPED and
Public Service Commission;
5.    capacity of spending ministries to prepare budget
submissions, adequacy of existing procedures including
coordination with the Ministry of Finance;
6.    review of financial instructions and standing orders to
ensure that there are no hindrances to budgetary reform
exercise;
7.    procedures for budget releases, data required to permit
budget releases and capacity to analyze information
provided;
8.    review of current staffing in terms of numbers, relevant
experience and qualifications.
In light of this review, the consultants will recommend
appropriate measures to introduce budget reforms, including changes in
structure, organization, procedures, and staffing. The consultants' report
will be submitted to Government for review within 45 days of the start of
the assignment. The consultants' report will be submitted to the Bank and



- 35 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 9
to the Government for review and comment. Following agreement on the
recomuendations and the incorporation of any necessary modifications, the
consultants will prepare a detailed action program to implement the
reforms. The action program, which will be submitted three months from the
start of the assignment, will include priorities, time scale, costs,
technical assistance and training requirements.



- 36 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 9
UGANDA
THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
AGRICULTURAL SECRETARIAT
Titles Agricultural Economist
Location: Agricultural Secretariat. Bank of Uganda
Duration: Three years
The Agricultural Economist will act as a member of a multi-
disciplinary team and be assigned specific duties from time to time by the
Agricultural Policy Committee and the Director of the Agricultural
Secretariat. He will work closely with the national Agricultural Economist
assigned to the Agricultural Secretariat in carrying out the following
activitiess
1.   Undertake regular studies to assess the true costs of
production processing and marketang of major export crops in
Uganda (coffee, tea, cotton, tobacco and food crops)
including estimates of tax subsidies, the degree to which.
farmers use hired labor and purchase inputs and draft animal
power and other forms of mechanization in the production of
major export crops;
2.    Review periodically producer prices and incentives for major
export crops relative to competing crops and consumer
commodities and prepare pricing proposals with
recommendation as to the ways in which the unit costs can be
reduced and efficiency increased in production, processing
and marketing of the major export crops;
3.    Carry out sectoral,sub-sectoral and commodity studies on on-
going basis and advise the Agricultural Policy Committee in
formulating strategies, priorities ar.d policies for resource
allocation and development;
4.    Undertake regular review of commodity outlook, price and
market prospects for major agricultural commodities to
provide analytical basis for government's agricultural
pricing and marketing policies;
5.    Carry out special studies including comparative advantage,
feasibility studies, farm model/efficiency studies, etc. to
provide basic data and assist in agricultural project
planning tasks;



- 37 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 9
6.    Provide technical and analytical support to APC commodity
sub-committees (coffee, cotton, tea, food crops, livestock,
etc.) to monitor and evaluate sub-sectoral performance and
constraints and devise appropriate strategies and policies.



- 38 -
ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 9
UGANDA THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
AGRICULTURAL SECRETARIAT
FINANCIAL ANALYST
Title: Financial Analyst
Location: Agricultural Secretariat, Bank of Uganda
Duration: 3 years
The Financial Analyst will work closely with the Ugandan Financial
Analysts assigned to the Agricultural Secretariat as a part of a multi-
disciplinary team and will be involved in all the tasks assigned to him by
the Agricultural Policy Committee and the Director of the Agricultural
Secretariat. The Financial Analyst will also be responsible for the
following:
1.    To analyze periodically the processing and marketing margins
of major crops and advise the Agricultural Policy Committee
on the cost effective measures to reduce cost and increase
efficiency in crop processing and marketing;
2.    To prepare regular reviews/assessments of the price
structure of major export crops with a view to ensure
appropriate incentives to producers and processors. He will
also analyze the foreign exchange and budgetary implications
of such a review/proposal;
3.    To critically analyze and review the budget and performance
of processors and marketing boards and to advise the
Agricultural Policy Committee on budgetary and financial
policies relating to the operation of the agricultural
parastatals (CMB, LMB, PMB, UTA, UTGC, etc.). He will
advise these parastatals on financial matters with emphasis
on increasing their capacity to allocate, administer and
utilize local and foreign currency resources;
4.    To project crop finance and working capital finance
requirements of different agricultural sub-sectors, both at
the macro and micro levels and advise on the most efficient
and economic system of crop financing arrangements;
5.    To be involved, as part of the multi-disciplinary team, in
sub-sector studies and assist in the formulation and
financial appraisal of investment projects. To advise the
APC on the financial viability of major investment projects
in the agricultural sector;
6.    To monitor and review resources allocated to the
agricultural sector.



- 39 -
ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 9
UGANDA THIRD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
AGRICULTURAL SECRETARIAT
ECONOMIST/ STATISTICIAN
Titles Economist/Statistician
Locations Agricultural Secretariat, Bank of Uganda
Duration:  3 years
The duties and responsibilities of the Economist/Statistician in
the Agricultural Secretariat will be as followss
1.    To provide the data base for the Agricultural Secretariat
and to develop the computerized data base;
2.    To collect and reconcile data from primary and secondary
sources and analyze the data for use by other units of the
Agricultural Secretariat, and to prepare policy papers to
enable the Agricultural Policy Committee to monitor the
performance and prospects of the agricultural sector;
3.    To develop methods of data analysis; i.e., statistical,
economietric. mathematical, etc. to facilitate quick analysis
of data for economic modelling and policy analysis;
4.    To collect data on cost/price relationships for use in costs
of production and pricing, and for any specific requests by
the Agricultural Policy Committee;
5.    To make projections on demand and supply for Uganda's
agricultural commodities with specific reference to inter-
regional deficits and surpluses, food balance sheets and
exportable surpluses, and to advise the APC on the policy
implications (e.g. barter trade, internatioral trade and
other bilateral arrangements);
6.    To work closely with the Farm Hanagement Unit in the
Ministry of Agriculture in construction and up-dating of
farm models for analysis of regional costs of production and
use of technological inputs and labor;
7.    To participate in the Steering and Technical Committees of
the National Agricultural and Livestock Census, and the
Household Budget Survey in devising, testing and
implementing the basic surveys and annual surveys for
strengthening the statistical basis for sectoral planning.



3s'~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
''.,g S     U      D     A      N        /            
UGANDA                                                               t 
RajorRoads                                                                                              A ROT 
-   Moior Roods                    Ay    -                                          KI TOUMVff\   ITU       KOT/g7
_  Roilroods                    }   C Ah-2g t                            <,      >KroumI           |  
-3-       -  Rivers                                                 J                                               KOTIDO I                       a
* District Capitol$
District Boundaries
Intmrnational Boundari.-
o    2s   5O   75  100 KILOMITEIS
o 20 io oo tilLC5  )    4 M/L S                                     APAC.
2                                                          (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APA%  2d
.   ft   /    ,'   IVD,
/  H O  M *-                     aesnoc-APNRA 
1*LUER~                                                                              jtI  j  MP/GpRuNO          - ( --LrO
~~~~~~~-~~~~U~N!ED                                                    so,;kI           JA       5            f     (     mtre w .Z-W ( V/fi--  35
.   ,    F                                !      y2>MA5$AKA             -         -j                         SUA          JjUT
A j : SHEA/j              M0ARARA <, -  'v RAETIOI K-
KASAdg~AKA >f                                                      I            I           t           KENYA
A KA2t /  *ANT    A            N     Z     A      N    I   A                           C  TANZANtA         ,
j~     '..d' RWANOA    ,1        S1.                                             as.                    (ZAJMCI>. 
AUGUST 1S



