OFFICIAL
JDOCUMENTS!
CREDIT NUMBER 1951 UG
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Technical Assistance Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1988


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1951 UG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      #Aede&/t/   1988, between THE REPUBLIC
OF UGANDA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, being satisfied of the feasibility and
priority of the Project ,described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower on the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions), constitute an integral pa:t of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth, and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) "MPED" means the Borrower's Ministry of Planning and
Economic Development;
(c) "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
(d) "MPSCA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Service
and Cabinet Affairs;
(e) "BOU" means the Bank of Uganda, the Borrower's Central
Bank; and


﻿-2-
(f) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters, dated February 3, 1988; April 13, 1988;
and May 3, 1988, between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms a.d conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 13,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account, in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars, through the Bank of Uganda, a
special account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not


﻿withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue:
(i) from a date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled;
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30
in each year shall be applied as of the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06
of this Agreement, except that the rate set as of
June 30, 1988, shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid:
(i) at such places as the Association shall reasonably
request;
(ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions
or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a.) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15


﻿-4-
commencing February 15, 1999, and ending August 15, 2028. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on August 15,
2008, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b) Whenever:
(i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985-dollars for five (5)
consecutive years; and
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy
for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and, after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through
MPED, with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with
appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and, except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services,
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall continue to maintain the
position of Project Coordinator within MPED and shall, at all
times, ensure that such position is filled by a suitably qualified
administrative officer whose terms  f reference shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
Section. 3.04. The Borrower shall, no later than June 30 and
December 31 of each year, submit to the Association semi-annual
reports of Project performance.
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall, by July 31, 1989, submit
evidence to the Association that the Borrower has secured the
equivalent of not less than $2,000,000 for the financing of Part E
of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance


﻿-6-
with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section, including those for the
Special Account for each fiscal year, audited in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six (6) months after
the end of eah such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) as evidence of
such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and


﻿- 7 -
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section, and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure, submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their pre-
paration, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 8147
Kampala
Uganda
Cable address:                     Telex:
FINSEC                         61170
Kampala


﻿-8-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
By         Akt              *
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By4 /dei                ./,14cl
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Equipment,                                  100% of foreign
vehicles,                                  expenditures and
materials and                              80% of local
supplies:                                  expenditures
(a) Supplies                150,000
Directorate and
Central Tender
Board
(b) Financial               500,000
Information
System
(c) Other                   230,000
(2) Training                   1,380,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(3) Consultants'                                100%
services:
(a) Supplies              1,700,000
Directorate and
Central Tender
Board


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(b) Financial               960,000
Information
System
(c) Other                 4,810,000
(4) Operating                    200,000        90%
and maintenance
expenditures
(5) Resettlement                 130,000        100%
of Expatriate
Ugandans
(6) Staff allowances
for:
(a) Economic                100,000        100%
Analysis
Unit
(b) Other                   190,000        85%
(7) Refunding of Project         470,000        Amount due
Preparation Advance                        pursuant to
Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(8) Unallocated                2,980,000
TOTAL
13,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country, other than that of the Borrower, for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;


﻿- 11 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) "operating and maintenance expenditures" means
expenditures for vehicles and office machinery purchased from the
proceeds of the Credit.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) expenditures of the Supplies Directorate and the Central
Tender Board, under Categories (1) (a) and (3) (a), unless the
Association is satisfied with:
(i) the detailed work program of the Directorate,
including the division of responsibilities between
the Directorate and the Central Tender Board; and
(ii) the extent of centralization and the initial budget
appropriated to the Directorate;
(c) expenditures of the Financial Information System, under
Categories (1) (b) and (3) (b), unless a requirements definition
study for MOF and BOU has been completed; and
(d) expenditures, under Category 6 (a), made after June 30,
1991.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
carrying out a comprehensive and integrated public sector reform
program required to implement its Economic Recovery Program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Financial Information System
Establishment and institutionalization of data collection and
analysis in MOF and BOU through:
(1) studies and development of an information technology
strategy, including guidance on a long-term computer
procurement policy;
(2) training, including seminars, courses, workshops and
fellowships;
(3) consultants' services;
(4) acquisition and implementation of computer software
packages, including custom-developed systems;
(5) acquisition and installation of a mini-computer,
including appropriate software, at BOU; and
(6) improvement of memory, disk storage and telecommunica-
tion capabilities of MOF's computers, and acquisition of
micro-computers and related software for the Borrower's
sector ministries.
Patt B:   Budget Reform
Strengthening MOF's budgeting process through:
(1) consultants' services and the acquisition of vehicles
and office equipment; and


﻿- 13 -
(2) training, including development of training materials.
Part C:   Rationalization of Procurement Functions
(1) Strengthening the Central Tender Board through consul-
tants' services, training, preparation of manuals and
teaching materials on procurement, and acquisition of
equipment and supplies.
(2) Strengthening the Directorate of Supplies through con-
sultants' services, training, studies, acquisition of
telecommunication, micro-computer and office equipment,
and vehicles.
Part D:   Advisory Services for the Economic Recovery Program
Strengthening the ability of the Borrower's key ministries to
implement the Borrower's Economic Recovery Program through:
(1) consultants' services;
(2) logistical and operational support to the Economic
Analysis Unit of MOF;
(3) recruitment of Expatriate Ugandans; and
(4) acquisition of vehicles and office equipment, including
computers.
Part E:   Statistics Rehabilitation PrograM
Continuation of the Statistics Rehabilitation Program through
consultants' services, training, equipment and logistical support.
Part F:   Strengthening of the Agricultural Secretariat
Strengthening the policy formulation and planning
capabilities of the Borrower's Agricultural Secretariat through
experts' and consultants' services, studies and acquisition of
vehicles, equipment and materials.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.


﻿- 14-
.SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Furniture, equipment and vehicles shall be grouped together
in bidding packages to the maximum extent practicable.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Furniture, equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   Items or groups of items, estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $400,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
from a list of at least three suppliers in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid, proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of each such contract, required to be


﻿- 15 -
furnished to the Association pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contracts.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contracts are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of each such contract, together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, shall be furnished to
the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ experts and consultants whose
qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures,
satisfactory to the Association, on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The
World Bank as Executing Agency", published by the Bank in August
1981.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.   The implementation and coordination of the Project shall be
carried out by MPED through a Project Coordinator whose
responsibilities will include:
(a) monitoring Project implementation and providing
assistance to other agencies directly responsible for the
implementation of Project activities, including assistance in:
(i) procuring goods and services in accordance with
applicable rules and regulations; and
(ii) obtaining all necessary approvals for the prompt
processing of withdrawals from the Credit; and
(b) compiling and submitting semiannual Project progress
reports to the Association.
2.   MOF shall appoint team leaders to coordinate each of MOF's
responsibilities under Parts A, B, C and D.2 of the Project. The
team leaders shall work in close collaboration with the Project
Coordinator and submit semiannual progress reports on Project
activities to him.
Part A of the Project
3.   The team leader to be appointed by MOF to coordinate Project
activities relating to the Financial Information System will also
act as the Chairman of a Steering Committee representing the needs
and interest of the major data users and suppliers.
Part D of the Project
4.   The Borrower shall encourage those ministries identified as
having the highest priority in the implementation of its Economic
Recovery Program to hire consultants, preferably Ugandans, for
periods of up to two (2) years to provide such ministries with
special studies and advisory services.
5.   The Borrower shall continue its efforts to attract the return
of Expatriate Ugandans, capable of taking up positions of direct


﻿- 17 -
relevance to the Economic Recovery Program, by providing
relocation grants to cover resettlement costs, travel costs and a
lump-sum settling-in allowance not exceeding $2,000 equivalent to
each returnee.
6.   Requests for financing under paragraphs 4 and 5 above shall
be submitted for approval to a Review Committee, with the
Permanent Secretary of MPED as Chairman, which shall include the
Secretary to the Treasury, the Permanent Secretary of MPSCA, the
Project Coordinator, and a representative of the requesting
agency. All proposals supported by the Review Committee shall be
submitted to the Association for its review and final approval.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $700,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received satisfactory evidence that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the


﻿- 19 -
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for Eligible
Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion from the Credit Account under the respective Eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposits furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for Eligible
Expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Condi-
tions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the Eligible Categories for the
Project, minus the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
Eligible Categories for the Project, shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.


﻿- 20 -
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account:
(i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


