Document of    FI LE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3227-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT
March 5, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
I their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS /1
Currency Unit - Won (W)
US$1.00        =  W 685
US$1 million   =  W 685 million
Won I          =  US$0.0014
Won 1 million  =  US$1,460
Won 1 billion  =  US$1.46 million
MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)  =  3,000 pyong
1 pyong         =  3.3 sq m
ABBREVIATIONS
AFDC  -  Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation
BCI   -  Bureau of Commerce and Industry
DAE   -  Division of Agricultural Economics
EPB   -  Economic Planning Board
GAMA  -  Garag-dong Agricultural Market Authority
ICB   -  International Competitive Bidding
KREI  -  Korea Rural Economics Institute
LCB   -  Local Competitive Bidding
MAF   -  Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
MCO   -  Market Construction Office
MOF   -  Ministry of Finance
NACF  -  National Agricultural Cooperative Federation
NFFC  -  National Federation of Fishery Cooperatives
NFFC  -  National Federation of Fishery Cooperatives
OCE   -  Office of Construction and Engineering
SCD   -  Second Construction Division
SMG   -  Seoul Metropolitan Government
TCD   -  Third Construction Division
VAT   -  Value added tax
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
/1 The exchange rate of Won 685 to US$1 used in the President-s and
Staff Appraisal Reports represents the rate as of November 1981
when the detailed cost estimates were finalized. The exchange
rate as of February 15, 1982 was W710 = US$1.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        The Republic of Korea
Beneficiaries:  Seoul Metropolitan Government (SMG), Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF)
Amount:          $50.0 million equivalent, including the capitalized front end
fee
Terms:           The loan to the Government of Korea would be for 14 years,
with 3 years of grace, at an interest rate of 11.6% p.a. The
Government would relend a portion of the proceeds of the Bank
loan ($49.4 million) to SMG, and extend as a grant the other
portion ($0.6 million) to MAF. Relending to SMG would be on
the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan to the
Government; SMG would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:  The project would comprise:  constructing and equipping an
agricultural wholesale market complex on the outskirts of
Seoul, including facilities for an agricultural marketing
information center; constructing market-related roads and
utilities; establishing an agricultural wholesale market
authority, the Garag-dong Agricultural Market Authority
(GAMA); carrying out a countrywide study of the agricultural
marketing system and related public policies leading to the
preparation of an agricultural marketing master plan for
Korea; and training in agricultural wholesale marketing
practices for wholesalers and government officials. It would
promote a more competitive price formation mechanism by
introducing auction sales, and foster reduction in marketing
costs by shortening distribution channels, by reducing
intra-market congestion, and by building the new market in a
readily accessible location on the outskirts of Seoul.
Realization of the project benefits will depend on improved
standards of wholesale market management. The proposed
training program is intended to minimize management-related
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
risks. Some of the wholesale traders at the old Yongsan
Market may be initially reluctant to move to the new Garag-
dong market.  This risk would be reduced by setting rents at
an attractive level in the new market and by closing Yongsan
Market upon the completion of the new market.
Cost Estimates ($ million)
% of
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
Construction and installation 31.50   20.90   52.40         40
Furnished materials and
equipment                      5.30   20.90   26.20      80
Studies                          0.50    0.50    1.00       50
Engineering and
supervision                    3.00    -        3.00      -
GAMA establishment               1.50    -        1.50       -
Subtotal                   41.80   42.30   84.10       50
Physical contingencies           2.04    1.90    3.94       50
Price contingencies              8.16    5.06   13.22       38
Total Cost                  52.00   49.26  101.26      49
Front end fee on Bank loan               0.74    0.74
Total Financing             52.00   50.00  102.00
Financing Plan ($ million)
Local      Foreign        Total
Bank                -            50.00         50.00
Government         52.00          -            52.00
Total            52.00         50.00        102.00
Estimated Disbursement ($ million)
Bank FY:          1982      1983     1984      1985
Annual            1.70    13.75    28.15       6.40
Cumulative        1.70    15.45    43.60    50.00
Rate of Return: 25%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3684-Ko, dated March 1, 1982



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Korea for the equivalent of $50.0 million, including
the capitalized front end fee, to help finance a proposed agricultural
wholesale marketing project. The loan would have a term of 14 years,
including 3 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea:  Current Developments
and Policy Issues" was distributed under cover of Sec M80-449, dated May 20,
1980. The following paragraphs are based on this Report together with
updating information obtained during Bank missions in March/April 1981 and
November 1981. The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
A.  Past Performance
3.        During the last two decades, Korea achieved remarkable economic
progress. At the beginning of the 1960s, Korea was one of the poorest
developing countries, with heavy dependence on agriculture and a weak balance
of payments, financed almost entirely by foreign grants. By the late 1970s it
had become a semi-industrial, middle-income country with a strong external
payments position. During 1960-1978, GNP grew by 9% p.a., and per capita
income more than tripled in real terms. The manufacturing sector grew at
18% a year in constant prices, increasing its share in GNP from 14 to 27%.
At the same time the share of agriculture fell from 36 to 22%. Merchandise
exports, principally manufactured goods, rose from $33 million in 1960 to
$13 billion in 1978. The growth of exports was 27% p.a. in real terms and
exports in 1978 constituted 34% of GNP, as against a mere 4% in 1960.
4.        Rapid industrial growth, based on the expansion of export-oriented
manufactured goods, contributed to high rates of growth of employment. More
than 2 million jobs, constituting more than 40 percent of total additional
employment, were created in manufacturing during 1962-76, the years
corresponding to the first three Five-Year Development Plans. Unemployment
during these years declined from 8 to 4%, while real wages increased by more
/1 This section is substantially the same as the one in the President's
Report on the Water Supply Project (No. P-3160-KO dated November 30,
1981), which was distributed under cover of a memorandum dated
November 30, 1981.



- 2 -
than 7% p.a. The rising demand for labor in the industrial and urban sectors
caused heavy out-migration from the rural areas. Nevertheless, value-added
in agriculture grew at 4% a year, indicating a fairly good rate of
productivity growth in this important sector, which still employs more than
a third of the labor force. This performance, combined with deliberate
government policies after 1968 to improve the agricultural terms of trade,
tended to ensure growth in per capita rural incomes more or less in line
with the rest of the economy. While there has been some worsening of income
distribution during the seventies, Korea compares favorably with most
developing countries and the ratio of the urban and rural population below
the poverty line is estimated to be under 15%.
B. Adjustment to the First Oil Crisis
5.        Between 1973 and 1978, Korea succeeded in achieving a high rate of
growth (10% p.a.) and substantial external adjustment, despite a total depen-
dency on imports for its petroleum needs and the quadrupling of oil import
prices between 1972 and 1974. Among the policy instruments which contributed
to Korea's success in rapidly overcoming the effects of the first oil crisis
were: (a) devaluation in 1974; (b) continued emphasis on export diversi-
fication in products as well as markets; (c) restraint in wage increases; and
(d) an increase in public sector savings, mainly reflecting a strong tax
effort. Notwithstanding the recession in developed countries and growing
protectionism, the growth in export volume averaged 23% p.a. during 1974-78,
thereby contributing to the high growth momentum. In addition, increased
borrowing from abroad helped to maintain the rate of growth. The Korean
economy also gained from an improvement in terms of.trade during 1976-78
(reflecting in part a decline in the real price of oil from the peak of
1974-75), and a spectacular growth in overseas construction contracts.
6.        However, the very success of the Korean planners in stimulating
growth during 1975-78 seriously strained the economy. With export volume
doubling, the level of real fixed investment also doubling, and the terms of
trade improving by 28 percent between 1975 and 1978, aggregate demand (con-
sumption, investment and exports) grew by an unprecedented 57 percent. This
rapid expansion understandably created bottlenecks in the economy and created
inflationary pressures. In addition, aided by subsidized credit directed by
the Government through the financial system, the sharp growth in investment
was focused on the heavy and chemical industries. While this trend was in
line with the Government s view of the changing comparative advantage of
Korean industry, the investment in some key areas was excessive, leading to
poor capacity utilization, while in some other areas investment lagged. Also,
labor markets witnessed a major transformation in this period. Nonagricul-
tural employment expanded by 30% and employment in the construction sector
increased by 61%. At the same time, a significant part of the existing
construction work force went abroad to work on overseas construction
contracts. Reflecting the tightening of the labor market, money wages in



- 3 -
manufacturing increased by 33% p.a. during 1975-78, and real wages growth (at
around 18% p.a.) clearly outstripped the 10% annual growth in productivity.
The rate of growth of money supply and domestic credit also accelerated.
The resulting sharp rise in Korea's price level, compared with its major
trading partners, combined with exchange rate rigidity after 1974, eroded
export competitiveness. By the end of 1978, export volume was showing signs
of stagnating.
C. Developments in 1979 and 1980
7.        In order to tackle the problem of inflation and structural imbal-
ances, the Government announced in April 1979 a far-reaching program of
stabilization-cum-restructuring. The general strategy was to follow tight
monetary and fiscal policies while initiating basic structural changes aimed
at giving greater play to market forces, further opening up the economy to
international competition, and providing direct assistance to the poor.
Specific measures included a reduction in the Government program of construc-
tion and rural housing, lower fiscal deficits, a sharp reduction in the
growth of domestic credit, a review of investment projects in heavy and
chemical industries, decontrol of prices of a large number of commodities,
vigorous pursuit of import liberalization, lowering of tariff rates on
necessities, and a program of direct assistance to the poor in order to soften
the impact of price decontrol. In the light of the above stabilization
program, the Government prepared a new Economic Management Plan for 1979-81,
scaling down the targets for growth, exports, and investment in the original
Fourth Five-Year Plan (1977-81) for these years, and allowing for a higher
level of foreign capital inflows than envisaged in the Plan.
8.        Unfortunately, however, the economic program embodied in the
Economic Management Plan was overwhelmed by a series of unexpected shocks; and
during 1979 and 1980, the Korean economy experienced the most difficult period
in its recent history. The oil price hikes in 1979 and 1980 raised Korea's
petroleum import bill from about $2.3 billion in 1978 to $6.2 billion in 1980
with the price-induced increase equal to nearly 6% of GNP in 1980. In
October 1979, President Park Chung Hee, the chief architect of Korea's
"economic miracle" since the mid-sixties was assassinated.  This was followed
by a period of the severest political uncertainty and social unrest in twenty
years (with the situation returning to normal only after the ascendancy of a
new Administration under President Chun Doo Hwan in September 1980). On top
of these developments, the weather turned out to be unfavorable, resulting in
a drop in agricultural output of about 22% in 1980, or over 4% of GNP.
Compared to the first oil crisis in 1974, the external shocks during 1979/80
were significantly larger, and this made adjustment considerably more
difficult than in 1974-75. The deflationary effects of these developments
on the economy were exacerbated by the effects of tight financial policies
during 1979-80, and by the weakened competitive position of exports owing
mainly to rising wage rates and (through 1979) exchange rate rigidity.



-4-
9.        As a combined result of the various adverse factors, the economy
went into a recession in the second half of 1979, which further deepened
during 1980. The real GNP growth was reduced by half to 6% in 1979, with
the seasonally adjusted GNP declining during the last two quarters of 1979.
GNP continued to decline during 1980, falling almost 6% for the full year.
While the slowing of real growth in 1979 mainly reflected a decline in real
exports (by about 4%), the contraction of real economic activity in 1980
reflected the fall in fixed capital formation (-15%) and in inventories and
consumption (-1%), which offset an improvement in exports (+10%). The
unemployment rate increased from 3.2% in 1978 to 5.2% in 1980.
.
10.       The rate of increase of wholesale and consumer prices accelerated
from 12% and 14% respectively in 1978 to 39 percent and 29% in 1980. A
large part of the price increase in 1980 was due to external factors,
particularly oil prices and devaluation of the won. The inflation resulting
from domestic factors reflected in part the reduction of government price
controls in 1979 and increases in the administered prices of some food
grains. To some extent, the cost push pressures were accentuated by the
tight credit policy which raised interest costs to producers. Balance of
payments developments in 1979-80 were heavily influenced by the
already-mentioned sharp increases in oil prices and slowdown in growth of
exports. The current account deficit rose from $1.1 billion (2.3% of GNP)
in 1978 to $ 4.2 billion (6.9% of GNP) in 1979, and reached $5.7 billion
(10% of GNP) in 1980, a level that could not be sustained on a long-term
basis.
11.       Although mid-1979 through 1980 was a most difficult period for the
Korean economy and the political situation was marked by considerable uncer-
tainty, the Government nevertheless succeeded in taking a number of major
policy initiatives which gave substantial impetus to the adjustment process.
Among these, the most important steps were the January 1980 devaluation of
the won, and the adoption in February 1980 of a flexible exchange rate
policy. The new policy involves adjustment of the value of the won from time
to time on the basis of a multicurrency basket, with other factors affecting
Korea-s external position also taken into account. The won depreciated
vis-a-vis the US dollar by a total of 26.7% during the course of 1980 and
the real effective exchange rate in the fourth quarter of 1980 was 11% lower
than that in the corresponding quarter of 1979. Partly due to the exchange
rate depreciation, export volume which was stagnant in 1979 rose by 10% in
1980 and import volume, which rose by 9% in 1979, declined by 7%. The
reduction in imports in 1980 can also be traced to the fall in consumption
expenditure (due to a decline in agricultural incomes following the poor
crop and to a decline in real wages in the manufacturing sector) as well as a
decline in gross fixed investment (due to the slowdown in economic activity).



- 5 -
12.       With continued exchange rate flexibility, the process of adjustment
is expected to be carried further in 1981. The export volume is projected to
increase by 16% and import volume 10%, including extra-ordinary and tempor-
ary rice imports costing about $1 billion (4% of imports). The nonoil trade
surplus is expected to improve further to $2.8 billion, and excluding special
rice imports, to $3.7 billion. However, because of an increase in interest
payments by about $1 billion (rising to $3.2 billion), the current account
deficit in 1981 is projected to remain high at $5.5 billion, or about 8.5% of
GNP, of which 1.5 percentage points is due to the special rice imports as
a result of abnormal weather conditions in 1980.
13.       During 1980 and 1981 the Government has been following a policy of
wage restraint. As a result wages, adjusted by the consumer price index,
declined by about 5% in 1980 and are projected to decline by another 3% in
1981. Another of the major initial adjustments was in domestic energy prices.
The average price of petroleum products was increased by 225% between March
1979 and December 1980. In addition, the Government adopted a series of
measures in 1980 for the consolidation of investment programs, reduction in
agricultural subsidies, improvement in energy efficiency and improvement in
trade and foreign investment policies. The balance of payments impact of
these adjustments will, as discussed below, be largely felt over the medium
term.
14.       While substantial external adjustment has been obtained in 1980-81,
this has been associated with stagnation in the economy and a continuing
large current account deficit. There are signs of slow recovery in 1981,
and GNP is likely to grow by about 6%; but that would only offset the 6%
decline experienced in 1980. This situation indicates the need for
longer-term structural adjustment so that the external balance can be
improved consistent with restoration of growth momentum. The need for such
a program is heightened by the possibility that international interest rates
might remain high for some time and that real energy prices during the 1980s
may not decline as they did after the first oil crisis.
D. Medium Term Prospects
15.       The Government is in the process of finalizing the Fifth Five-
Year Plan which will cover the years 1982-86. The basic objectives of the
Plan are to restore growth momentum along with the achievement of price
stability and equity. For this purpose, the Plan puts emphasis on (a)
economic stabilization, (b) export promotion and import liberalization,
(c) establishment of a competitive industrial structure, (d) promotion of
the market mechanism, and (e) expansion of social development expenditure.
The goal of price stabilization is to be pursued mainly through reduction
in budgetary deficits and reduction in the growth rate of the money supply.
Export promotion efforts will be helped by price stability as well as by



-6-
quality improvement and product innovation. The Plan also proposes a
program of import liberalization as well as tariff reduction to improve
price competitiveness. An important change in industrial policy during the
Plan period will be the reduction of the Government's role in promoting the
so-called strategic industries. Investment choices will be left
increasingly to the initiative of the private sector with the Government
only providing the general framework. For promotion of the market
mechanism, new legislation, designed to increase competition, has already
been enacted and the Government has started a program for liberalization of
the financial sector including denationalization of some of the commercial
banks. The Plan also proposes that relatively more government resources
will be allocated to meet the "basic needs" of people such as education,
housing, social security and improved sanitation and water supply.
External Capital Requirements
16.       At the last meeting of the Consultative Group for Korea, held in
June 1980, there was a consensus that in spite of the current difficulties,
Korea's longer-term prospects remained good. Among the sources of strength
for the economy are: a large investment base, the young, skilled and
rapidly growing labor force, the scope for exports of capital goods
including construction equipment, and the dynamism of its private sector.
It is generally recognized, however, that even with strenuous government
efforts for structural adjustment, Korea's balance of payments can improve
only over a period of several years. The current account deficit is
expected to be reduced from $5.7 billion (10% of GNP) in 1981 to about $3.6
billion (3% of GNP) by 1986 with the GNP growth rate reviving to 7.6% p.a.
during 1982-86. Allowing for debt service, export credits and addition to
reserves, the gross external capital inflows required during 1982-86 are
estimated to be about $9 billion per year, of which only 15% could be
expected from public sources (excluding Ex-Im banks but including the IMF),
and the rest from private sources.
17.       Korea is extending its use of commercial financing from
traditional suppliers and private banks, credits from Euro-dollar syndicated
loans and bond issues in the Korea-bond and Asian bond market, and is
expected to derive an increasing proportion of its total requirements from
such sources. Nonetheless, the magnitude of these external capital
requirements is such that it will have to continue to rely on considerable
capital inflows from official sources. Servicing of the debt should not pose
difficulties given the present debt service ratio and the continuing emphasis
on export growth. The projected debt service ratio for medium and long term
debt is not likely to rise much above its current figure of 14% of the value
of exports of goods and nonfactor services.



-7-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS /1
18.       As of September 30, 1981, Korea had received 57 Bank Loans
(including one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $3,335 million
in loans and $106.8 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and
the refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan). As of that
date, $1,162.3 million of the total Bank lending remained undisbursed on
effective Loans and Credits, mostly from commitments in the past two years.
On December 17, 1981, the Executive Directors approved a $90.0 million
equivalent Water Supply Project and a $250.0 million equivalent Structural
Adjustment Loan. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans, IDA
Credits, and IFC Investments as of September 30, 1981 and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. As indicated in the notes, progress on
project implementation is generally satisfactory, however, delays in several
projects - irrigation, highways and population have occurred due primarily
to shortfalls in government budgetary contributions. The Government is
taking measures to increase local funding of the affected projects.
19.       In recent years, the thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations
in Korea has been towards assisting the Government's efforts: (a) to secure
the external resources required to supplement domestic savings in sustaining a
high GNP growth rate by following a policy of rapid export-oriented
industrialization; (b) to avoid the emergence of infrastructure bottlenecks;
and (c) to complement industrial development with agricultural and rural
development schemes aimed at bringing about a better dispersal of the fruits
of growth through raising incomes and improving the quality of life in the
rural areas.
20.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been directed towards the
vital industrial sector through lending to Korea-s four major development
banks. The Korea Long-Term Credit Bank has received $410.0 million, the
Korea Development Bank, $352.5 million, and the Small and Medium Industry
Bank, $205 million in Bank loans for relending to private industry, and the
Citizens National Bank $30 million to meet the financial needs of the small
enterprises. The primary beneficiaries of these loans have been the
numerous industrial enterprises which have received funds through the
financial intermediaries. This has contributed to the overall development
of the industrial sector, and also to the achievement of institutional
improvements as well as the Government's objective of decentralizing
industry.
/1 This section is substantially the same as the one in the President's
Report on the Water Supply Project (No. P-3160-KO dated November 30,
1981), which was distributed under cover of a memorandum dated
November 30, 1981.



- 8 -
21.       As Korea's economy has continued to grow and the pace of
industrialization has quickened, there has had to be a parallel expansion of
transport facilities. The Bank Group, through its association with the
Government's efforts to modernize and expand the transport sector, dating back
to 1962, has played an important role in these developments. Financing of
$432 million has been provided for seven railway projects designed to increase
the railroad's capacity and improve its operations; four loans totalling
$334.5 million have been made for highway construction and paving of high
priority sections of the national network and for a countrywide maintenance
organization; and two loans amounting to $147.0 million have been provided for
the expansion of port facilities at Busan and Mugho.
22.       Korea's paucity of natural resources and dependence on the manufac-
turing segment of its economy have resulted in the adoption of a strategy
based on maximizing the advantages of a skilled and hardworking labor force.
The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements for
appropriately trained workers and certain categories of skilled manpower
through its lending for four education projects, which have pursued the broad
objectives of technical manpower development either through the expansion of
relevant subsectors or through specific quality improvements. Together, these
projects have catered to a wide range of manpower training needs.
23.       Korea's record of achievement in modernizing its agricultural
sector, although less spectacular than the gains made in the industrial
sphere, is nevertheless commendable. The past 15 years have seen agricuctural
output grow at an average 4.2% p.a., which has resulted in the country
becoming nearly self-sufficient in its staple food, rice, and made possible a
steady and perceptible improvement in the living standards of the 35% of
Korea-s population who live in the countryside and rely primarily on agrarian
pursuits for their livelihood. The Bank has lent $325.5 million for the
improvement of irrigation facilities, land and seed development and the
provision of agricultural credit to farmers and processors of agricultural
products. In addition, $155.0 million has been provided for two rural infra-
structure projects in support of the Government's rural development program,
initiated in 1971, to improve the quality of life and the standard of living
in the rural areas. In 1979, a $125.0 million loan was provided by the Bank
to help meet the growing demand for municipal, industrial and irrigation
water in the Han Basin southeast of the capital city, Seoul; reduce flood
damage; and generate electricity to augment and provide peaking capacity for
Korea's power system. A $50.0 million Bank loan was approved in April 1981
for a Third Agricultural Credit Project.
24.       The Bank's first essay into the field of regional development in
Korea, through the project approved in January 1975, has proved successful.
The project was designed to support Government policy by financing high



-9-
priority investments in the poor, primarily agricultural, southwest region.
A loan of $65.0 million for a second project for the development of the
region was approved by the Executive Directors in September 1979. A loan
for $90.0 million was approved in April 1981 for a National Urban Land
Development and Housing Project.
25.       A primary objective of the Bank's future lending to Korea is to
provide assistance in sustaining the growth momentum and in addressing the
emerging issues which the Korean economy is facing.
26.       In order to revitalize the economy while ameliorating inflation
and promoting social equity, the Government has taken a number of policy
measures such as those described in Part I above. These measures are incor-
porated into a structural adjustment program for which a $250 million
structural adjustment loan was approved by the Executive Directors in
December 1981. The maturity of many of the Korean institutions suggests
that it would be appropriate to adopt a sector lending approach in some
areas along the lines of the loan for higher technical education approved in
1980 which will contribute to the modernization and improvement of the
system of higher technical education so as to increase its flexibility and
responsiveness to the changing requirements of the economy.
27.       Another strand in the lending strategy is increased support of the
Government s efforts to spread the fruits of growth even more equitably by
the diversification and expansion of the output of the agricultural sector
and through nationwide development programs. To support such diversification
and expansion, projects are envisaged for land/water resource development, for
agricultural marketing, for low-income housing, and for the further develop-
ment of rural infrastructure and facilities in selected provincial areas,
which would enhance incomes and quality of life in the lesser-developed
regions of the country and would have a significant impact on the problems of
migration to the major metropolitan areas.
28.       The further development of the industrial and agricultural sectors
and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent infrastructural
development. Although the transport sector will be given less emphasis than
in the past, the investments required are large and, thus, future Bank
lending will provide considerable support for this sector.
29.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt disbursed
and outstanding at the end of 1980 was about 11%, and its share of debt
service was of the order of 7% at that time. These ratios are expected to be
around 9% and 7% respectively by the mid-1980s.



- 10 -
PART III - SECTOR BACKGROUND
Agricultural Sector
30.       The value of Korean agricultural production grew at an annual
average of 4.2% in real terms during the last decade, compared to a growth
rate of 9.9% for the economy as a whole. The more rapid growth of the other
sectors has meant a steady decline in the relative contribution of agriculture
to GDP from 27% in 1970 to 16.5% in 1980. Nonetheless, agriculture continues
to play a vital role in the economy especially regarding food supply, rural
income and employment, and foreign exchange earnings.
31.       Korean agriculture is founded on owner-operated smallholdings,
numbering about 2.2 million, with an average holding of about 1 hectare (ha)
and 70% of all holdings between 0.3 and 1.5 ha. Only about 22% of the total
land area of 9.9 million ha is cultivable. Rice is the major crop and takes
about 56% of the cultivated area. The remainder, mostly unirrigated upland
fields, is used for barley, soybeans, tobacco, and a wide range of fruit and
vegetables. Nearly 86% of the rice fields are irrigated but due to cold
winters, only one crop of rice is possible each year. About 30% of the rice
lands are planted to barley in the winter.
32.       The agricultural sector has been recently undergoing structural
changes characterized by: (a) declining domestic per capita demand for staple
foodgrains; (b) shifting consumption and production patterns in favor of
horticultural, fish, and livestock products; (c) reopening of a gap between
rural and urban incomes despite mounting deficits in the operations of
agricultural price support schemes; (d) growing seasonal farm labor shortages;
and (e) rapid growth in output of livestock products with high domestic
production costs relative to international costs. These trends also underlie
the basic issues bearing on Korean agricultural policies, priorities, and
programs.
33.       Primarily as a result of limited land and capital resources, aver-
age labor productivity in agriculture is substantially below that in other
sectors; 32% of the labor force is in agriculture, but it produces only
about 16.5% of GDP. In view of the virtual absence of new cultivable land and
the limited scope for multiple cropping, efforts to increase agricultural
labor productivity have included measures aimed at improving crop yields,
promoting mechanization, and expanding the cultivation of crops such as fruit
and vegetables.  Major issues relating to the sector are how to:  (a) attain
an equitable balance between rural and urban incomes, without adverse effects
on labor mobility into industry; (b) improve agricultural productivity while
conserving fuel; (c) satisfy the rising demand for food without distorting
resource allocation and straining the balance of payments; and (d) increase
efficiency in the marketing system, having regard to equity in the
distribution of resultant benefits.



- 11 -
Bank Lending for Agriculture
34.       Bank Group assistance to the agricultural sector, totalling
$580.5 million, has been channelled through 15 projects. These include seven
irrigation and rural development projects amounting to 70% of the loan funds,
three credit projects amounting to 14% of the funds, two agricultural
processing projects amounting to 11% of the funds, and two livestock develop-
ment projects and a seed production project amounting to 5% of the funds.
These projects have contributed to the national development programs aimed at
raising incomes and bettering the quality of life in rural areas. The
proposed project would be the first to address the problems of agricultural
marketing. Project performance audits have been done for seven completed
agricultural projects. The performance of the implementing agencies has been
satisfactory; most of the projects achieved their objectives but many have
experienced major cost overruns due to rapid inflation.
Marketing of Horticultural and Marine Products
35.       Horticultural and marine products account for about 27% of the
total value of agricultural and fishery production. Between 1975 and 1979,
in response to sharply rising demand, the production of fruit increased by
about 80% from 0.5 to 0.9 million tons, vegetable production rose by about
74% from 4.6 to 8.0 million tons, and fish catches increased by about 14%
from 2.1 to 2.4 million tons. Demand is expected to continue increasing
rapidly in step with rising urban population and incomes and by 1995, demand
for fruit is projected to reach 2.0 million tons, for vegetables 10.9 million
tons, and for fish 2.9 million tons.
36.       It is estimated that private traders assemble about 60% of fruit
and vegetables, with informal farmer groups and cooperatives handling 24%
and 16%, respectively. The Government policy is to strengthen the role of
cooperatives and farmer organizations in horticultural marketing to promote
group shipment to the wholesale markets, thus reducing assembling, handling
and transportation costs, and offsetting the problems arising from the small
size of the production units. Implementation of the policy is hampered by
the absence of reliable receiving agents in the wholesale markets, notably
in Seoul. Producers are able to ship directly' to the cooperatives and to
some of the licensed private wholesale markets outside Seoul, where auctioning
is the predominant method of sale and the middlemen consist of wholesale
companies and jobbers. These wholesale companies act as consignment agents,
on a commission basis, receiving goods from the producer-shipper and placing
them for auction, while the jobbers buy from the auction, mostly on behalf of
retailers, on a commission but occasionally on their own account when this is
needed to clear the market. However, in the private markets in Seoul, both
the trading practices and institutional framework are significantly different
and the marketing system is less efficient. Retail marketing is mostly in
the hands of small-scale grocery shops, hawkers and peddlers.
37.       Marketing support services such as credit, storage and
transportation are generally satisfactory. The cooperatives have been
providing marketing information services since 1975, based on data collected



- 12 -
from the cooperative markets. The information system covers fish and all
the major fruit and vegetables and is disseminated daily by radio,
newspapers, teletypes and automatic telephone answering facilities located
in the cooperatives provincial centers in the main producing and consuming
areas. The system suffers from three main deficiencies: limited relevance
and meaningfulness because the grades, weights and measures used differ
widely; unrepresentativeness of supply and demand conditions since the
information is collected only from the cooperative wholesale markets which,
except for fish, handle a very small proportion of the marketed commodities;
and lack of comparability because of differing methods of data collection
from market to market.
38.       The existing marketing law and ordinances are basically sound and
adequate to ensure an orderly and efficient marketing system. However, they
are modelled on Japanese legislation and are geared to a level of marketing
development more advanced than the system prevailing in Korea at the moment.
In effect, many of the stipulations of the law are difficult to enforce.
This is particularly so with regard to the legally prescribed specifications
for wholesale market premises and institutional framework.
39.        Seoul City Wholesale Marketing System.  Seoul consumes and trades
about 60% of the fruit sold in the country, 26% of the vegetables, and 26%
of the fish. As a result of population growth and increase in incomes, the
city-s total and per capita consumptions of these commodities are projected
to increase further, though at declining rates, with most of the increase
taking place south of the river in keeping with the shift in the population
distribution pattern. About 94% of fruit and vegetables and 87% of fish
enter the city from south of the Han River, while all the major wholesale
markets are located in the downtown area north of the river, where traffic
congestion is worse and room for expansion is severely limited (Map IBRD
15838R). This results in high costs of delivering the commodities to the
wholesale markets and of distributing them to the various retail outlets in
the city. The situation would deteriorate further as population growth
shifts to the area south of the river.
40.       There are 20 markets for fruit and vegetables and 8 for fish in
Seoul, but only 10 are significant in terms of capacity. The ton/sq m ratio
of 0.046 for fruit and vegetables for the 10 larger markets is very high
compared to 0.025 for Osaka Market in Japan, reflecting serious intramarket
congestion. Lack of expansion space has resulted in increasing pressure on
essential facilities, including storage and auction space. Inadequate
auction space has restricted adoption of more competitive and fairer trading
practices and introduction of institutional reforms, particularly the estab-
lishment of bona fide consignment wholesale companies to act as receiving
and auctioning agencies on behalf of the producer. The deficiencies of the
wholesale markets in Seoul are epitomized by the Yongsan Market.
41.       The Yongsan Market.  This market is the largest wholesale market
for fruit and vegetables in Korea, accounting for about 62% of the



- 13 -
horticultural produce marketed in Seoul. Like most of the wholesale markets
in Seoul, the Yongsan Market is located north of the Han River. The market
layout has developed haphazardly with little regard to efficient flow of the
merchandise and related vehicular and human traffic.  Due to lack of room
for expansion, essential facilities such as auction floors, storage,
loading, unloading, parking space, and waste disposal have not kept pace
with the increased use of the market. The intramarket congestion has
steadily worsened over the last decade and the throughput-space ratio is now
about 0.070 ton/sq m. The lack of space and excessive handling at Yongsan
has resulted in high spoilage and wastage, especially for vegetables, which
is estimated at 8% of throughput. Queuing time for delivery and collection
vehicles is also excessive. Spoilage and vehicle waiting time are factors
in the high marketing costs. The congestion and lack of auctioning
facilities have also rendered the marketing system less competitive by
restricting buyers movement in search of better bargains.
42.       Unlike the cooperative and most of the provincial wholesale
markets, the Seoul markets do not have wholesale companies to act as
regular receiving agents for the producers, who are therefore compelled to
rely on intermediaries to reach the market. Longer distribution channels
and consequently higher marketing costs ensue. Because of lack of
standardized packaging and grading, and high rates of spoilage, buyers have
little trust in commodity specifications and have to inspect visually the
entire merchandise. This results in increased pressure on market space,
excessive handling, and long transaction times. In the absence of open
auctions, even the licensed dealers often change position, acting as
commission agents when the prospects of resale prices are unfavorable and
buying on their own account when prospects are good.  They thus pass all
price risks to producers and deny them the benefits of higher resale prices.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       A Staff Appraisal Report No. 3684-KO, dated March 1, 1982 is being
distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in
Annex III. Preparation of the project was started at the beginning of 1979.
Frequent changes of Government officials caused some delays in completing
the preparation of the project. Negotiations were completed in Washington
on February 11, 1982. The principal members of the Korean delegation were
Mr. Kang, Suk-In, Assistant-Director, International Finance Bureau, Ministry
of Finance and Mr. Yoon, Baek-Young, Director-General, Commerce Industry
Department, Seoul Metropolitan Government.



- 14 -
Marketing Improvement Program
44.       The Government has increasingly come to recognize that the past
development plans did not pay sufficient attention to marketing aspects.
Although major gains have been achieved in the range and volumes of the
commodities now being produced, marketing remains a principal weakness in
the overall structure of the agriculture sector. Under the new Five-Year
Plan (1982-86) a higher priority than in the past will be accorded to
measures aimed at improving the efficiency of the agricultural marketing
system. As part of the Plan, the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF)
has prepared an indicative program to overhaul the marketing system
estimated to cost about $887 million. As the initial step in implementation
of the program, the Government plans to relocate the Yongsan market, Seoul's
largest, to the outskirts of the city and, in the process, to carry out a
number of institutional reforms hitherto impracticable because of
deficiencies in the physical facilities now available at the Yongsan Market.
These reforms would include: introduction of auction sales; establishment of
bona fide wholesale companies and jobbers; creation of a market authority;
and implementation of improved marketing information services.
Project Objectives
45.       The project would have the following objectives:
(a) promotion of a more competitive price formation mechanism through:
provision of adequate auctioning facilities, reduction of
intramarket congestion, creation of a market authority to
foster fair and competitive trading practices, and improvement of
the marketing information services;
(b) increase in the efficiency of the agricultural marketing system
throughout the country in general and Seoul in particular by:
shortening the marketing channels; promoting the adoption of
standards for grading, packaging and weights which have already
been formulated; providing adequate storage facilities; and
by locating the market on the outskirts of the city; and
(c) establish the basis for improvements in public policies and
institutions affecting agricultural marketing by studying
trading practices; licensing policies; marketing and tax
legislation; produce assembly system, distribution channels, and
cost structure; and various support services including
transportation, credit and storage.



-15 -
46.       The project would complement Bank-supported projects to increase
the production of fruit and vegetables (Cr. 335-KO, Lns. 1328-KO and 1974-KO).
The studies proposed under the project would provide the Government and
private investors with overdue policy guidelines and broad-based investment
programs aimed at improving not only the marketing of horticultural and marine
products but also of the major foodgrains and of livestock products.
Project Principal Features
47.       The proposed project would consist of:
(a) the construction of the Garag-dong agricultural wholesale market
in Seoul for horticultural and marine products;
(b) the construction of about 3.5 km of market-related roads,
including an underpass, intramarket streets and parking
facilities;
(c) establishment of the Garag-dong Agricultural Market Authority;
(d)  a study of Korea's agricultural marketing system, including
feasibility studies of various components of the agricultural
marketing improvement program as part of the Government's
Five-Year Plan (1982-86) and a review of policy and institutional
issues; and
(e)  provision of local and overseas training in agricultural
marketing.
48.       The Garag-dong Market would be located on a 55 ha site on the
outskirts of Seoul, some 15 km from the city center, south of the Han River.
The selection of the new market site takes into account the need to reduce
traffic congestion; realign the market to the major supply routes of farm
produce into the city and changes in population distribution south and
north of the Han River; ensure availability of convenient transport linkages
with the city's main retail districts; ensure compatibility with existing
and planned development in the surrounding area; and minimize land acquisi-
tion and site development costs. Land acquisition and compensation has been
completed. The cost of works completed to date is about $13.0 million
equivalent and about $7.0 million equivalent has been expended on land
acquisition and compensation.
49.       The market would consist of four main buildings and ten smaller
ones, with a total floor space of nearly 200,000 sq m. The internal
market layout was reviewed by representatives of future users. The daily
throughput would be 2,390 tons of vegetables, 640 tons of fruit and 540 tons



- 16 -
of fish. A proportion of the 2,400 retailers, peddlers and hawkers would
follow the move to Garag-dong. The remainder would transfer their activities
to opportunities around the Yongsan site and other centers and in nonmarket
related activities. The project would also include the construction of the
market perimeter roads amounting to about 3.5 km. An assurance was obtained
that the SMG would complete construction of the South Ring Road to the
Garag-dong Market, including a bridge across the Tancheon River, before
project completion (Section 2.12 of the draft Project Agreement.)
Other Market Related Project Components
50.       The project would establish in the new market an Agricultural
Marketing Information Center equipped with computer based terminal facilities,
monitors, and display boards, as well as automatic telephone answering
facilities. It would be linked with the cooperatives' marketing information
system throughout the country. The project would also assist in establishing
the Garag-dong Agricultural Market Authority (GAMA) which would be responsible
for the overall management of the market, while leaving commercial activities
to private enterprise. Under the auspice of MAF, the Authority would also
organize short courses, including overseas study tours, for: wholesalers,
jobbers, and auctioneers expected to move from the Yongsan to the Garag-dong
Market; for GAMA staff; for wholesalers, auctioneers, jobbers, and operators
of the other wholesale markets in Seoul and other major cities; and for staff
of SMG, MAF, and provincial governments concerned with agricultural marketing.
Agricultural Marketing Studies
51.       The studies would cover the marketing of the principal foodgrains,
and of horticultural, marine and livestock products. They would include
feasibility studies of the agricultural market improvement projects proposed
for inclusion in the 1982-86 Development Plan and preparation of a perspective
(10-15 years) agricultural marketing improvement master plan, which would
provide guidelines for both governmental and private initiatives; the perspec-
tive plan would formulate a longer-term investment program and required
policy, legal and institutional changes. The studies would take about
24 months to complete. MAF would be responsible for making the necessary
arrangements for timely execution of the studies. An assurance was obtained
that MAF would submit by September 1, 1982 detailed descriptions of the
studies and proposals for their implementation for review and approval by the
Bank (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The project would provide
for about 200 man-months of consultant services to assist in execution of the
studies, of which about 60 man-months would be of expatriate origin and
140 man-months of local origin. The foreign consulting services are expected
to cost about $10,000 per man-month and the local services about $3,000 per
man-month. An assurance was obtained that all consultants engaged under the
project would be employed under terms of reference and conditions acceptable
to the Bank in accordance with the Bank's guidelines on the use of
consultants (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
Project Implementation and Management
52.       In addition to the proposed studies and training, MAF would
be responsible for ensuring that the basic laws and policies would continue
to be consistent with the objectives of the project, and that sufficient
local funds for the project are budgeted and made available in a timely
manner. The SMG would be responsible for the construction of the proposed
Garag-dong Market and related utilities and infrastructure. It would also
own the market through a subsidiary corporation to be created, the proposed
Garag-dong Agricultural Market Authority. SMG is a corporate entity coming
under the Office of the Prime Minister which approves its budget and
borrowings. The SMG is organized into functional bureaus and is headed by a
mayor who is appointed by the President of Korea and holds a cabinet rank.
53.       In January 1980, SMG created the Market Construction Office (MCO)
as a separate unit under the Bureau of Commerce and Industry (BCI) to super-
vise the construction of the Garag-dong Market. As a result of a
reorganization in November 1981, all SMG construction activities, except the
subway, have been placed under the newly established Office of Construction
and Engineering (OCE). The OCE is headed by a Director General, assisted by
a Deputy, and is organized into one administrative and five construction
divisions, each headed by a Director. The Deputy Director General of OCE
would have responsibility for all market construction activities through the
Second (SCD) and Third Construction Divisions (TCD). Existing MCO staff have
all been absorbed into the larger SCD and additional staff have been drafted
in from the TCD. The reorganization has resulted in assignment of a larger
and more experienced staff to the project's work and has provided a more
flexible mechanism for movement of personnel from other divisions as needed.
Provision would be made for up to six months of engineering consultant
services to support OCE as may be necessary. An assurance was obtained to
this effect. (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
54.       When completed, the Garag-dong Market would be the largest and most
modern wholesale agricultural market in Korea. SMG would create a body to be
known as the Garag-dong Agricultural Market Authority (GAMA) as a statutory
corporation to manage the market in accordance with sound market practices
(Sections 3.01(b) and 3.02 of the draft Project Agreement). GAMA would be
responsible for drawing up and enforcing market rules and regulations, for
collection of rents and other market charges, for operation and maintenance
of physical facilities, for organization and operation of the Marketing
Information Center, and for conducting the proposed training courses in
improved marketing.  In addition, GAMA would set up an information system to
bring together shippers in Seoul looking for transport opportunities for
goods to the provinces and produce truckers looking for backhauls. SMG is
committed to the closing of the existing Yongsan Market and to the
transferring of its activities and trading community to the new Garag-dong
Market as soon as the new market is built; an assurance was obtained that SMG
would, by April 1, 1983, present to the Bank for review and comment a
detailed plan of action to this effect (Section 2.11 of the draft Project
Agreement).  SMG proposes to convert the Yongsan Market into a market for
building materials and related dry goods.



- 18 -
SMG would establish a Steering Committee to undertake the prepara-
tory work leading to the establishment of GAMA. An assurance was obtained
that SMG would establish the Steering Committee by October 30, 1982 (Section
2.09(a) of the draft Project Agreement). The Committee would be responsible
for drafting GAMA's memorandum and articles of incorporation and rules and
regulations for operation of the market, together with preparing proposals for
an appropriate structure and levels of market rents and fees. Assurances were
obtained that SMG would forward these to the Bank for review and comment by
June 30, 1983 (Section 2.09(b) of the draft Project Agreement) and that SMG
would appoint a President, Business, Administration, and Technical Directors
for GAMA by September 30, 1983 (Section 2.09(c) of the draft Project
Agreement).
56.       A Board of Directors appointed by SMG would determine GAMA-s general
operating policies and procedures. The Board would be subject to guidance by
an Advisory Committee, consisting of representatives from the Government, SMG,
and other appropriate institutions. Input from the Advisory Committee would
be particularly pertinent on matters with ramifications beyond the physical
limits of the market. Assurances were obtained that by July 1, 1983 the
Borrower would appoint the Advisory Committee and that SMG would establish
GAMA not later than September 30, 1983 under memorandum and articles of
association acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement
and Section 3.01(a) of the draft Project Agreement). GAMA's role would be
basically a facilitating and supportive one, leaving trading and commercial
activities wholly in the hands of wholesale companies and jobbers; at least
four wholesale companies for fruits and vegetables, and two for fish would be
established at the Garag-dong Market. Traders at Yongsan Market have shown
keen interest in forming such wholesale companies. The wholesale companies
would be responsible for auctioning, on a commission basis, all the fish,
fruit, and vegetables that are amenable to grading, while the rest of the
vegetables would be traded in the truck sale area mainly through negotiated
sales. The buyers would be mostly jobbers buying on behalf of retailers on a
commission basis.
57.       A basic corporate objective of GAMA would be to generate from
rents and other market charges sufficient revenues to cover operating costs,
depreciation on the market buildings, facilities, machinery and equipment
and servicing of the Bank and other loans. Assurances were obtained to this
effect, and that GAMA would maintain separate financial records and accounts
which would be audited and submitted to the Bank annually. (Sections 3.03
and 3.05 of the draft Project Agreement). While GAMA would be concerned
specifically with the new market, the Authority's responsibilities might be
widened eventually to cover future newly constructed and/or rehabilitated
agricultural wholesale markets in Seoul or individual authorities might be
established for each market. An assurance was obtained that MAF would, on
request, provide the Bank with information concerning proposals for management
of agricultural wholesale markets (Section 3.04(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).



- 19 -
Project Cost and Financing
58.       The total project cost (including the capitalized front end fee)
is estimated at $102 million of which $50 million or 49% is foreign exchange.
The Government would be the borrower and would onlend $49.4 million to SMG
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement on the same terms as the Bank loan to the
Government. SMG would bear the foreign exchange risk. The balance of the
Bank loan of $0.6 million would be made available to MAF for financing the
costs of the marketing studies and overseas training. To ensure a timely and
continuous flow of funds, assurances were obtained that the Government would
cause SMG to set up a special account to service the project which would be
replenished by the Government at quarterly intervals to a level equivalent to
the estimated requirement for the next three months; and that the initial
credit to the account would be made by June 30, 1982 (Section 2.07 of the
draft Project Agreement and Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Establishment of the account and execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Government and SMG would be conditions of effectiveness of the
loan (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
59.       A single contract for the construction of the market complex and
installation of equipment and the construction of market-related roads and
underpass would be awarded to prequalified bidders following international
ccmpetitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. The value
of this contract, excluding physical contingencies and expected price
increases, would be about $52 million, or about 62% of the project base cost.
It is SMG-s policy to supply contractors with most of the material and
equipment to be incorporated in the works. Such materials and equipment would
be mostly procured on behalf of SMG by the Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
(OSROK). This policy has been applied successfully on many other Bank-
assisted projects in Korea. The total value of furnished materials, excluding
physical contingencies and expected price increases, would be about $26
million. Out of this total, reinforcing steel, cement, and various items of
specialized equipment with a value of about $12 million would be procured
following ICB according to Bank Group Guidelines. The remainder, consisting
of materials where ICB would clearly be impractical, namely ready-mixed
concrete ($5.6 million) and asphaltic concrete ($2.5 million), as well as
other building materials and supplies not exceeding about $500,000 in a single
contract and therefore of no interest to foreign bidders, would be procured
through local competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with SMG procurement
procedures which have been reviewed and are acceptable to the Bank. In
evaluating bids for materials and equipment obtained through ICB, a preference
limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the customs duty,
whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers.



- 20 -
Disbursement
60.       Disbursements for civil works would be at 45% of total expendi-
tures, to be disbursed against monthly contractors' progress payments. For
materials and equipment procured through ICB, disbursements would be at 100%
of expenditures for directly imported goods, or at 100% of ex-factory costs
for locally manufactured good and at 65% of the cost of imported goods
procured locally.  For the furnished materials and equipment procured
through LCB, disbursement would be at 85% of total expenditure and would
be limited to the supply of ready-mixed concrete and asphalt concrete;
there would be no disbursement against the many small LCB contracts for
materials. Prior review by the Bank would be required for contracts
eligible for Bank disbursement. Disbursements for studies and consulting
services would be at 50% of total expenditures or 100% of foreign exchange
costs. Disbursement of the Bank loan would be completed by December 31, 1984.
Accounts and Audits
61.       Assurances were obtained that SMG and MAF,would maintain separate
accounts for the project and that after audit by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, the project accounts, together with the auditors'
reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each
financial year (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 4.01 of
the draft Project Agreement).
Environmental Effects
62.       The project would not have any significant adverse environmental
impacts. A landscaping buffer would protect the residential area north of the
site from market-generated noises. Garbage would be compacted and hauled to
the municipal sanitary land fill. Effluent from the market would be treated
to a satisfactory quality level.
Project Benefits and Justification
63.       Financial Analysis and Cost Recovery.  Cash flow projections over a
25-year period have been worked out for the wholesale companies, jobbers, and
GAMA. For some of the jobbers, notably the fish jobbers, incremental net cash
flow would be negative during the first year of operation when the volume of
business is expected to be relatively low. However, the financial rate of
return would be attractive and would range from about 48% for the fish jobbers
to over 50% for the other jobbers. For wholesale companies the financial
rate of return would be over 45%. For GAMA, net cash flow would be positive
throughout the period, with net cash balances rising from W 1.1 billion
(US$1.6 million) during the first year of market operations to W 4.5 billion
(US$6.6 million) following the retirement of the Bank loan in the twelfth
year of market operations.  At full development in the third year, annual
gross revenues would be W9.7 billion (US$14.3 million) about 43% of which
would come from market fees, 35% from market rent, 12% from interest income on



- 21 -
security deposits which the wholesale companies are required to lodge with
GAMA, and 9% from sundry sources. While GAMA-s financial future looks strong,
an assurance was obtained that SMG would cover any deficits incurred by GAMA
(Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
64.       The project costs, consisting of investment and market operating
costs, would be recovered fully through the various revenues going to GAMA and
incremental tax revenues accruing to the Government. The improved organiz-
ational and administrative arrangements at the new market would help to reduce
tax evasion among the traders and enable the Government to collect taxes with
an incremental value, at full development estimated at W 21.4 billion
(US$31.2 million), with about 53% coming from corporate tax, 23% from value
added tax, 13% from defense tax, and the rest from miscellaneous taxes. The
combined net receipts accruing to GAMA and the Government become positive
during project's third year and when projected to cover a period of 25 years
and discounted by 15%, give a net present value of W 57.0 billion (US$83.2
million). The financial rate of return is 28%, and is only moderately
sensitive to changes in revenues or costs.
65.       Economic Analysis.  Annual incremental economic benefits at full
development would total W 46.1 billion ($67.3 million) arising from five
sources: (a) reduction in spoilage losses representing 26% of total
benefits; (b) improvement in product quality representing 37%; (c) reduction
in transport delays, representing 10%; (d) savings from backhauls representing
18%; and (e) Yongsan alternative land use representing 9%.
66.       Cost and benefits have been converted from financial to economic
values by applying Bank-estimated conversion factors: 0.80 for consumption
goods and standard conversion factor, and 0.90 for capital goods. The value
of rice production foregone from the 55 ha market site is taken at world
prices converted to domestic currency using the current market exchange rate
and adjusted for local transport, storage and handling costs. The value added
tax component of construction costs has been removed, as have tax elements of
operating costs of GAMA and market merchants. At a discount rate of 15%, the
estimated opportunity cost of capital in Korea, the economic net present
value of the project is W 40.5 billion ($59.1 million) and the economic
rate of return of the project is 25%. The sensitivity analysis shows that
the rate of return is more sensitive to the quality improvement benefit than
the other benefits.
67.       Other Benefits and Beneficiaries.  The proposed project would
serve as a guide for similar wholesale markets built in Seoul and the other
major cities in the country. The establishment of GAMA would help to
strengthen the institutional framework for the marketing of fruit, vegetables
and fish and serve as a model for market authorities in other cities. The
introduction of the auctioning system, the wholesale companies and jobbers,
coupled with improved marketing intelligence services, constitute major steps
towards a more competitive price formation mechanism. The proposed studies
would help to define more clearly and comprehensively national policies and



- 22 -
strategies to ensure that efficiency in the marketing subsector catches up
with the level of efficiency already achieved in the production subsector.
The employment impact of the project is difficult to estimate because of the
shifting, part-time or seasonal participation of many merchants and vendors
and the secondary employment impact of Yongsan and Garag-dong on surrounding
areas. Garag-dong Market can be expected to employ at least 5,000 people
directly in jobbers' stalls, wholesale companies, related items and retail
stalls, freezer storage, shipping services and GAMA itself.
68.       In addition to the Government, wholesalers and producers-shippers
would benefit directly from the project.   The expected reduction in
spoilage and the improvement of produce quality would result in a greater
amount of gross sale revenues, for a given volume of produce consigned to
the market, about 6% of which would go to the wholesalers as a commission
and the remainder to the producer - shipper. The benefits arising from the
reduction in transport delays and from savings in backhauls would also go to
the producer - shipper. The alternatively higher value of the Yongsan site
would accrue to the owners of the site; it would also benefit SMG through
higher property taxes. The extent to which the producers would directly
share in the project benefits would depend on the proportion of the
producers able to ship their produce directly to the wholesale market.
Risks
69.       Realization of the principal economic benefits such as commodity
quality preservation and reduced spoilage calls for a high standard of market
management which is not widely available in the country at the moment. The
proposed training program and overseas study tours are designed to minimize
management related risks. Some of the jobbers may be reluctant to move to
the new market where they would be subject to more efficient tax collection
and where it may take too long a period to build up a sufficient volume of
business. This risk would be minimized by setting rents and fees at an
attractive level compared to the going rates, by closing the Yongsan Market
upon completion of the new market, and by keeping the allocation of stalls
open to new entrants in the jobber trade.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan agreement between the Republic of Korea and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Seoul Metropolitan
Government and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. The special conditions of the Loan and Project
Agreements are referred to in the text and are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and



- 23 -
the SMG and the establishment of the Project Account by the SMG would be
conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 6.01 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
by: Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
March 5, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 24 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 1 o f 5
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA REPUBLIC OF                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE CES
LANID AKEA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                               - MDST RECENT ESTIMATEW
IOIAL              98.5                                  MOST RECENT            KIDDLE INCME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       22.6               1960  fr    1970 jb ESTIMATE fr           ASIA 4 PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (U59)                   I80.0        410.0    1480.0                  1136.1                   1616.2
ENERGY CUbbUMPTION PER CAPITA                                      *
(KILAUGAMS UF COAL EQUIVALENT)       261.1        772.6    1641.6                  1150.6                   1324.1
POPULATION ANO VITAL STATISTICS
PVPULAIIJN, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 25003.0        31923.0   37814.0
URBAN POPULATION  (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.7          40.7       53.4                   40.8                     64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATlUN IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         52.5
SIATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIUNS)                            72.0
YEAR STATIUNARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2065
POPULATIUN DENSITY
PER Sq. KM.                        253.8        324.1     383.9                   373.1                     34.3
PER S. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   1168.4         1358.4    1643.0                  2382.8                     94.5
PUPULATIUN AGE STRIUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                           42.9         42.1      35.1                    39.8                     40.7
i5-o4 YRS.                           53.8         54.6      61.1                    56.7                     55.3
b5 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.3          3.3       3.8                     3.5                      4.0
PUPULAIIUN GRUWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TUTAL                                2.1          2.4        1.9                    2.3                      2.4
URBAN                                4.7          6.3        4.9                    3.8                      3.7
CRUOE HIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       43.0         30.0       25.3                   29.7                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RAIE (PER THOUSAND)       13.5          9.4        7.9                    7.5                      8.4
G.RUSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.8          2.1        1.6                    1.9                      2.3
PAMILY PLANNING
ALCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        672.0     686.0
USERS (PERCENT UF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           32.0      49.1                    44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
UNDEX OF FOUD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-l100            89.0         99.0     144.0                   123.7                    108.3
PEh CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     94.0        110.0     119.0                   112.6                    107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            55.0         65.0      73.0                    62.5                     65.8
Of WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          7.0          8.0      15.0                    19.7                     34.0
CHICO (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       12.3          7.5        4.5                    4.8                      7.6
HEALiH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.2           59.5       63.4                   64.0                     64.1
INFANT MOKTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             62.0         43.0      37.0                    50.2                     70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WAIER (PERCENT OF
POPULATILUN)
IUTAL                               12.1         58.0      71.0                    45.9                     65.7
URBAN                               18.5         84.0      85.0                    68.0                     79.7
RURAL                                9.5         38.0      54.9                    34.4                     43.9
ACCLSS TO EXLRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF PUPULAIIUN)
TUfAL                                 ..         25.0       61.0                   53.4                     59.9
URBAN                                 ..         59.0      68.0                    71.0                     75.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..       50.0                   42.4                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            3539.5       2216.3    1986.1                  4428.7                   1728.2
PUPULAIION PER NURSING PERSON       3220.0/c    1768.9/c   553.2                   2229.7                   1288.2
POPULATION PER HUSPITAL BED
IUTAL                             2482.0       1930.3     643.8                   588.5                    471.2
URBAN                                 ..       1084.5     755.9                   579.6                    558.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                 1138.5
ADMISSlONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         14.9         ..                   36.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE UF HODSEhOLD
IOTAL                                5.6          5.5       5.3
URBAN                                5.4           ..
RURAL                                5.6           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.5          2.3        2.Oje
URBAN                                2.8          2.7        2. ILe
RURAL                                2.4          2.2        2.0/.
ACCEbS TU ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
UF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               28.4         49.9
URBAN                               67.3         92.4
RURAL                               12.4         29.9     .64.9



- 25-                                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA REPUBLIC OF                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOWE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDLCATIUN
ADJUSTtD ENROLLMENT RATIUS
PRL1JAKY:    TOTAL                  94.0        105.0      111.0                    99.8                     101.7
MALE                  99.0        106.0      L12.0                   100.6                     103.0
FEMALE                89.0        105.0      111.0                    98.8                     101.5
SECONDARY;   TUTAL                  27.0         43.0       74.0                    53.5                      35.3
MALE                  38.0         52.0       81.0                    58.4                      34.9
FEMALE                14.0         34.0       67.0                    48.6                      35.6
VOUATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  14.0           14.0       20.0                    21.1                      30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PKIMARY                             58.0         57.0       48.0                    34.2                      29.6
SELONDARY                           34.0         37.0       39.0                    31.7                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         70.6         87.6       93.0                    86.5                      80.0
CUNSUMPTI'N
PASSENGER CARS PER ThOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.5          1.9        6.2                    12.7                      42,6
xADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATIUN                          31.2        125.7      398.7                   174.1                     215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.3         13.1       95.9                    50.6                      89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENEKAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THUUSANU POPULATION                   69.0        137.7      196.1                   106.8                      62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0            5.0        1.8                     4.3                       3.2
LABuO  FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       8339.7      11173.8   14351.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    25.8         32.7       32.6                    37.4                      22.6
ACRILULTURE (PERCENT)               66.4         51.0       35.8                    50.2                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   9.3         20.1       30.1                    21.9                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 33.4         35.0       38.0                    40.2                      31.8
MALE                                  49.5         46.8       50.7                    49.8                      49.0
FEMALE                                17.2         23.0       24.9                    31.1                      14.6
ECON(*11L DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4          1.3        1.0                    1.1                       1.4
lNCOME DISTKIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF EOUSEHOLDS   15.1/d         17.1       16.1
HIHEST 20 PERCENT OF hOUSEHOLDS  42.3/d         44.5       45.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.7/d          7.1        5.7
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OFt HOUSEHOLDS   19.0d7        17.7       16.9
PUVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US0 PER CAPITA) -
URBlAN                                ..           ..      320.0                   248.6
KURAI                                 ..           ..      270.0                   193.7                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      370.0                   249.8                     513.9
RUKAL                                  ..          ..      310.0                   234.3                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATIUN BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URbAN                                  ..          ..       18.0                    21.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..       11.0                    32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Registered, not all practicing in the country; /d 1965; /e 1975.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population
estimates to be shown in the 1981 World Bank Atlas
are $1520 (at 1978-80 prices) and 38455 thousands.
May, 1981



-26 -                                                                 ANNEX I
Mm   at 0000C1.L 101479                                                              75aRe    I   o         5
Noti9   Alh.1.44 000 0d0. 0r  00000.00000              461   10.0.  04. "It0 .0ObooOtoOi"od                   It 0 1.0  o.ld 0.100 1. oOOod 00t t1407 007  -0  b. 10000.
C.ao001,o.o4).boo.. of t40 lok of sg..".Ooo*  .110. .0*t  t                    o- o09o -.Pt. d 17 di0ffol  o O    L. -oofl.oOIth01  4.t.  Me. *00= 00.  0
.4I.Vo. 00.f0  0. "-l.01   -otte. of o.fiOo*o. 0.410. t.00.4   R.0  MmoOOoo.00 Crolul  aloe 40 0.0.... b.0.0  o.000
74.0.1000       . 1 9  0r. (1) t40 00   000.0? stow0 of t10 =41.C 00t.07 Ved (2)  Coot0.           stoo   Il00710   -..0 t 1199.0  -0001  l0.00  0t.0 -. C0000  50000
of 040  lbJ.t 00t0    (-0.Pt, 9., "UP,00.  9oop1o  001  9.oo."00o   b.-o "041               -00  00-h MCI-o .4  X0441. L.-0  I.00.   100.00o.1 .....000o.
ooo00-o10o-1 aft0.1-1.)  L. C. .oftr... EC-,7 At.0  t.  -0oso   C00 0.0.1-.. _L.h.1.*001.1   00 0AC  f00 00,h 0*00.0t04A ob-  0.17 0100
300*i.o0. ofCol.. 000000.0 I. A         zoool.06. for that1.  o0008or  Sof.oo.       --S.o   0 of .-too.  70.. 000.oo  o0oI 0.1  .0.1.1 0 to       10 0100.1t . of t
LAW0 401  (t40.00d 08.0...)                                                                    ftpUctoo. V00 00001001 Rod - C.0.1.  ft-0.  RR  0.1 - 000.1.0t. (t.0tl.
T ..14 - 7.0.1 .or or 00-  0010.9..  I.Rd 0000 00d  WARS0 00000.                                00400. .0d-I 0.01>   d01    by1 t1000 00000001.   M00  of 1010.1 bd..
Atlltrl- 8o100. of .gOo..Ltwiol .000.0    00-00017 00 po-ooly                            001110bl  I0 p.110 Rod 0010... 10.0.  .0d opoILI.Ud b.000001 .0d oo-
f00 0000. p0400000. .0=k.t .0d 410.1o .. 04000 -0 C1I. f.11.; 1970 d.o..                     1.4llOoOlo  COOo..  Oo-oto10O.  000100.4000o too01  0.110
by 00 100.0.0. 707000140.  0000blib-,o  p00.1d1g p000p0lW  c.00t-
197 Pn 187071, (79   - GM  PoR  -Pit..WRt ...... . -.ooo  .oCk.. 70100. 00.1-                     d1.1 00-  00000  0014d.  R.001  00000.1.. 10000.  loll0*0 100.t0
oo.00..  by oO0  -oO.o.-oo       o -.0    W.C 414 look A.1.. (1277-78 10..): 1960,              0.4 .04001  0000  0  70000.001  I.ff1.  4  by          7000(b0t by7A
1970. ..  1979 d.0..                                                                            -d.41.1  .0000  000. .10.0..  t0.>) .40.0  f.0101-.0000
*0t000 .4  pooo4i    11100  rO-d.oo of -d.00.1 f.o1.11i.s.  F., .0.01.-
O00IM c0ws70o  rim 1.07T7  - A.-l.1   moooloo If o.o01 00CgY (o.1A                                 00.1 I.,I.o0..0700. 1001.. 000. Or00070.1f 10.00m 000.
00d IIWit.0.01.. ool0.I. 800 .0  1700-. 0.01o.0Ro  s-* bo40.01  I1.-                            A0* 0.00..   000,            .1:0   -L0 1000000.1. 00d  ".0*00  .4 0.000.t0
-000007) L. iL01.500of  -00. 00000010.  00000V1t; 1980. 1970, 0.0 1979                          S00...looO.I d. h.00101.00  1.  10*d. 0.17  -*0  -0.01
d.0..                                                                                         A*010000  00  R0.00t1  Rod   Tt.01r.o   of "1.1 -00.  toor 41.00100-
900   .090. dt0100  by 00         If400   bo..
1.001 00001010.  P1~oR (1oo.    A-U  of J.Ly 1; 1900. 1070. .04 1979                        0010
1010. 7o.,L1o  (ooro.  of 0.001)    0.4.1000  00 00001 o.ro.10ok;                              A 10-0.11  0000000  of A 8007Pf 0o4o1o.. W.1  h0...  110089000
41 fr... 4.10t00.. of .0b.0.- .07 offoat CoWo.4. 110iy of 4.00                                Rod t1010  1.10-I..0 A 4 10000- 10dg.   ? 00 0.7 000 0. 1001040d J.
_0.5  oor.0; 1960, 1970. .04 1979 d..                                                       0 o-.11   0  004001p.00
P00..000 701.oloo                                                     4=0050.0000  f 00000-0=  0000 .000.1~. 00b-. 00d 0-00  - 40R.000   0
Pooooloo     to 0 ,r 2000 - 0000000 7000.0t0. 00J.1 - 010 .00   1.4.d o  1980                 h.C 0f  .0000  700 000. 100.11 -010, 00d 00-01 .0...0 p        00.01d
P.0.1 -00100.0  -  f--00           t V0 000*000      t.0117 .0*  oIo.-J. 0000                           ..1l . 000.0001.1.100.0..0.-7000    0.000
to0 1if000.0         -:0000  forC .001107  rotb   -W.   P 1., 1..P1. .oooR-               Al....  ol.  =0000.itclM               Ii           o..-A.Ad-1
,_..1  00d 0001. 100f  ~.p-o0op *oobli.01. 0077.0 7000.  Th. 00R0'                          1000100.1 40.1100. 010h 01000010007  .0 Il1     q-tt-O. 05 p000.00t
_._; foo f.0.01t07 0'.0I0 01.00   04000 1.0.1..O             4.0100.                       If0 00.1. 00400. Rod  -.01 40011000 000900000.17.
f00011107 00000410  t0 100     1-01 Aod p.oo   41  01.0.01.  p-0000000..
AIR 00001100  C0loo    .   roOOl.  0.ro-.-..                                              04)mO04 0.01.10.  5.0100
5000000007: 000.000-   10C  lC 0000000  0000.01.00 Cho0. 1.0 o0 50,000 AARC.                  701... b0 1 - 00001  0:.10 .0  0001   - o-0.  -oo.0.. .0-  f.-L.
010 11h0 000. 10  91 0. 010  .00  -00...*Ad  l 01.00. 0   oooooo   o-                        .orI.00.0100   .  .  00:1_"0 1I.-1 0. P-C00..05. 000.000
0.10  0000000.0 Th.  to0100100 -l od Rl  .000  Eooslioy Coto  d-oLot. 00ol .oyo                             o-.s  pp70.0100;  -..011  1.0.104. Child-   A00d 6-.11
0.f Cobo1o l:      1it-1if 0.10 000    . 000.4010. 000. oso..ol 00.. 105                      `000C 100 0*1000  000oo 001000.01. -1-f prlo   .0.d0.000.; fo
-,0I-0'W   t001  4000. 0IfCo0f00   b.00.00100  t. P.0~.1.010                                  .1~. .0   "Pi.pl  00   .1.000 ob-v  00. oO         0  .00.01 000.
00 040 7000 2000.  0  010 0.000   000110.00000117 000.0.010. SAt*o,                                   0010.1-Aod1..1.              foO01o - 000000*d .. .10;   -.0o40l 
70000000 .       p0001.%,.0  L. l0oohd - T0. y00   b    0.1000  p0PL901-00                      700004.  5.000. ""0.'T".. 00 0-0010  Ir0.010   00000000  0.0 0098
0100 h bOO40   -001d.                                                                         .-01T If 1.2 00 17 Y0000 00 050;                                  2-00.000rol..00000111
P- 00. 60.-  014d.0  p00P1000- p.o "-.O kil-0    (100 4.000000>  f0                           I-   I0.1.0.1.0   0.00  .   000.7i-000101  .00                           -1
00.I0~;1960  1970 .0d41979 4.0..                                                             014   011.,1Oooi.,0   00   0.     .10.0 0000000 0.4d0p
70 0Pol      0=0100   .0      0.0   0010000 5001000 f                   1404                    001  00004000000000   00000400  1000t000000.
0017  190,  970o041870 d-0                                                            PouLl --0.OO   00000 -  00 7. 00  000004d-  - 70001 00040.00 =.1100 J.
too..oo  00 000000  000000-0  - Mil1d00  (0100  70000),  -kit-g.00  (15-                       PCL0.0-7y   .000d   0  1-01. d1,i4.* by  .oo- If 0o.0040  L.0lb.
60 70000).  0* 000100*  01 70000 0.4 0000) 00P000.00 Of---   .. ... 700 pp0         0000 d000  100.1.
700  700010000 00 1)0-0.  96170...  1871079.
0010.100.0  0.0  r0.0(-   0_0  - 0t015.00-oo  f.0.  p0-                             5000P70
1004. 000.0 0.0  (P., tloo.00) - 40.01a 1000 10001  000  b...00d0 0f olloo00000.5 10000.0 004   000)00140.0000                                                       ..
70p0.l1.000; 1960. 1970. .0  L979 4t.0.                                                       0100070..      000
-10.000000    .   bo.4    A--4.00d1050. P0' to4oOooo  of 01R00                                 00  00000  (00  00000 th        00.0Id 00000;i    - 11070  00 01.000 f00 0.dl0
70011.0.0; 160.107. o4 079 400..                                                      bOoodo.o    0 0.11M  I   =.lo  P.- 0-0.0  I  00001000.; .0.040   -.
100  OoodoI. UP      .0 J. - n. bg. .400f doooht.O   A            .111 boo  1                   IO.0oA001-000 ...  000.0010  004     70000010  009i00-00  0f 0041
1h000=0     - 0000000000    -1.0  if 0h.  otp1oo  orot-  .0.-op0oliO  f.-                     000.t 0 00 II1ffc; 4.00 for root   7-000  00 o. ho.r-bI. 00000
011070....-001.1 f0000.7000  000000.00.  0. 1960. 1070. .0d 1979.                             0.00 000000000010010   IUCIAL00.
00.10 1~.Pt100 - Aoooo.  m             (t10000.0d0 t- A00.1      Or of 00009000               17  .00.0    ("Co tbI000  000010i0) .- TV 00001.0-  forbVo 1        ...40   00t
F 1. AND  00         0   000000000.                                                              .1b.000il0   if.1it 9=01  000    00090.  401f0I.-: 00o.00 701401
I,d- If 71" Plld-I  =p.1:L,(I9?6 ~  ~         ~        ~        ~        .110100000.L00J7 - Lod-00 0I.040. --I00M  00o.10C140.0.4.of
to I. 0.10.40  700  1040.  C-0d1t0- 0000  0010.0  50d. (0.5. 0W040                            004 0bi.41.01..
000-0  If 00000) 0000  -0  0b.141 o00  0000.0.  -.00000   (o.o. _0=f- 004
00  00=00**1   000000000Cot  700400000  00 000  000.00  to 10.04 0.
0001.00.  00005  004-d-000 pr .1900  1041-65. 1970. 004 1979 40..                            00   .0   or  0000.     000111   0000000   01*0
F.0 0.00 0.010 0  :01000  00.00   0.0..0    C.*o  tor.                                       00.4d f.....  ..  o,oRpi.y  40.00104I100          0000,00000.00.
0000001010  00  .00 0.4 007110  00 b1.41  L. 00000  p.0090.                                 0000000  p.pol.Io.o of 0.11 0000.  00010101000 00  -00.0  0.0000
p. -107   01..11   oPplioo Coo,ooO 400001  P0*d00.i. 00000  I000                     00   00010)10,17  0417t.0
9.0010000*0 0h4     too  700000.. 00* 1.. . 10o 4.0Lu.0100. 0.00.-                  -4100         00.0 1-1. 100 boo   0001.0000.  000   0
000000   0.1.00*17  00  0.* 0  74010.00010000 00  0.0.1  000L..1 A. ..70009000f .-I0  1b.ob   =0000; 10.1970 .0d 1879 400
t07.*100    -00.47.01     o.fltC  .   OOouo 4-.4 body         00  ago              7040000  >0000) -Ib.4   00000 0 .10.15   . 000.00C0000.  -f-000010
.04 00     tibt. 4100 f000   70001.01.. 0-* 0110000  10 7000.t =00 000000                  .0* A10o00t 00.i"   _t0000 :   00 S.   p.-t0.05  of t.01 1b0100=000.; 1040.
40.0.010 1..1; 191-4).1970. .04 1977 4.0..                                           1970 .04 1879 4.0.
70   010 0100  0000. 10 (a00       AT04) - P-0C." 0.00.0,0  p 7000010               7R0110010             (0000.0.V) - t0-0l. .a1., .0  feb   - P0000010-010000
000 .0p.l1  of 0004 7    .7   90   Y.01  of f.4 00 401f1.0  00 .4...  R.-              *     "0010  00t    000  0000         .0.01  ..1.. 0.400-1. 10100 100000
90.04   0  011  00000.       bl.4 b.1d 4, 054  0014  000  L.A..0                      p.           If080   00001, .01.00   00.1a.  I.o1o. f  UI 000  Oo.0007
.1.1-..   of 600000 0r f-.L.  -ol.O1  p' doy .4  20 0000 00 ooO1 .0d                        1960. 1970. 0.d 1979 4t.0.  T7100.000 oo 10004 L0 0,  p.00t01000100 00000
po.1.o p0000   0= 11    10 EC000 A.10.141b  001m   700.10f.  T10.".9.0-                     001000109o 010-00  00   I00 f t4  p.701000.0. 004 1001 0t0 t0.4.  A
00*0 0=0 1000 010  040.  of 75 g500000  0000  700001. 004 235s00 of                          f_.t0      o 00100000  00.- 000001  .00000..
00100.17P00100.l 00000  f100l40 0014. 70-90000 by  4A0 10 010 WCd0                         O0olooLoC O.o04o  9.0-  -0.L000 0=f 00.0004- 1.5 AM 65 00W0.
700 0000.0000.. 00010 000 0000d 0.7                                                    t. 0  .P.01-.09170   .14.
010*000000010  04000                      P..00  0  4.7  101"145. 1970 AM* 177.4.0..        .071309
C101d14 (.o.1-4              = -0.00  00  (0  04to.o*A  - A0001 4-001  P.0100041              P.0-.0d.to  00 0000.- 0000r   (bth1 to 00 d0 401       ) - 0 .00.4 I l  010.40o
.:0-:00P 1"  70.00  00011400  10 0b10 000 00000  f-  .0  0001.  0                            5 000.00,C 0001.t 20       _troo. p7,00000 10 p.00t. 0d 7000000 40 00000.0
0010  4.. d00000  1000 1100 0041; 19600. 1970 .4  1979 4.00.                                  000.0.101..
.1. .0.000,0 0101,:tk 100-)   *-`4`0.0.4000=t yoo. 01 11l0  -004100                          Tho  .1..   oOo.o.   0007 07001000  00000   00 -000   L.-.1.
0101;16. .57  0   0940..    1.4                                                                    14100004100d         oO00k.o00o
0f000.000(  (100400000-0000    00000000 I00..0000000000*                                    .0.00 .100..          O.   10000. I.001 (-0 I.1  0000)t  4010  A0  00001o
0.00  000.000  000  000004  00001..  70050  04 0*000700t0)001001  01.0 -00q-0  000.  100. -0 o. f0d ofno.:  70  070
00000000  0  000100000,0  00.1000.   0 0  0400*0o0  .k00poronl 000   ofoh  oooo'7.00001001 ff4000*  00  00  ToO
0000000000.00060  0000. 00  0.000000200  00.0  0.d  10000-.-0.710               1.0.1 010  otI-~ P      000t  I-10 Loot of lOO   1  401i.0 -   0b00d.     -
0.00.17'. 0000000040.                                                         .1-       mtO
do   00 U 0.1.(0001.n      000 A 4  ooOi       f Ooo0   "Y L0.0.4000.01 ko                  P
700"0.0   Af000OO0Ov   .0.000    000.4000   0  10.1040
h.0 -0011-01000.         ol.-h.    h.,                    .fh o           ..9                                                            1       9y -1.91 .  ,ii
7000 _00     l by 0170100.       -            Pt01.0040040    by t, 00   7000100 d 71701'                                    .oo     GLTI     d        J.
L0..0 . 90010100  00     .00..10  0   00000  101
I.1 . .0* 0     1 0  -0 004000000   I..011 d0.0000b    ob. .4 f000000000.0.



Anncx c
Population:  38,445 (mid-1980, thousands)                                 - 27                                                      Page 4
GNP Per Capita: US$1,516 (1980)
KOREA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                          Annual growth rates (X) at coastant prices
current prices)                               Actual                                    Projected
Indicator                              1980/a              1976       1977       1978       1979       1980/a      1981       1985       1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product               59,177              13.9       10.1       11.3        7.1       -3.4         6.2        7.6        8.0
Agriculture                         9,754              10.7        2.1       -4.0        6.7      -22.0        24.0        2.5        2.5
Industry                           24,396              20.1       15.8       20.8        8.4       -0.4         4.0       10.0       10.0
Services                           25,027              10.8        9.7       11.0        6.0        2.4         1.4        7.0        7.0
Conisumption                         45,215               8.8        7.1       11.0        7.4       -0.9         2.3        4.8        6.4
Gross investment                     17,889               8.0       24.0       35.9       17.5      -24.3        10.9        8.5        7.6
Exports of GNFS                      21,145              43.0       25.7       17.5       -3.6        9.6        11.6       11.0       10.6
Imports of GNFS                      25,846              26.9       23.8       29.1        8.6       -6.8         7.7        7.4        8.8
Gross national savings               12,268              42.3       17.3       14.9        2.4      -19.5         -          -          -
PRICES
GDP deflator (1975 = 100)                               116.3      135.8      164.6      197.4      250.3         _          _          _
Exchange rate (US$1 =)                                  484.0      484.0      484.0      484.0      607.6         -          -          -
Export price index (1975 - 100)                         112.8      120.2      137.2      161.2      168.7       179.9      240.9      321.1
Import price tndex (1975 = 100)                         103.0      103.9      108.4      137.3      175.2       170.2      233.5      316.6
Terms of trade index (1975 = 100)                       109.5      115.7      126.6      117.4       96.3       105.7      103.2      101.4
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                        Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices)                                   (at constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990          1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product             100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0             8.6         9.8       8.2        7.3        7.7
Agricuilture                      36.7    26.9    24.5    16.5    15.9    12.4             4.3        4.9       -1.2        5.3        2.5
Industry                          20.1    29.5    33.8    41.3    44.4    49.2            17.4       15.3       13.5        9.1       10.0
Services                          43.2    43.6    41.7    42.3    39.7    38.3             8.1        7.7        7.6        6.2        7.0
Consumption                       85.3    83.0    80.1    76.4    65.7    58.1             6.7        7.8        7.1        4.8        6.1
Gross investment                  11.0    26.9    29.0    30.2    33.2    33.8            23.6       11.2       14.6        9.2        8.8
Exports of GNFS                    3.4    14.3    27.6    35.7    43.7    49.6            29.3       25.4       16.1       10.9       10.5
Imports of GNFS                   12.8    24.1    36.3    42.7    42.6    43.9            20.2       15.8       17.0        7.2        8.4
Cross national savings /b          8.0    19.5    20.6    21.7        -        -          17.2       14.6        -          -          -
As % of GDP
1960       1970       1975       1980         Labor Force in 1980          Millions    (%)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                               Agriculture                   4.7       32.2
Current revenues                           18.5       17.8       17.9       19.9           Industry                      3.9       27.1
Current expenditures                       14.3       13.1       15.4       15.6           Services                      5.1       35.5
Current surplus                             4.2        4.7        2.5        4.3           Unemployed                    0.7        5.2
Capital expenditure                         3.4        6.4        6.4        5.9
Foreign financing                           ...        1.0        1.3        1.0               Total Labor Force        14.5      100.0
1960-70          1970-75           1975-80          1980-85           1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                                  8.7               9.0               7.9              7.5               8.0
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                        5.9              6.9               5.2              5.9               6.4
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                  14.2               9.6              12.3/c            7.7               ...
ICOR                                                        1.9               2.7              5.4               4.7               4.4
Marginal savings rate                                       0,3               0.3               0.3              0.5               0.4
Import elasticity                                           2.2               1.6              2.0               1.0               1.1
/a Preliminary.
/b Including net transfers.
/c 1975-79.
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
October 1981



-28-                                                   Annex I
Page S of 5
Population        38,445 (mid-1980, thousands)
GDP per capita:  US$1,516 (1980)
KOREA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
Indicator                                                      Actual                                       ProJected
1970    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980/a    1981    1S    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services         1,379   5,909   9,467  13,059  17,124  19,523  22,497    27,114  55,074 121,077
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.          982   5,029   7,921  10,035  12,678  14,694  17,212    20,846  43,368  97,476
Imports of goods and services         2,180   7,992  10,119  13,272  18,651  24,115  28,638    32,848  59,810 119,694
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.        1,804   6,671   8,407  10,517  14,436  19,266  21,972    24,508  45,557  95,014
Net transfers                           178      225      345      222      467      439     454        495      668      893
Current account balance                -623  -1,858    -307          8  -1,060  -4,153  -5,687    -5,415  -3,968  +2,276
(9 of GNP)                            (-7.2)  (-9.2)  (-1.1) (+0.02)  (-2-2)  (-7.1)  (-9.9)    (-8.2)  (-3.3)  (+3.1)
Direct investment                         66      53       75       72       61       17       -7         30     800   1,749
MLT loans (net)                         242   1,252   1,238   1,458   2,746   2,944   1,694           3,280   3,821   6,019
Official                              147      486      663      594     663      853      864      1,108      893      908
Prtvate                                95      765      575      864   2,083   2,090       831      2,173   2,927   5,111
Other capital                            372     929      308    -167  -1,039   2,090   4,862         2,479   1,682  -7,436
Change in reserves                      -57    -376  -1,314  -1,372    -707    -898    -863            -843  -1,348  -2,611
International reserves                  610      797   1,985   2,992   2,828   3,112   3,975          4,818   9,352  19,370
Reaerves as :onths imports              3.4      1.2      2.4      2.7      1.8      1.5     1.7        1.7      1.8      1.9
EXTER'IAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Cross disbursements
OfFicial grants                         -        -        -        -        -        -       _
Concessional loans                    123      123      238      163      184     193      138
DAC                                 122      108      226      132     167      173      121
OPEC                                  -        -        -       21       13      20       17
IDA                                   1       14       10        9        3       -        -
Other                           -     -        1        2        1        -       -        -
Non-concessional loans                317   1,511   1,518   2,040   3,729   4,448   3,306
Official export credits              18      151      132      262     219      341      614
IBRD                                  7      189      286      190     321      426      248
Other multilateral                    5       87       83       85      89       91       90
Private                             287   1,083   1,017   1,503   3,101   3,591   2,353
Medium- and Long-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                         1,797   5,540   6,817   8,593  11,937  14,553  16,585
Official                            613   2,657   3,359   4,121   5,016   5,667   6,531
Private                           1,185   2,883   3,458   4,472   6,921   8,886  10,054
Undisbursed                           902   1,629   3,459   4,793   6,294   5,337  11,293
Debt Service on MLT Loans
Total service payments                268      667      910   1,201   1,827   2,634   3,192
Interest                            70      283      392     475      659      936   1,442
Payments as % exports                19.4    11.3       9.6      9.2    10.7    13.5    14.2
Short-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                           ...   2,409   3,045   3,239   3,575   6,279  10,047
Interest payments                     ...      ...      ...      152      236     377      907
Interest as X exports                  ...     ..       ...      1.2      1.4      1.9     4.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans (2)
Official                              4.5      7.9      7.1      7.9      7.4     7.6        -
Private                               7.1      9.3      9.3      8.4      9.7    11.5        -
Average Maturity of New Loans (years)
Official                             28.0    19.3    21.7    18.3    19.2    16.8             -
Private                              10.9      5.7      8.7      8.8      9.3     9.3        -
As % of debt outstanding
at end of most recent
year (1980)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within  5 years                           35.6
Maturities due within 10 years                           61.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                            6.3
/a Preliminary
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
December 1981



- 29                                ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12 pages
KOREA
T1UE STATUS OF BANYK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1981)
Loan or                                                                                Amount ($ million)
Credit       Calendar                                                                 (less cancellations)
Number         Year         Borrower             Purpose                         Bank      TW    IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty-nine loans and eight credits fully disbursed                            1,221.52  40.0  106.81
1096          1975    Republic of Korea        Education III                      22.5                         0.11
1203          1976    Republic of Korea        Ilighways III                      90.0                         2.02
1319          1976    ADC                      Irrigation                         29.0                        15.83
1364          1977    ADC                      Irrigation                         95.0                        45.89
1401          1977    Republic of Korea        Ports II                           67.0                        32.90
1474          1977    Republic of Korea        Vocational Training                23.0                         5.04
1503          1978    ADC                      Agriculture/Irrigation             36.0                        29.35
1507          1978    SMIB II                  Dev. Finance Co.                   55.0                         0.07
1530          1978    Republic of Korea        Rural Infrastructue II             95.0                        37.29
1542          1978    Republic of Korea        Railway VI                        120.0                         1.40
1574          1978    KDB III                  Dev. Finance Co.                  110.0                         1.44
1635          1978    KLTCB                    Dev. Finance Co.                  100.0                         4.93
1640          1978    Republic of Korea        Highways IV                       143.0                        94.84
1666          1979    Republic of Korea        Chungju Multipurpose              125.0                        78.39
1676          1979    Republic of Korea        Electronics Technology             29.0                        14.89
1749          1979    SMIB III                 Dev. Finance Co.                   60.0                         7.63
1758          1979    Republic of Korea        Second Gwangju Regional            65.0                        59.83
1774          1979    Republic of Korea        Population I                       30.0                        30.00
1788          1979    Korea Electric Co.    Power                                115.0                       114.48
1800          1980    Republic of Korea        Education V                       100.0                        98.59
1829          1980    CNB I                    Dev. Finance Co.                   30.0                        23.29
1836          1980    Republic of Korea        Railway VII                        94.0                        61.56
1851          1980    AFDC                     Agriculture II                     50.0                        41.87
1932          1981    KLTCB VIII               Div. Finance Co.                   90.0                        76.84
1933          1981    KDB IV                   Div. Finance Co.                  100.0                        83.82
1974          1981    Republic of Korea        Third Agriculture Credit           50.0                        50.00
1980          1981    Republic of Korea        Nat. Urban Land & Housing          90.0                        90.00
2004          1981    SMIB IV                  Dev. Finance Co.                   60.0                        60.00
Total                                                            3,295.02  40.0  106.81   1,162.30
of which has been repaid                                         236.42   -        2.79
Total now outstanding                                            3,058.60  40.0  104.02
Amount sold                        8.83
of which has been repaid         8.17                              0.66   -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                                 3,057.94  40.0  104.02
Total undisbursed                                                1,162.30   -        -       1,162.30



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                                          Amount ($ million)
Year     Obligor                 Types of Business             Loan  Equity Total
1968   KDFC                       Development Financing           -     0.7    0.7
1969   Honam Silk Co.             Textiles                       1.4    0.3    1.7
1970   Atlas Paper                Pulp and paper                 4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.7    0.7
1974   KDFC                       Development Financing           -     0.4    0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.3    0.3
1975   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products             16.0    1.3   17.3
1975   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development  5.0    0.6    5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.            Synthetic Fibers              6.9    2.1    9.0
1975   Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.       Tourism                       2.8    0.7    3.5
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.4    0.4
1976   Chungju Paper Mfg. Co.   Paper                            5.0    0.5    5.5
1976   Korea Zinc. Co., Ltd.    Zinc                            15.0    4.0   19.0
1976   KDFC                       Development Financing         17.8     -    17.8
1976   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products             10.0    0.4   10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -     0.2    0.2
1977   KDFC                       Development Financing           -     0.3    0.3
1977   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                 -      0.5    0.5
1977   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.            Capital Market               15.0    0.4   15.4
1978   KDFC                       Development Financing           -     1.1    1.1
1979   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      1.7    1.7
1979   KIPC                       Capital Market                  -     0.6    0.6
1979   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.                                           -      0.2    0.2
1979   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -     1.5    1.5
1980   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      1.8    1.8
1980   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                 -      0.6    0.6
1980   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.                                           -      0.8    0.8
1980   KDFC                       Development Financing           -      2.2    2.2
1981   Taihan Bulk Terminal       Grain Port Terminal            7.0    2.5    9.5
Co., Ltd.
Total gross commitment                                 106.4   27.3  133.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                   65.1    3.7   68.8
Total commitments now held by IFC                       41.3   23.6   64.9
TOTAL undisbursed                                        4.2      .5    4.7
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1 AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; $29.0 Million Loan
of August 5, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project comprises irrigation and land development on 10,350 ha
together with river channel improvement and village roads. The project area
has been reduced from 12,665 ha at appraisal as a result of deleting about
2,300 ha of land development which, because of the sharp escalation in
construction costs, have become uneconomic. The project has been divided
into eight subprojects, each to be constructed under a separate contract.
One of these subprojects has been completed, and three more will be completed
by mid-1984; loan disbursements will be limited to these four subprojects.
The remaining four will be financed entirely by the Government and will be
completed by 1986.
Loan No. 1364    Yon  San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of February 11, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land development on 19,050
ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River. Project works include an
estuary dam, sea dike, pumping plants, irrigation canals, reclamation of
5,500 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 1,200 ha of uplands for irrigation of
paddy, land consolidation on 4,600 ha, and irrigation of 1,050 ha of uplands.
The main contract for the estuary dam construction, awarded in December 1977,
is virtually complete. Other parts of the project have fallen behind due to
a shortage of local budget. The Bank and the Government recently agreed that
loan disbursements would be limited to the eight subprojects under implemen-
tation and scheduled for completion by mid-1984 and that the Government would
provide all funds to carry out and complete the remaining subprojects by the
end of 1985.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1503    Ogseo Area Development Project - Stage I; $36.0 Million
Loan of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 29, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project will provide irrigation and draiange improvements for
11,000 ha, including 5,200 ha of land consolidation and 1,900 ha of land use
conversion from upland to paddy. The project has been divided into seven
subprojects, each to be constructed under a separate contract. Insufficient
budgetary allocations have delayed the project from its start in 1978, but
the Government has now approved a funding program which will allow completion
of five subprojects by 1984 and Bank disbursements will be limited to these
subprojects. The remaining two subprojects will be financed entirely by the
Government and will be completed by the end of 1986.
Loan No. 1530    Rural Infrastructure Project II; $95.0 Million Loan of
March 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 8, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes about 46 minor irrigation, 8,300 river
training and 7,400 water supply subprojects as well as a rural telephone
program. The river training and rural telephones components were completed
on schedule in 1979 and the water supply component was completed in 1980.
Design work on the minor irrigation component is complete. The total area
of the irrigation subprojects has been finalized at 9,192 ha. Contracts
have been awarded for all 36 subprojects but construction progress is slow
due to shortfalls in local budget allocations.
Loan No. 1851    Second Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$50 Million Loan of June 27, 1980; Effective Date:
September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1984:
The project would support investments in Korea's agroprocessing
subsector. Enterprises engaged in freezing and cold storage, canning,
drying, pickling and other preservations of fruits, vegetables, meat and
fisheries products, oil and extraction, processing of grain based foods, raw
silk spinning, and production of fruit juice based beverages, dairy products,
and animal feeds would be the main subborrowers. The project will benefit
the farmers through widening their market opportunities, provide increased
supplies, better quality and larger variety of processed food throughout the
year to consumers, and create about 5,000 additional jobs. The project
would also contribute to the institutional strengthening of the Agriculture
and Fishery Development Corporation (AFDC). Sublending is progressing well.
Loan No. 1974    Third Agricultural Credit Project;  $50 Million Loan of
May 13, 1981; Effective Date: August 11, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
The project would help increase of (a) production of high-value
fruits and vegetables; (b) farm productivity; and (c) off-season employment.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12 pages
Over the four-year period, the project would provide credit nationwide for
financing a wide range of activities, notably: greenhouses, sprinkler
irrigation, on-farm storage, chilled storage, spraying equipment, small-
scale agro-processing and backyard livestock. The project was declared
effective in August 1981 and implementation is underway.
Multipurpose
Loan No. 1666    Chungju Multipurpose Project; $125.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: July 11, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial and irrigating water in the Han Basin for about 20 years
following its completion in 1984, and would substantially reduce flood
damage, and generate an average of 770 million kilowatt hours annually for
Korea's power system. The principal features of the project are a 90 m high
concrete dam and a 450 MW power plant on the South Han River, a reregulating
dam about 20 km downstream of the main dam, relocation of roads and a rail-
way, and implementation of a resettlement program for some 9,300 families
affected by the project. The contract for the main dam and power plant was
awarded in December 1979 and construction is proceeding on schedule. The
major accomplishments to date are completion of the excavation of the slide
zone on the right bank-and diversion of the river through the left bank
tunnels. Detailed planning is underway for the resettlement program.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1507    Second Medium Industry Bank Project; $55.0 Million Loan of
January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 10, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides $55.0 million to be used by SMIB to help cover
the foreign exchange requirements of industrial subprojects. A portion of
the loan - $20.0 million - was earmarked to assist small-scale, labor-
intensive subprojects creating employment at a gross capital cost per job
not greater than $6,000 or enterprises whose fixed assets are not greater
than $250,000. Funds have been entirely committed and final disbursement
will be made shortly.
Loan No. 1574    Third Korea Development Bank Project; $110 Million Loan of
June 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB; apart from direct imports, the
loan would be utilized by KDB to finance the foreign exchange component of
domestically produced capital goods. An amount of up to $10.0 million of
the proceeds of the loan was made available to KDB's subsidiary, the Korea
Industrial Leasing Corporation Ltd. (KILC), by way of subloans in order to
finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects. Progress is good.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1635    Seventh Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$100.0 Million Loan of December 7, 1978; Effective Date:
February 6, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan was made to cover the foreign exchange requirements of
subprojects to be financed by KDFC over the years 1979 and 1980. In order
to support relatively labor-intensive enterprises, a component of $20 mil-
lion was earmarked for financing specifically: (a) enterprises with fixed
assets not exceeding $750,000; or (b) projects generating employment at a
fixed investment cost per job not greater than $12,500. Also, in order to
finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects, an amount of up to
$10.0 million of the proceeds of the loan was made available to the Korea
Development Leasing Corporation (KDLC), a leasing company affiliated to
KDFC, by way of subloans. Progress is good and only about 6% of funds are
still to be disbursed.
Loan No. 1676    Electronics Technology Project; $29.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project comprises two components: (a) the development of Korea
Institute of Electronic Technology (KIET) which, through its service, devel-
opment and production activities, would stimulate and support the Korean
electronics industry's drive into new areas; and (b) the establishment of a
program to promote and finance RD&E carried out by KIET for the electronics
industry. Project implementation was about 18 months behind schedule due to
delays in procurement and shortage of local funds. However, the semiconduc-
tor facility, which is the main physical component of the project, has
recently been completed and started up in November 1981. KIET-s work program
has been prepared with input from industry. The training and expert invita-
tion program has been implemented satisfactorily. Recently some shortage of
counterpart funds has affected the project and proposed institutional
changes have given rise to concern; these matters are under discussion with
the Government.
Loan No. 1749    Third Small and Medium Industry Bank Project; S60 Million
Loan of July 23, 1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979,
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan would be
utilized by SMIB to finance the foreign exchange component of domestically
produced capital goods. To ensure that a reasonable proportion of the loan
is directed towards small, labor-intensive projects, an amount of $25 mil-
lion of the proceeds of the loan will be earmarked to finance: (a) enter-
prises with fixed assets not exceeding $300,000; or (b) projects generating
employment at a fixed investment cost per job not greater than $8,500. The
loan would assist SMIB in its efforts to support the Government's policy of
increasing the regional dispersal of employment opportunities and of deep-
ening the industrial structure, and also to continue SMIB support of projects
which would complement large-scale manufacturing enterprises. Progress is
good.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1829    Citizens National Bank (CNB); $30 Million Loan of May 7,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The loan is being used to cover part of the foreign exchange
requirements of subprojects to be financed by the Citizens National Bank
(CNB) over a two year period, and would assist CNB in its efforts to support
the Government's policy in increasing regional dispersal of employment
opportunities and of deepening the industrial structure. Apart from direct
imports, the proceeds of the loan are being utilized by CNB to finance the
foreign exchange components of domestically produced capital goods. The
project would also enable the Bank to help build up CNB-s project appraisal
capabilities. Sublending is progressing well.
Loan No. 1932    Eighth Korea Long-Term Credit Bank Project; $90.0 Million
Loan of January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 19, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KLTCB over the next two years. In
order to encourage increased mobilization of medium-term foreign commercial
borrowings by KLTCB, the loan incorporates a special amortization feature,
which would permit the blending of Bank and commercial resources. The
project incorporates a package of financial sector policy measures which
would be implemented by the Government as a part of a comprehensive reform
of the financial system of Korea.
Loan No. 1933    Fourth Korea Development Bank Project; $100 Million Loan
of January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 19, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB over the next two years. In
order to encourage a reduction in KDB's reliance on long-term official
borrowings, the loan incorporates a special amortization feature, which
would permit the blending of Bank and commercial resources. The project
incorporates a package of financial sector policy measures which would be
implemented by the Government, as a part of a comprehensive reform of the
financial system of Korea.
Loan No. 2004    Fourth Korea Small and Medium Industry Bank Loan;
$60.0 Million Loan of July 7? 1981; Effective Date:
September 1, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange
requirements of subprojects to be financee by SMIB over the next two years.
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan are being utilized by
SMIB to finance the foreign exchange components of domestically produced
capital goods (estimated at 60%).  The loan ass.sts SMIB in its efforts to



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12 pages
support the Government's policy of increasing the productivity of Korea's
small- and medium-scale industrial sector which plays a vital role in
providing employment opportunities and in assisting the country's export
effort. It also initiates an attempt to improve and expand extension
services for the SMI sector.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1774    Population Project;$30 Million Loan of December 27, 1979;
Effective Date: March 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project will assist the Government to reduce fertility over the
next five years, and simultaneously reduce infant and maternal mortality,
particularly in rural areas. It is estimated that about 10 million people
would be provided primary health care services under the project. Progress
is being made on a number of fronts. Training to convert unipurpose into
multipurpose workers is going on, the development of curricula for midwifery
training is advancing, workshops have been conducted and coordinators
appointed. Designs for the civil works are being prepared. Although some
delays in training have occurred, this has been due to budget constraints
rather than to managerial problems. The budget allocations made by the
Government for 1980 and 1981 correspond to only about 10% of the amounts
required. This implies-a delay of at least one year in project execution.
The Government has indicated that it plans to compensate for the shortfall in
1982. Project management is coping with this situation well and is trying to
make do with the funds available.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 22, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project includes the establishment of eight new Vocational
Training Institutes (VTIs), equipment for a National Central Vocational
Training Institute (NCVTI) and technical assistance to be provided by UNDP
and Germany. After an initial delay implementation is now on schedule. All
civil works contracts have been awarded. Six VTIs are now in operation.
About 80% of equipment has been awarded and about 60% delivered. All experts
are in post and the fellowship program has been completed. Management
performance has also improved.
Loan No. 1800    Higher Technical Education; $100.0 Million Loan of
February 21, 1980; Effective Date: April 7, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is the Bank's first subsector loan in education. It
finances public and private institutions in higher technical education and
will be approximately allocated as followed: $60 million for engineering,
$36 million for technicians and $4 million for technical assistance. The



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12 pages
project includes about 10 national programs for staff and curriculum develop-
ment and 55 subprojects for equipment. The objectives of the project are:
(a) to alleviate manpower problems, (b) to improve quality and (c) to reduce
the investment gap between public and private institutions. Initial imple-
mentation of the project is satisfactory with all 10 national programs and
55 subprojects already prepared. Management capability for implementation
has been strengthened with additional staff. Actual performance on teacher
recruitment is about the same as planned.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1758    Second Gwangju Regional Project; $65.0 Million Loan of
September 27, 1979; Effective Date: February 15, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Implementation on the Second Gwangju Regional Project is underway
satisfactorily. The physical works have been divided into 15 subprojects.
Civil works contracts for two subprojects (Mogpo Water Supply and Gwangju
Industrial Estate Access Road) were awarded in December 1979 and
construction works are on schedule. Contract awards for two subprojects
were made in October 1980 and another seven in December. Detailed designs
for the remaining subprojects have also been completed but bid award has
been postponed to 1981 primarily due to budgetary problems. Progress on
implementation of the aquaculture development program has been slow due to
staffing changes in the National Federation of Fisheries Cooperatives
(NFFC). Preparation of Terms of Reference for various studies under the
Technical Assistance Program are underway. On the whole, project
implementation is satisfactory, though rapid escalation in construction
costs in Korea is expected to cause a cost overrun of about 37%.
Loan No. 1980    National Urban Land Development and Housing Project;
$90.0 Million Loan of May 13, 1981; Effective Date:
August 11, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The objectives of the project are to provide housing for low-
income families and to further develop the capabilities of the major public
institutions serving the housing sector, namely KLDC and KNHC. These
objectives are to be pursued in the context of an ongoing dialogue on
housing policy issues between the Bank and the Korean Government which will
be intensified through the technical assistance and housing sector study to
be financed from this loan. The project includes development of about
380 ha of urban residential land in ten medium-sized cities including
off-site infrastructure, construction of about 8,500 housing units for
low-income households, community and commercial facilities and technical
assistance covering staff training, professional services, project
preparation, studies and monitoring and evaluation.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12 pages
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1203    Third Highway Project; $90.0 Million Loan of February 20,
1976; Effective Date: May 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignments, including paving, of about 195 km of four
national highways, including supervision of the work by consultants;
(b) paving and improvement, chiefly on present alignments, of nine national
highways totaling about 600 km, including supervision of the work by
consultants; and (c) feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of
national and provincial roads, to be followed by detailed engineering. All
contracts for construction and paving were completed by June 1979. Feasi-
bility studies by consultants were completed in 1980 and a contract for
detailed engineering has been negotiated. Disbursements are nearing
completion. The Saudi Fund for Development is providing a loan of $35
million to assist in financing the project.
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Million Loan of April 28, 1977;
Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The project consists of: (a) a 700 m extension of container
berths being financed under the First Ports Project and a 335,000 sq m
expansion of the container stacking area provided under that project with
ancilliary works; rehabilitation of piers 3 and 4, the central wharf, and
lighter wharf No. 5; (b) procurement of container cranes, mobile container
handling equipment, and tugboats; (c) Engineering Consultant Services and
(d) Technical Assistance and Training. Contracts for the extension of
container berths and for rehabilitation of pier No. 4 and lighter wharf No.
5 were let in 1979, following delay in appointing the consultants for final
engineering. Estimated costs have increased to $161 million ($98 foreign
exchange) compared with the appraisal estimate of $112 ($70 foreign
exchange). KMPA expects to introduce commercial accounting from January 1,
1983.
Loan No. 1542    Sixth Railway Project; $120.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1978; Effective Date: August 3, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project would provide KNR with the capacity required to meet
forecast traffic, and reduce operating and maintenance costs. It includes
continued double tracking and electrification of lines, extension of yards
and terminals, continued installation of centralized traffic control, track
and rail renewal, separation of road and rail at crossings, installation of
a permanent way workshop, procurement of diesel locomotives, passenger cars
and freight cars, provision of a new passenger car workshop, installation
of additional telecommunication and power facilities and provision of tech-
nical assistance to KNR. The loan will also finance transport sector



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12 pages
studies. Contracts for about 98% of the equipment to be financed under the
loan have been awarded and most of the equipment is under delivery. Studies
of the feasibility of major investments for 1980 and 1981 have been carried
out and the transport sector studies are under way.
Loan No. 1640    Fourth Highway Project; $143.0 Million Loan of December 7,
1978; Effective Date: March 14, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) construction and improvement,
including paving and supervision by consultants, of 36 sections of national
roads totaling about 950 km; (b) construction and improvement, including
paving and supervision by consultants, of 10 sections of provincial roads
totaling about 280 km; (c) procurement of additional road maintenance
equipment for maintaining national roads; (d) a study by consultants of the
institutions involved in the planning, design, maintenance, construction,
administration and financing of provincial and county (gun) roads, and the
preparation of a program for improving the organization and functions of
such institutions, upgrading provincial and gun road maintenance and the
future development of the Gun road system, to be followed by detailed
engineering of about 2,000 km of gun roads; and (e) provision of fellowships
for training staff of the Ministry of Construction. A contract for the
study was signed and work started in September 1979. Construction of one
road was started in April 1979, and the remaining roads in September 1979.
Costs have escalated sharply due to inflation, and due to budgetary
constraint, construction work is proceeding about one year behind the
original schedule.
Loan No. 1836    Seventh Railway Project; $94 Million Loan of May 21,
1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 12, 1983
The project focuses on the goals set jointly with the Government
on the transport sector, namely to increase the capacity of the transport
system in the most economically efficient way and to develop and strengthen
the institutions dealing with the transport sector. The main component of
the project aims at:  (a) initiating the institutional changes necessary to
gradually transform the Korean National Railroad (KNR) into a public
corporation; (b) providing KNR with the capacity required to meet forecast
traffic; and (c) reducing operating and maintenance costs. The loan will
finance rails, track maintenance equipment, breakdown cranes, passenger
cars, freight cars, workshop equipment, technical assistance and training.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12 pages
Power Sector
Loan No. 1778    Gojeong Power Project, $115 Million Loan of December 27,
1979; Effective Date: March 21, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project constitutes the next logical step in the development
program of the Korea Electric Company (KECO) to meet the load growth up to
1986.  The project would provide for the installation of two 500 MW
coal/oil-fired units and associated auxiliary equipment; coal handling and
storage facilities, fuel oil tanks, ash system and storage area, a fuel
unloading dock for ships up to 100,000 DWT displacement; a pumping station
and a 17 km steel pipe to transport fresh water to the station; and a 160 km
double circuit, 345 KV transmission line between the power station and
Seoul, and related terminal substations and management consulting services.
In September 1979, contracts for the main equipment which is not being
financed by the Bank were signed and call for bids for 12 equipment packages
will be made in mid-April. Power rates have been increased periodically and
KECO has been able to meet its 9% rate of return objective.



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKET PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:            2-1/2 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:        Ministry of Agriculture
and Fisheries; The Korean
Rural Economics Institute
and the Seoul Metropolitan
Government
(c)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:           May 1981
(d)  Negotiations Completed:                   February 1982
(e)  Date of Board- of Presentation:           March 25, 1982
(d)  Planned Data of Effectiveness:            June 1982
Section II: Special Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government would complete construction of the South Ring
Road to the market site by the end of 1984 (para. 49);
(b) The Government would submit by September 1, 1982 detailed
descriptions of the marketing studies and proposals for their
implementation for review by the Bank (para. 51);
t
(c) SMG would, by April 1, 1983, present to the Bank for review
and comment a detailed plan of action for the closing of the
existing wholesale market for fruit, vegetables, and fish at
Yongsan and the transfer of its activities and trading community
to the new Garag-dong Market (para. 54);
(d) SMG would establish a Steering Committee by October 30, 1982 to
undertake the preparatory work leading to the establishment of
GAMA (para. 55);



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(e) SMG would establish GAMA and appoint a President and Business,
Administration and Technical Directors for GAMA by September 30,
1983 (para. 55);
(f) SMG would forward to the Bank for review and comment by June 30,
1983:
(M) GAMA's draft memorandum and articles of incorporation;
(ii) draft rules and regulations for operation of the market; and
(iii) draft proposals on the structure and levels of market
rates, fees and other charges (para. 55);
(g) The Government would appoint the Advisory Committee and SMG would
establish GAMA by September 30, 1983 (para. 56);
(h) SMG would cause GAMA to generate sufficient revenues from market
rents, fees and other charges to cover the Authority's operating
costs, adequate depreciation of buildings and equipment, and
repayment of the subsidiary loan and other borrowings, and that the
situation would be reviewed periodically to ensure continued
achievement of these objectives (para. 57);
(i) SMG would cause GAMA to establish and maintain separate financial
records and accounts which would be audited and submitted to the
Bank annually (para. 57);
(j) MAF would, on request, provide the Bank with information
concerning proposals for management of agricultural wholesale
markets (para. 57);
(k) SMG would cover any deficits incurred by GAMA (para. 63); and
(1) Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government
and SMG; and the establishment of a Project Account to service the
project by SMG would be Conditions of Effectiveness (para. 70).



IBRD 15838R
KOREA                           12700                                                 12710     NOVEMBER 1981
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT
CITY  OF  SEOUL                                    .6
*     PROPOSED NEW MARKET SITE
El   OTHER FUTURE MARKET SITES
FUTURE MARKET SERVICE AREA BOUNDARIES
A    EXISTING WHOLESALE FRUIT AND VEGETABLE MARKETS
*    EXISTING WHOLESALE FISHMARKETS                                                                          N BONG
-37-40'          SUPPLY ROUTES I% of Total):                                                                                                                              374
ZS       FRUIT  AND VEGETABLES
T        FISH
PRIMARY ROADS
RAILWAYS
CENTRAL SEOUL CITY AREA                                                                   ru
GU (DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES
-       SEOUL SPECIAL CITY BOUNDARIES                                                                                                     7
KILOMETERS
0 ~ ~      ~        ~       ~       ~       > 5  10                            JONG                          D       NG
NORTH KOREA         LG9o /g                            YEONG DEUNG N0
-   37o30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~73'
In~a  EOU L
Djeeon
Se~~~~~~~~i 
sea                                           .3%                                                                                               SEONGNAM EONNA  CITY
==h, sap has bass Pe.P'hd by the
=  =  = = 14fodd dh~Was/Baeks s/afhosC/rsSa/Y hOr                                                                                        13. v %
=    f y:          f           tha cOdned h ce s/she Teas/a-  oh
j-    5   .&5 ssonmth,,hap             d364. 2.9%                                86%
Ws/ f-ska h/     b-/,tO.- ash
1265a0pasSec of1s2h7on/02es710
:                      ~~~~~~~~~126'50'                                        127o00                                                 l27o10



