Document of
The World Blank
FB i , k ;t z    ifl   M w
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3684-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT
March 1, 1982
PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS /1
Currency Unit - Won (W)
US$1.00         =  W 685
US$1 million   =  W 685 million
Won 1           =  US$0.0014
Won 1 million  =  US$1,460
Won 1 billion  =  US$1.46 million
MEASURES
1 hectare (ha) = 3,000 pyong
1 pyong         =  3.3 sq m
ABBREVIATIONS
AFDC  -  Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation
BCI   -  Bureau of Commerce and Industry
DAE   -  Division of Agricultural Economics
EPB   -  Economic Planning Board
GAMA  -  Garag-dong Agricultural Market Authority
ICB   -  International Competitive Bidding
KREI  -  Korea Rural Economics Institute
LCB   -  Local Competitive Bidding
MAF   -  Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
MCO   -  Market Construction Office
MOF   -  Ministry of Finance
NACF  -  National Agricultural Cooperative Federation
NFFC  -  National Federation of Fishery Cooperatives
NFFC  -  National Federation of Fishery Cooperatives
OCE   -  Office of Construction and Engineering
SCD   -  Second Construction Division
SMG   -  Seoul Metropolitan Government
TCD   -  Third Construction Division
VAT   -  Value added tax
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
/1 The exchange rate of Won 685 to US$1 used in the President's and
Staff Appraisal Reports represents the rate as of November 1981
when the detailed cost estimates were finalized. The exchange
rate as of February 15, 1982 was W710 = US$1.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MURKETING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
-          1.  BACKGROUND . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   1
General      1                                                        
The Agricultural Sector   . . . . . .. .. .                . . . . .. .     1
Project Formulation   .                  .       .                          3
Project Objectives    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 4
2.  MARKETING OF HORTICULTURAL AND MARINE PRODUCTS . . . . . .                  5
General  ...            ...&.o..                ...   .   .                 5
Seoul City Wholesale Marketing System  . . . . . . . . . .                  8
The Yongsan Market . . . . g  . .           . . . .          . . .          9
33.  THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                11
Project Description  . .   * . . . .            . . . . . . . . .          11
Location and Site Conditions . . .            .  .     .  .  .  . . . . .   11
Principal Features of the Market . . . ,  .  .  . . . . . . .             12
Other Market Related Project Components   . . . . . . . . .               14
Agricultural Marketing Studies . . . .   . . . . . . . . .                15
Status of Designs   . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . .               15
Implementation Schedule   . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . .               16
Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . .             . .   . . . . . . .    16
Financing      .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  . . .  . . * . .    18
Procurement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               18
Disbursements   . . . . . .  . . . . .  . . . .  .   . .                  18
Accounts and Audits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   19
Environmental Effects   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               19
4.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 19
Implementing Agencies   . . . . .     . . .   . .     . . .  .            19
Project Management: Construction  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .      21
Project Management: Operations . . . .                           . .      21
5.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS   . . . . . . . . . . . .                24
Cash Flow Projections   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               24
Cost Recovery   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               25
Financial Analysis . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . .  . . .               25
Economic Analysis. . . . . . . . .   .   . . . . . . . . .                26
Unquantifiable Benefits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               28
Project Direct Beneficiaries .   .   .   . . . . . . . . .                28
Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . R      O  .  . . .   . . . .  . .        29
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMNENDATION  . . . . . . . . . .                 2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used b), recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedl without World Basnk authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1. Plan of Market Improvements, Salient Features of Yongsan Market
2. Cost Estimates, Schedule of Expenditures, Proposed Allocation of
Proceeds of Loan, Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
3. Cash Flows: GAMA, Fruit and Vegetable Wholesale Company, Fish
Wholesale Company, Fruit Jobber, Vegetable Jobber and Fish
Wholesaler; Financial Analysis, Economic Analysis
4. Schedule of Early Events
5. Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
LIST OF TABLES IN MAIN TEXT
Table No.
2.1 Seoul Consumption and Trade Projections
2.2 Relative Importance of the Major Wholesale Markets in Seoul
5.1 Financial Sensitivity
5.2 Economic Sensitivity
LIST OF FIGURES
4.1 Proposed GAMA Organization
LIST OF MAPS
IBRD 15838 R   City of Seoul
IBRD 15843 Ri  Land Use Garag-dong
IBRD 15846     Market Site Plan



1. BACKGROUND
General
1.01      The Government of the Republic of Korea has requested the Bank to
assist in financing a project aimed at improving the marketing of fruit,
vegetables and fish. The project would provide for the construction of a
modern wholesale market in Seoul, the establishment of an authority to
operate it, training programs for officials and traders, improvement of
market information services and a study of the entire marketing system in
Korea. The project would be the first step in the Government's long-term
plan to increase the efficiency of the agricultural marketing system to the
benefit of both consumers and producers.
1.02      Discussions between the Government and the Bank on measures to
improve agricultural marketing started in late 1976. For the next two years
the Government efforts were directed to the preparation of a project involving
a wide range of components, notably slaughter houses, cold storage facilities,
refrigerated trucks, and an agricultural marketing centre in the vicinity of
Seoul. Towards the end of 1978, the Goverament decided to focus on the most
urgent problem of improving the marketing situation in Seoul by constructing a
modern wholesale market for horticultural and marine products. The subsequent
period starting early 1979 was devoted to the collection and analysis of basic
data on the status of agricultural marketing in Seoul, followed by the
preparation of detailed engineering designs which were completed in March
1981. Frequent changes of Government officials contributed to some delay in
processing the project. The project was prepared by the Seoul Metropolitan
Government (SMG) and the Korea Rural Economics Institute (KREI). This report
is based on the findings of an appraisal mijssion consisting of Messrs.
F.I.H.  Moreithi and J. Macgregor (Bank), and Messrs.  K.C. Parsons, A. Silva,
S.C. Kang, C.Y. Lee, M.H. Chaudri and G.P. Hollands (consultants), which
visited Korea in May 1981.
The Agricultural Sector
1.03      The value of Korean agricultural production grew at an annual
average of 4.2%, in real terms, during the last decade, compared to a growth
rate of 9.9% for the economy as a whole. Ihe more rapid growth of the other
sectors has meant a steady decline in the relative contribution of agriculture
to GNP from 30% in 1970 to 16.5% in 1980. Nonetheless, agriculture continues
to play a vital role in the economy especially with regard to food supply,
rural income and employment, and foreign exchange earnings.
1.04      Korean agriculture is founded on owner-operated smallholdings, num-
bering about 2.2 million, with an average h3lding of about 1 ha and 70% of all
holdings between 0.3 and 1.5 ha. Only about 22% of the total land area of 9.9
million ha is cultivable. Rice is the major crop and takes up about 56% of
the cultivated area. The remainder, mostly unirrigated upland fields, is used



-2-
for barley, soybeans, tobacco, and a wide range of fruit and vegetables.
Nearly 86% of the rice fields are irrigated but due to cold winters, only one
crop of rice is possible each year. About 30% of the rice lands are planted
to barley in the winter.
1.05       The agricultural sector has been undergoing structural changes
characterized by: (a) declining domestic per capita demand for staple food-
grains; (b) shifting consumption and production patterns in favor of horticul-
tural, fish and livestock products; (c) reopening of a gap between rural and
urban incomes despite mounting deficits in the operations of agricultural
price support schemes; (d) growing seasonal farm labor shortages; and
(e) rapid growth in output of livestock products with high domestic production
costs relative to international costs. These trends also underlie the basic
issues bearing on Korean agricultural policies, priorities, and programs.
1.06      The Government's principal objectives in the agricultural sector
traditionally have been to reach and maintain self-sufficiency in rice and
improve the welfare of rural families. Self-sufficiency in rice was achieved
in the mid-1970s. Because of unusually bad weather during the growing season,
1979 was a poor crop year and 1980 was disastrous, with the result that the
country had to import 780,000 tons of rice during the 1979 marketing year and
2,360,000 tons in 1980. Projected rice imports for the 1981 marketing year
are 500,000 tons. Korea depends heavily on imports for wheat and feedgrains.
Since 1971 wheat imports have risen from 1.5 to 2.3 million tons and feedgrain
imports rose sharply from 380,000 tons to 2.9 million tons.
1.07      Rising incomes have stimulated a marked and growing shift in con-
sumer demand from the traditional staples to horticultural and livestock
products. Thus, between 1970 and 1979 the per capita consumption of rice fell
from 136 kg to 132 kg and barley from 37 kg to 14 kg while that of fruit and
vegetables rose from 70 kg to 140 kg and meats from 5 kg to 11 kg. To
increase the production of fruit and vegetables, the Government has promoted
the growing of these crops in selected regions; measures to this end include
provision of credit and improvement of marketing, research and extension
services.
1.08      Primarily as a result of limited land and capital resources, average
labor productivity in agriculture is substantially below that in other sec-
tors; 32% of the labor force is in agriculture, but it produces only about
16.5% of GNP.  In view of the virtual absence of new cultivable land and the
limited scope for multiple cropping, efforts to increase agricultural labor
productivity have focused on improving crop yields, mechanization and
expanding the cultivation of crops such as fruit and vegetables. In addition,
special programs have been instituted to promote expansion of nonfarm
employment opportunities in the rural areas to facilitate the movement of
excess labor out of agriculture, while maintaining an available supplementary
labor supply that can be called out to help at peak seasons.



- 3 -
1.09      Compared to 1965-70, the trend of the agricultural terms of trade
has improved steadily as a result of the agriculttural price supports
introduced in the late 1960s. Attractive price supports apply to most field
crops and livestock products, and are aimed at improving the agricultural
terms of trade and effecting transfer of income in favor of the rural areas.
Under the major schemes, those for rice and barley, the Government procures
farm produce at a price above and releases 't at a price below the market
price. Because of increasing farm price to wholesale price margins and
increases in the total volume handled, the schemes have been operating at
mounting deficits.  During the past decade, the annual deficit for rice and
barley increased 75-fold, amounting to US$239 million in 1980 and bringing the
cumulative total deficit to US$1,507 million. The Government plans to elim-
inate the deficit by 1986 through gradual reductions. These plans were
confirmed under the recently approved Structural Adjustment Loan.
1.10      Major issues in the sector relate to:
(a)  the attainment of an equitable balance between rural and urban
incomes, without adverse effects on labor mobility into industry,
the competitiveness of industrial exports and the costs of the
agricultural price support schemes;
(b)  improvement of agricultural productivity while conserving fuel;
(c)  satisfaction of the rising demand for food without distorting
resource allocation and straining the balance of payments; and
(d)  greater efficiency in the marketir.g system to ensure equitable
distribution of the resultant benefits among producers, traders
and consumers, while limiting public intervention to a supportive
and complementary role to private enterprise.
1.11      Bank Group assistance to the agricultural sector, totalling
US$580.5 million, has been channelled through 15 projects. These include
seven irrigation and rural development projects amounting to 70% of the loan
funds, three credit projects amounting to 14% of the funds, two agricultural
processing projects amounting to 11% of the funds, and two livestock
development projects and a seed production project amounting to 5% of the
funds. These projects formed part of the national development programs
aimed at raising incomes and bettering the quality of life in rural areas.
The proposed project would be the first to address the problems of
agricultural marketing.
Project Formulation
1.12      The marketing of horticultural and marine products in Korea has been
constrained by the small size of both production units and retail outlets; the
absence of nationally accepted standards for produce packaging and grading;



poor marketing intelligence; and deficient market buildings, ancillary facili-
ties, trading practices and institutions. The Government has increasingly
come to recognize that the past development plans did not pay sufficient
attention to marketing aspects. Although major gains have been achieved in
the range and volumes of the commodities now being produced, marketing remains
a principal weakness in the overall structure of the agriculture sector.
Under the next Five-Year Plan (1982-86), a higher priority than in the past
will be accorded to measures aimed at improving the efficiency of the agri-
cultural marketing system. As part of the Plan, MAF has prepared an indica-
ive program to overhaul the marketing system estimated to cost about US$887
million (Annex 1). The program aims at improving assembling functions in
the producing areas through strengthening the role of farmer organizations;
promoting standardization, better grading and packaging practices; improving
physical facilities for wholesale and retail markets in the major cities;
and improving market information services. As the initial step in implemen-
tation of the program, the Government plans to relocate the Yongsan Market,
Seoul's largest, to the outskirts of the city and, in the process, to carry
out a number of institutional reforms hitherto impracticable because of
deficiencies in the physical facilities now available at the Yongsan Market.
These reforms would include: introduction of auction sales; establishment
of bona fide wholesale companies and jobbers; creation of a market authority;
and implementation of improved marketing information services. The proposed
project would assist the Government to construct the Garag-dong Market to
replace the Yongsan Market, and to implement the above reforms. It would
also assist in carrying out public policy studies relating to the marketing
system and studies to ascertain the feasibility of the various components
envisaged in the indicative program.
1.13      The selection of the new market site takes into account the need
to reduce traffic congestion; to realign the market to the major supply
routes of farm produce into the city, and changes in population distribution
south and north of the Han River; to ensure availability of convenient
transport linkages with the city's main retail districts; and to minimize
land acquisition and site development costs. Sizing of the market is based
on the estimated capacity of existing and planned wholesale markets, and the
need to ensure that the new market would be sufficiently large to have a
significant impact on the whole marketing system. The commodity mix is
designed to provide wider opportunities to small farmers, economies of
purchasing to retailers, institutional and other large buyers, and to spread
the market overheads and operating costs. The internal market layout, which
was reviewed by representatives of future users, is planned to reduce intra-
market congestion by ensuring a smooth flow of commodities and related
vehicular and human traffic, and to provide sufficient ancillary facilities.



-5-
Project Objectives
1.14      The project would have the following objectives:
(a)  promotion of a more competitive price formation mechanism through:
provision of adequate auctioning facilities, reduction of intra-
market congestion, creation of a market authority to foster fair
and competitive trading practices, and improvement of the marketing
information services;
(b)  increase of the efficiency of the agricultural marketing system
throughout the country in general and Seoul in particular by:
establishment of the new market in a sufficiently competitive
atmosphere and with a throughput large enough to have a
significant impact on price formation throughout the country;
shortening of the marketing chain by establishment of consignment
wholesale companies to act as receiving agencies for primary
producers, and by enabling institutional buyers and retailer
groups to purchase directly from the auction floor; reduction of
the buyers' need to inspect the entire merchandise, by promoting
adoption of standardized grading, packaging and weights which
have already been formulated; reduction of intramarket spoilage by
providing adequate storage faciLities; and reduction of delivery and
collection costs by locating the market in the outskirts of the
city; and
(c)  establishment of a basis for im3roving public policies and
institutions affecting agricultural marketing by a study of:
trading practices, licensing policies, marketing legislation, tax
legislation, produce assembling system, distribution channels and
cost structure, and various marketing support services including
transportation, credit and storage.
1.15      The project would complement Baik-supported projects to increase
the production of fruit and vegetables (Cr. 335-Ko, Lns. 1328-KO and 1974-KO).
The studies proposed under the project would provide the Government and
private investors with overdue policy guidelines and broad-based investment
programs aimed at improving not only the marketing of horticultural and marine
products but also of the major foodgrains and of livestock products.
2.  MARKETING OF HORTICULTURAL AND MARINE PRODUCTS
General
2.01      Horticultural and marine products account for about 27% of the
total value of agricultural and fishery production. Between 1975 and 1979,
the production of fruit increased by aboul: 80% from 0.5 to 0.9 million tons,



- 6 -
vegetable production rose by about 74% from 4.6 to 8.0 million tons, and
fish catches increased by about 14% from 2.1 to 2.4 million tons. Apples,
peaches and pears are the most important types of fruit and account for
about 70% of total production of fruit, with apples alone accounting for
52%. Chinese cabbage, radishes and onions comprise about 80% of the total
production of vegetables, with chinese cabbage alone accounting for about
43%. The annual supply is subject to a marked seasonal fluctuation, with
about 56% of the fruit, 66% of the vegetables, and 39% of the fish coming
onto the market during September-December. Demand has been increasing
rapidly in step with rising urban population and incomes.  This trend is
expected to continue though at a declining rate. By 1995, demand for fruit
is projected to reach 2.0 million tons, for vegetables 10.9 million tons, and
for fish 2.9 million tons.
2.02      It is estimated that private traders assemble about 60% of fruit and
vegetables, with informal farmer groups and cooperatives handling 24% and 16%,
respectively. Cooperatives have been taking a steadily increasing part in
assembly of horticultural products, but have been handicapped compared to
private traders by less flexibility in dealing with producers and lack of
resources. On the other hand, about 82% of all fish and 90% of fresh fish
assembling is done by cooperatives, which receive the fish from the fishermen
on a consignment basis and auction it at the landing port. The buyers then
ship the fish to the urban wholesale markets where it is auctioned again. The
Government policy is to strengthen the role of cooperatives and of farmer
organizations in horticultural marketing to promote group shipment to the
wholesale markets, thus reducing assembling, handling and transportation
costs, and offsetting the problems arising from the small size of the
production units. Implementation of the policy is hampered by the absence of
reliable receiving agents in the wholesale markets, notably in Seoul.
2.03      There are 31 cooperative, 58 licensed private, and 68 unlicensed
private wholesale markets in Korea. It is estimated that the cooperative and
the licensed private markets each handled 20% of the total volume of fruit,
vegetables and fish marketed in 1980, and the unlicensed private markets
handled the remaining 60%. In all the cooperative and in many of the licensed
private wholesale markets outside Seoul, auctioning is the predominant method
of sale, and middlemen consist of wholesale companies and jobbers. The whole-
sale companies act as consignment agents, on a commission basis, receiving
goods from the producer-shipper and placing them for auction. The jobbers buy
on commission from the auction, mostly on behalf of retailers, but occasion-
ally on their own account when this is needed to clear the market. However,
in all the noncooperative markets in Seoul, both the trading practices and
institutional framework are significantly different and the marketing system
is less efficient.
2.04      Retail marketing is mostly in the hands of small-scale grocery
shops, hawkers and peddlers.  Such outlets account for about 85% of the fruit,
vegetables and fish sold in Seoul. Cooperatives are also involved in



-7-
retailing but account for less than 1% of total sales. Supermarkets have been
growing steadily in the main cities, but their share remains very small (less
than 5% in Seoul). The Government policy is to encourage the development of
supermarkets and chain stores to reduce marketing costs through vertical
integration and bulk purchasing from the wholesale markets.
2.05      The prices of horticultural products have tended to rise faster
than the prices of other agricultural commodities despite substantial
increases in the volume of production, and wholesale and retail prices have
risen more sharply than producer prices because of high marketing costs.
These are largely due to an excessive number of intermediaries in the
marketing system, entrenched rigidities in the distribution channels, and
the failure of the system to adjust itself sufficiently to the major changes
which have been taking place during the last two decades. Such changes
include increases in the volume and varieties of the marketed commodities,
continuing rises in fuel costs, and transformation of the farming system
from subsistence to a market orientation. Marketing costs and margins,
expressed as a proportion of the retail prices, range among vegetables from
about 29% for red peppers to 80% for radishes; among fruits the range is
from 36% for apples to 48% for pears; and for fish the average is 48%. The
middlemen's margins are generally small; in the cases where they are
relatively high (radishes and chinese cabbage), they reflect the increased
risk of spoilage and wastage associated with the particular type of
commodity. Marketing costs tend to be high for the leafy and bulky
commodities because of their correspondingly high transportation and
handling costs. One way of reducing the costs is to shorten the
distribution channels, thus eliminating excessive handling.
2.06      The cooperatives have been providing marketing information
services since 1975, based on data collected from the cooperative markets.
The information system covers fish and all the major fruits and vegetables
and is disseminated daily by radio, newspapers, teletypes and automatic
telephone answering facilities located in the cooperatives' provincial
centers in the main producing and consuming areas. The system suffers from
three main deficiencies: limited relevance and meaningfulness because the
grades, weights and measures used differ widely; unrepresentativeness of
supply and demand conditions since the information is collected only from
the cooperative wholesale markets which, except for fish, handle a very
small proportion of the marketed commodities; and lack of comparability
because of differing methods of data collection from market to market.
2.07      The available storage facilities are generally inadequate for
fruit and vegetables both in the producing areas and in the existing whole-
sale markets; the Government is taking measures to lessen the problem. On
the other hand, only about 30% to 40% of the available cold storage capacity
for fish is currently being utilized. Transportation services are
satisfactory as all the major fruit and vegetable producing areas and
fish-landing ports are linked with the main highway system. Marketing



- 8 -
credit is available from the middlemen and from the cooperatives; however,
the total loanable fund is insufficient to enable most of the producers to
defer sales with a view to taking advantage of high off-season prices.
Furthermore, credit from the middlemen generally restricts the producers'
choice of marketing channels, often to the disadvantage of the producers.
2.08      The existing marketing law and ordinances are basically sound and
adequate to ensure an orderly and efficient marketing system. However, they
are modelled on Japanese legislation and are geared to a level of marketing
development more advanced than the system prevailing in Korea at the moment.
In effect, many of the stipulations of the law are difficult to enforce.
This is particularly so with regard to the legally prescribed specifications
for wholesale market premises and institutional framework. Partly because
the premises used were constructed before the enactment of the law, they do
not meet the legal requirements and cannot be licensed for wholesaling;
consequently, most of the wholesale trade is in the hands of unlicensed
wholesalers. Furthermore, unlike in Japan, the cooperatives in Korea play a
small role in the marketing of fruit and vegetables, and most of the
wholesale markets are privately owned and managed, so that enforcement of
the law is difficult.
Seoul City Wholesale Marketing System
2.09      The metropolitan area of Seoul covers 627 sq km, with a resident
population of about 8.5 million, or 21% of the total population of Korea.
About 61% of the city's population resides in the area north of the Han
River while 39% resides in the area south of the river. During the last
decade, most of the population growth has been taking place south of the
river, where the population increased by about 34% from 2.4 million in 1976
to 3.2 million in 1979, while population north of the river increased by
only 12% in the same period. The Government policy is to support this
trend. The city takes about 60% of the fruit consumed in the country, 26%
of the vegetables and 26% of the fish. As a result of continued population
growth and increase in incomes, the city's total and per capita consumptions
of these commodities are projected to increase further, though at declining
rates, with most of the increase taking place south of the river in keeping
with the shift in the population distribution pattern. Table 2.1 shows the
projected total consumption and trade of these commodities in Seoul
(including transfer trade through Seoul to satellite cities):



Table 2.1: SEOUL CONSUMPTICN AND TRADE PROJECTIONS
Fruit       Vegetables          Fish
Total          Total            Total
Year     ('000 tons)   ('000 tons)       ('000 tons)
1981        500           2,160              470
1986        680           2,675              640
1991        920           3,220              830
1995      1,160           3,670            1,000
2.10      About 94% of fruit and vegetables and 87% of fish enter the city
from south of the Han River, while all the major wholesale markets are
located in the downtown area north of the river, where traffic congestion is
worse and room for expansion is severely limited (Map IBRD 15838R).  This
results in high costs of delivering the commodities to the wholesale markets
and of distributing them to the various retail outlets in the city. The
situation would deteriorate further as population growth shifts to the area
south of the river.
2.11      There are 20 markets for fruit and vegetables and 8 for fish in
Seoul, but only 10 are significant in terms of capacity (Table 2.2). The
others are very small, handling less than 50 tons per day of horticultural
products and less than 60 tons per day of fish and are unable to achieve
economies of scale particularly in terms of spreading the overheads. The
average ton/sq m ratio of 0.046 for fruit and vegetables for the 10 larger
markets is very high compared to 0.025 for Osaka Market in Japan, reflecting
serious intramarket congestion.  Lack of expansion space has resulted in
increasing pressure on essential facilities, including storage and auction
space.  Inadequate auction space has restricted adoption of more competitive
and fairer trading practices and introduction of institutional reforms,
particularly the establishment of bona fide consignment wholesale companies to
act as receiving and auctioning agencies on behalf of the producer. The
deficiencies of the wholesale markets in Seoul are epitomized by the Yongsan
Market.



- 10 -
Table 2.2: RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF THE MAJOR WHOLESALE MARKETS IN SEOUL
Fruit and vegetables              Fish
Wholesale market                       Tons/year      %          Tons/year    %
1.  Yongsan                           1,494,000    61.6         98,000      23
2.  Cheong Ryang-ri                     524,000    21.6         50,000       12
3. Yeong Deung Po                       177,000      7.3           -         -
4.  Seo Dae Moon                         79,000      3.3            -        -
5.  Jung Bu                              41,000      1.7        88,000      21
6.  Nam Dae Moon                         17,000      0.7        22,000       5
7.  Su Yu                                42,000      1.7           -         -
8.  Seong Dong                           21,000      0.9
9.  Cheon Ho                             30,000      1.2            -        -
10.  No Ryang Jin                            -         -        164,000      39
2,425,000   100.0        422,000    100.0
The Yongsan Market
2.12      The Yongsan Market is the largest wholesale market for fruit and
vegetables in Korea, accounting for about 62% of the horticultural produce
marketed in Seoul. The next largest is the Cheong Ryang-ri Market which
accounts for about 22%. Like most of the wholesale markets in Seoul, the
Yongsan Market is located north of the Han River. The market layout has
developed haphazardly with little regard to efficient flow of the merchandise
and related vehicular and human traffic. Due to lack of room for expansion,
essential facilities such as auction floors, storage, loading, unloading and
parking space, and waste disposal have not kept pace with the increased use
of the market. The intramarket congestion has gotten steadily worse over
the last decade and the throughput-space ratio is now about 0.070 ton/sq m,
compared to an average of 0.046 ton/sq m for fruit and vegetable wholesale
markets in the city. The lack of space at Yongsan has resulted in high
spoilage and wastage, especially vegetables for which spoilage and wastage
are estimated to be about 8% of the throughput. Queuing time for delivery
and collection vehicles is also excessive. Spoilage and vehicle waiting
time are factors in the high marketing costs. The congestion and lack of
auctioning facilities have also rendered the marketing system less
competitive by restricting buyers' movement in search of better bargains.
2.13      Private individuals own the market buildings and facilities and,
as landlords, their rents are virtually assured and are independent of
changes in other marketing costs; the greater the intramarket congestion,
the greater the total rental revenues they stand to collect. Furthermore,
even though the present market locations, sizes and trading practices are



- 11 -
uneconomical from the national point of view, an individual landlord would
not move to a new site unless he is assured of the existence of a cluster of
marketing facilities, because retailers prefer to buy where many wholesalers
are actually or supposedly competing in close proximity. Most of the
wholesale dealers will move from the old sites only if assured that their
competitors will accompany them.
2.14      Unlike the cooperative and most of the provincial wholesale
markets, the Seoul markets do not have wholesale companies to act as regular
receiving agents for the producers, who are therefore compelled to rely on
intermediaries to reach the market. Longer distribution channels and
consequently higher marketing costs ensue.  In addition, over 70% of the
wholesaling business is in the hands of dealers who have registered
themselves as retailers partly to avoid paying various taxes, but also
because the premises in which they carry on their business do not meet the
legal requirements for wholesale licenses. These dealers frequently engage
in speculative trading, receiving goods on a consignment basis or buying on
their own account depending on the resale prospects.
2.15      Because of lack of standardized packaging and grading, and high
rates of spoilage particularly for vegetables, buyers have little trust in
commodity specifications and have to inspect visually the entire merchan-
dise. This results in increased pressure on market space, excessive
handling, and long transaction times. In the absence of open auctions, even
the licensed dealers often change position, acting as commission agents when
the prospects of resale prices are unfavorable and buying on their own
account when prospects are good. They thus pass all price risks to pro-
ducers and deny them the benefits of higher resale prices. Inadequate
auctioning facilities also militate against open setting of wholesale
prices, with the result that prices paid to the farmers and rural assemblers
by wholesale dealers are often lower than the realized prices.
3. THE PROJE(T
Project Description
3.01      The principal features of the project are:
(a) the construction of the Garag-dong agricultural wholesale market
in Seoul consisting of:
(i) a fruit and vegetable market;
(ii) a fish market;
(iii) a related item market and retail stores;



- 12 -
(iv)  cold storage facilities;
(v)  an administration building, including agriculture marketing
information center; and
(vi)  utility facilities including:  water, garbage, sewerage, and
solid waste treatment plants.
(b)  the construction of about 3.5 km of market-related roads, including
an underpass, intramarket streets and parking facilities;
(c)  establishment of the Garag-dong Agricultural Market Authority;
(d)  a study of Korea's agricultural marketing system, including
feasibility studies of various components of the agricultural
marketing improvement program as part of the Government's
Five-Year Plan (1982-86) and a review of policy and institutional
issues; and
(e) provision of local and overseas training in agricultural wholesale
marketing.
Location and Site Conditions
3.02      The Garag-dong Market would be located on a 55 ha site on the
outskirts of Seoul, some 15 km from the city center, south of the Han River
(Map IBRD 15843R). The site, previously used for paddy cultivation, lies
about 2.0 m below the adjacent main roads and therefore about 1 million cu m
of compacted fill would be placed to bring it to road level. Sand and
gravel underlies the site and the depth to rock averages about 10 m. SMG
plans to develop the area surrounding the market for residential, commercial
and industrial uses. The area north and east of the site is reserved for
about 300,000 apartment units, while the area south of the site is reserved
for market-related uses including truck terminals, warehouses, and wholesale
markets for processed food and manufactured goods. The site lends itself to
convenient linkages with the existing roads, mass transit, and public
utilities.
Principal Features of the Market
3.03      The market would consist of four main buildings and ten smaller
ones, with a total floor space of nearly 200,000 sq m. The daily throughput
would be 2,390 tons of vegetables, 640 tons of fruit and 540 tons of fish;
this would be about 23% of vegetables, 19% of fruit, and 19% of fish pro-
jected to be traded and consumed daily in Seoul in 1995. Despite its larger
size compared to the Yongsan Market, the new market would handle about
440,000 tons of vegetables less per year than Yongsan Market. The
difference would consist wholly of radishes and chinese cabbage during the



- 13 -
October-November Kimche season. The surFlus would be disposed through the
series of temporary markets organized by SMG for the purpose. On the other
hand, the new market is designed to acconmodate all the fish now being traded
at the Yongsan as well as about 50% of the projected increase in Seoul's fish
trade up to 1986. The buildings would be founded on precast concrete piles
driven to solid rock. The frames for the fruit and vegetable market and the
fish market would be of prestressed concrete beams and reinforced concrete
columns. The other buildings would be mainly of reinforced concrete. The
walls would be mainly of precast concrete panels and concrete blocks, while
floors would be of reinforced concrete and precast concrete slabs. Each
building would include appropriate plumbing, heating and air conditioning
facilities.
3.04      Fruit and Vegetable Market Buildings.  The main market building
would have four floors with a total floor space of 107,000 sq m. The building
would provide an auction hall (30,350 sq m) for a daily throughput of 640 tons
of fruit and about 1,080 tons of vegetables suitable for grading. The rest of
the vegetables, about 1,310 tons per day consisting of mostly radishes and
chinese cabbage, would be traded in the truck sale building (3,800 sq m)
primarily through negotiated sales. The fruit and vegetable building would
also provide stalls for jobbers (20,300 sq m); offices for the wholesale
companies (11,820 sq m); unloading and lcading space (6,300 sq m); general
storage (6,130 sq m). There would be abcut 530 jobber stalls of which 225
would be of 45 sq m and 305 would be 33 sq m so as to accommodate all existing
wholesale dealers from the Yongsan Market. A proportion of the approximately
2,400 retailers, peddlers, and hawkers currently doing business with the
Yongsan Market would follow the move to Garag-dong, while the remainder would
have to transfer their activities elsewhere. Given the dynamic nature of the
city's economy, most of the affected traders would find alternative oppor-
tunities around the Yongsan site, other iholesale and retail centers and in
non-market related activities.
3.05      Fish Market Building.  This would be a four-floor building, inclu-
ding a basement, with a floor space of 4C,000 sq m. The daily throughput
would be 540 tons. All the fish would be sold through auction and adequate
space (10,800 sq m) would be provided for that purpose. It is estimated
that about 260 tons would be bought and transported directly from the
auction floor while the balance would be resold through the jobber stalls.
About 16,000 sq m would be made available for some 160 jobber stalls, and
8,600 sq m for wholesale company offices required to accommodate the fish
dealers from the Yongsan Market. The building would also provide cold storage
facilities (810 sq m) with a capacity of 560 tons per day, and an ice making
plant with a production capacity of 20 tcns per day and a storage capacity of
100 tons.



- 14 -
3.06      Related Item and Retail Market Buildings.  The related item market
building would have two floors, including a basement, while the retail market
would have one floor. The related item market would supply primarily pack-
aging materials for the wholesaling activities; it would also stock merchan-
dise (canned food, seeds, spices and utensils) that are commonly retailed
jointly with fruit, vegetables and fish. The fruit and vegetable related item
market building would have a floor space of 8,600 sq m, and the fish market
related item building 2,600 sq m. About 300 dealers would be accommodated in
these markets. The retail stores would handle the produce that may remain
unsold, especially from the truck sale market, at the end of the market day.
It is estimated that such remainders would range from 5% to 10% of the daily
wholesale throughput. The stores would accommodate 217 dealers, and would be
fenced off to prevent the overflow of retailing activities into the parking
and wholesaling areas.
3.07      Freezer Storage.  This would be a 4,870 sq m, three floor building.
It would be principally used for fish but also for meat, and would therefore
be situated between the fish and the meat market buildings./l It would have a
cold storage capacity of 1,830 tons and quick freezing facilities for 25 tons
per day. In designing the freezer capacity, account has been taken of the
currently available freezing storage facilities in the vicinity of the
Garag-dong Market and in the fish landing ports.
3.08      Administration and Service Buildings.  The administration building
would have six floors, including basement, amounting to 11,500 sq m. It would
provide office facilities (2,700 sq m) for the Garag-dong Agricultural Market
Authority (GAMA), and space for the Agricultural Marketing Information Center
(440 sq m). The exhibition hall (320 sq m) would also be used as a conference
room and as a classroom for the proposed training program, with a capacity of
about 35 participants per session. In addition, the building would accommo-
date various ancillary activities, including a bank, a cafeteria, a telephone
exchange, a workshop, a post office, a laboratory, and a clinic. The service
building would provide amenities, public lounges, a restaurant, baths and
showers for market users.
/1 The meat market would be constructed and financed separately from the
proposed project. The meat market is excluded from the project's costs
and benefits. The Garag-dong site would also include about 200,000 sq.m.
provisionally reserved for a grain market to be built in the late 1980s.



- 15 -
3.09      Utility Buildings.  The market wDuld be fully serviced with solid
and liquid waste disposal, gas, electricity, telecommunication, and garbage
disposal facilities. Industrial water, estimated at 1,800 cu m per day, would
be drawn from three tubewells, while potable water, estimated at 2,400 cu m
per day, would be supplied from an existing 500 mm main to be extended to the
site. Septic tanks would be constructed for all main buildings, and drained
to a sewer treatment plant from which the effluent would be carried to a
retention basin located adjacent to the Tancheon River. Solid wastes of all
types would be brought to a garbage treatment plant for partial sorting
(mostly removal of metals), and then compacted into bales and hauled by trucks
to the municipal refuse disposal sites. A storm drainage system designed for
a 50-year storm would be installed throughout the market area. A gasoline
station would be provided for the market-related vehicles.
3.10      Road Works.  The project includes the following road works (Map IBRD
15846 RI): extension of the Outer Ring Road (1,000 m long and 50 m wide)
along the northern market boundary; constriction of the western boundary
street (690 m long and 15 m wide), the southern boundary road (900 m long and
35 m wide), the intramarket main street (6)0 m long and 30 m wide), and an
underpass across the Outer Ring Road (300 in long and 16 m wide). The eastern
boundary road, Songpa Highway, has already been widened into four lanes over a
distance of 6 km south of the market site. Parking space and intramarket
circulation streets (270,000 sq m) would be provided for about 10,000 vehi-
cles, mostly for shippers  trucks and distribution pickups and also for
employees and visitors. Although the existing roads and those to be con-
structed under the project are adequate for the running of the market, the
operation of the market would be improved by extending and widening into four
lanes the Southern Ring Road from Daechi-dong to the new market site, includ-
ing a bridge across the Tancheon River. All assurance was obtained that SMG
would construct the South Ring Road from Daechi-dong to the new market site,
including a bridge across the Tancheon Rivear, and complete the work by
December 31, 1984.
Other Market Related Project Components
3.11      The project would establish an Agricultural Marketing Information
Center to be located in the Administration Building. The Center would be
equipped with computer based terminal faciLities, monitors, and display
boards, as well as automatic telephone answering facilities. It would be
linked with the NACF and NFFC marketing inEormation system throughout the
country. The project would also assist in establishing the Garag-dong
Agricultural Market Authority (GAMA) which would be responsible for the over-
all management of the market facilities, wlhile leaving commercial activities
to private enterprise. Under the auspices of MAF, the Authority would also
organize short courses, including overseas study tours, for wholesalers,



- 16 -
jobbers and auctioneers expected to move from the Yongsan to the Garag-dong
Market; for GAMA staff; for wholesalers, auctioneers, jobbers, and operators
of the other wholesale markets in Seoul and other major cities; and for staff
of SMG, MAF, and provincial governments concerned with agricultural marketing.
For the market participants the training program would focus on ways and means
of improving trading practices to reduce marketing costs and ensure a
competitive and orderly marketing system. For the governmental officials it
would aim at familiarizing them with technical, policy and institutional
problems affecting agricultural marketing in the country.
Agricultural Marketing Studies
3.12      The studies would cover the marketing of the principal foodgrains,
and of horticultural, marine and livestock products in Korea. They would
include feasibility studies of the agricultural market improvement project
proposed for inclusion in the 1982-86 Development Plan and preparation of a
perspective (10-15 years) agricultural marketing improvement master plan,
which would provide guidelines for both governmental and private initiatives.
The feasibility studies would assess the technical, financial and economic
viability of the proposed projects, formulate designs, define any needed
policy and institutional changes, and identify appropriate implementing
agencies. The master plan studies would undertake an overall review and
analysis of the past, current, and future situations and the underlying major
factors, and formulate a long-term investment program and required policy,
legal and institutional changes for the next 10-15 years. The studies would
take about 24 months to complete. MAF would be responsible for making the
necessary arrangements for timely execution of the studies. An assurance
was obtained that MAF would submit by September 1, 1982 detailed descriptions
of the studies and proposals for their implementation for review and approval
by the Bank. The project would provide for about 200 man-months of consultant
services to assist in execution of the studies, of which about 60 man-months
would be of expatriate origin and 140 man-months of local origin. The foreign
consulting services are expected to cost about US$10,000 per man-month and the
local services about US$3,000 per man-month. An assurance was obtained that
consultants engaged under the project would be employed under terms of
reference and under conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Status of Designs
3.13      The planning of the market was carried out by the Korean Rural
Economics Institute and the consultants, Hanyang Engineering Company of Seoul,
a firm with considerable experience in the design and construction of large
buildings in Korea and overseas. The planners drew on experience gained from
studying the Osaka wholesale market. Detailed design of the various buildings
was completed in March 1981 by Hanyang Engineering Co., who used the services
of DRC Consultants Inc., New York, to design the 20 m long prestressed girders



- 17 -
used in the main market building. A structural engineer, employed as a Bank
consultant, reviewed the consultant's design criteria, techniques of
structural analysis, and design codes and found them in accordance with sound
engineering practice.
Implementation Schedule
3.14      Construction of the market buildings and the market-related roads,
and parking areas would be carried out under a single contract. The contract
would include installation of plumbing, heating, air-conditioning facilities
and market-related equipment and utilities. Invitations to prequalify were
issued in November 1981, prequalification has been completed and bid invita-
tions were issued in January 1982. A contract should be awarded by May 1982.
The contract will call for a 24-month construction period so the market should
open in June 1984. A considerable amount of preparatory work has been
completed, including site clearing and fiLling, drainage and access roads.
Land acquisition and compensation has beea completed. The cost of works
completed to date is about US$13.0 million, and about US$7.0 million has been
expended on land acquisition and compensation. The marketing studies would
begin in mid-1982 and be completed in mid-1984.
Cost Estimates
3.15      The total project cost is estimated at US$102 million of which
US$50 million or 49% is foreign exchange. This relatively high foreign
exchange content reflects the cost of imported fuel consumed in the manu-
facture of cement and steel, and the need to import most of the timber used
for form work. The consultants have prepared a detailed bill of quantities
for all of the civil, mechanical, and elecitrical works associated with the
project. The cost estimates were derived by applying to these quantities the
unit prices quoted for similar works in Seoul in March 1981. This estimate
was increased by 9% to bring it to early L982 prices as a base cost estimate.
Because of the detail in which designs and quantity estimates have been
prepared, a physical contingency of 5% is considered appropriate. The costs
include about 10% for taxes and duties. Costs due to expected price increases
over the construction period amount to 15%'. of the total base cost plus physi-
cal contingencies assuming the following annual rates of price escalation:



- 18 -
ANNUAL INFLATION RATE (%)
1982    1983    1984
Local content                    14       11      10
Foreign exchange content        8.5      7.5     7.0
Details of the project costs are presented in Annex 2 and summarized below:
For-                  For-          Foreign
Local  eign  Total   Local  eign  Total  exchange
(Won billion)        (US$ million)/a        (x)
Construction and installation
Roads and utilities              4.0   2.6    6.6       5.80  3.80   9.60    40
Buildings                       12.1   8.1   20.2    17.70 11.80  29.50    40
Mechanical works                 2.5   1.6    4.1       3.60  2.40   6.00    40
Electrical works                 3.0   2.0    5.0       4.40  2.90   7.30    40
Subtotal                     21.6  14.3   35.9    31.50 20.90  52.40    40
Furr.iz..- equipment & matls.
Roads and utilities              0.8   3.3    4.1       1.20  4.80   6.00    80
Buildings                        1.4   5.3    6.7       2.00  7.80   9.80    80
Mechanical works                 0.8   3.3    4.1       1.20  4.80   6.00    80
Electrical works                 0.6   2.4    3.0       0.90  3.50   4.40    80
Subtotal                      3.6  14.3   17.9      5.30 20.90  26.20    80
Engineering and supervision        2.1   0       2.1      3.00  0       3.00     0
GAMA establishment                 1.0   0       1.0      1.50  0       1.50     0
Studies and consultants/b          0.4   0.3    0.7       0.50  0.50   1.00    50
Base Cost                    28.6  29.0   57.6    41.80 42.30  84.10    50
Physical contingencies             1.4   1.2    2.7       2.04  1.90   3.94    50
Expected price increases           5.6   3.5    9.1       8.26  5.05  13.21    38
Total Project Cost           35.6  33.8   69.4    52.00 49.25 101.25    49
Front end fee on Bank loan           -   0.5    0.5          -  0.75   0.75
Total Financing Required   35.6  34.3   69.9    52.00 50.00 102.00
/a US$1.00 = W 685
7_ Including overseas training



- 19 -
Financing
3.16      The proposed Bank loan of US$50.0 million would finance the pro-
ject's foreign exchange component. The balance of Won 35.4 billion
(US$52.0 million) would be provided in part from the Government budget (Won
27.2 billion) and in part from SMG's own resources (Won 8.2 billion). The
Government would be the borrower and would onlend to SMG US$49.4 million under
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement on the same terms as the Bank loan to the Govern-
ment. SMG would bear the foreign exchange risk. The balance of the Bank
loan of US$0.6 million would be made available to MAF for financing the costs
of the marketing studies and overseas training. To ensure a timely and
continuous flow of funds, assurances were cbtained that SMG would set up a
special account to service the project which would be replenished by the
Government at quarterly intervals to a level equivalent to the estimated
requirement for the next three months, and that the initial credit to the
account would be made by June 30, 1982. Establishment of the account and
execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and SMG
would be conditions of effectiveness of the loan.
Procurement
3.17      A single contract for the construction of the market complex and
installation of equipment and the construction of market-related roads and
underpass would be awarded to prequalified bidders following international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. The value of
this contract, excluding physical contingencies and expected price increases,
would be about US$52 million, or 62% of the project base cost. It is SMG's
policy to supply contractors with most of the material and equipment to be
incorporated in the works. Such materials and equipment would be mostly
procured on behalf of SMG by the Office of Supply, Republic of Korea (OSROK).
This policy has been applied successfully on other Bank-assisted projects in
Korea. The total value of furnished materials, excluding contingencies, would
be about US$26 million. Furnished materials consisting of reinforcing steel,
cement, and various items of specialized equipment with a value of about
US$12 million would be procured following ICB according to Bank Group Guide-
lines. Other furnished materials for which ICB would be clearly impractical,
namely ready-mixed concrete (US$5.6 million) and asphalt concrete (US$2.5 mil-
lion) as well as building materials and supplies which would not exceed about
US$500,000 in a single contract and therefore would be of no interest to
foreign bidders, would be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB) in
accordance with SMG procurement procedures which have been reviewed and are
acceptable to the Bank. In evaluating bids for materials and equipment
obtained through ICB, a preference limited to 15% of the cif price of imported
goods or the custom duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local
manufacturers.
Disbursement
3.18      Disbursements for civil works would be at 45% of total expenditures,
to be disbursed against monthly contractors' progress payments. For materials
and equipment procured through ICB , disbursements would be at 100% of foreign
expenditures for directly imported goods, at 100% of ex-factory costs for
locally manufactured goods, and at 65% of the costs of imported goods procured



- 20 -
locally. For furnished materials and equipment procured through LCB, dis-
bursement would be at 85% of total expenditure since total costs would include
some element of local taxes, and would be limited to the supply of ready-mixed
concrete and asphalt concrete and there would be no disbursement against the
many small LCB contracts for materials. Prior review by the Bank would be
required for all contracts eligible for Bank disbursement. Disbursements for
studies and consulting services would be on the basis of Statement of
Expenditures at 50% of total expenditures or 100% of foreign exchange costs.
Disbursement of the Bank loan would be completed by December 31, 1984. The
disbursement estimate differs from the Bank-wide profile mainly because of the
short period within which the market construction would be completed and the
fact that site development and installation of drainage works have been
ongoing since April 1981. Estimated schedules of expenditures and disburse-
ments, and the allocation of the proceeds of the loan are shown in Annex 2.
Accounts and Audits
3.19      Assurances were obtained that SMG and MAF would maintain separate
accounts for the project and that after audit by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, the project accounts, together with the auditors'
comments would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each
financial year.
Environmental Effects
3.20      The project would not have any significant adverse environmental
impacts. The proposed market is compatible with the planned land use in the
vicinity of the site. To protect the residential area north of the site from
market-generated noises, a landscaping buffer would be established along the
northern boundary of the market site, while the main entry gate for heavy
supply vehicles would be located on the southern side. The original design
for garbage disposal envisaged an incinerating plant on the site; to avoid
generating pollutant fumes, the design was changed in favor of a system of
compaction and haulage to the municipal sanitary land fill. Effluent from the
market would be treated to a satisfactory quality level.
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Implementing Agencies
4.01      While the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF) is the agency
responsible for overall policies relating to agricultural marketing and is
also primarily responsible for planning and coordinating the establishment of
wholesale markets, it delegates implementation and operational responsibili-
ties to the local governments, cooperatives and selected public corporations.
Thus, local and municipal governments are responsible for the establishment,
management and supervision of wholesale markets in their jurisdictional areas.
The Division of Agricultural Economics (DAE) of MAF would play a major suppor-
ting role in the construction and subsequent operations of the proposed



- 21 -
market, in the planning and supervision oE the studies and in organization
of the training program. The Division is headed by a Director answerable to
the Director-General, Bureau of Agricultural Economics, who is in turn
responsible to the Assistant Minister for Agricultural Economics and
Development. One of DAE-s main functions is to promote improvement of
agricultural marketing of the non-grain cimmodities. To this end, it is
responsible for securing and administering financial and technical support
from the Central Government to the municipal authorities. The MAF would
accordingly be responsible for ensuring that the basic laws and policies would
continue to be consistent with the objectives of the project, and that
sufficient local funds for the project ara budgeted and made available in a
timely manner. The Seoul Metropolitan Government (SMG) would be responsible,
through its Office of Construction and En:gineering (OCE), for the construction
of the proposed Garag-dong Market and related utilities and infrastructure.
It would also own the market through a subsidiary corporation, the proposed
Garag-dong Agricultural Market Authority. SMG is a corporate entity coming
under the Office of the Prime Minster whiah approves its budget and
borrowings. The SMG is organized into functional bureaus and is headed by a
mayor who is appointed by the President of Korea and holds cabinet rank.
Although its terms of employment are generally less favorable than the private
sector's, SMG has succeeded in attracting and retaining well qualified and
experienced staff both in the technical aad administrative fields.  It has a
total staff of about 34,000 of whom more than 800 are technical personnel.
4.02      The SMG accounting system consists of a General Account for routine
services financed mainly from fiscal revenues, and a number of Special
Accounts for specific projects and activities which generate their own
revenues. SMG's consolidated statements of receipts and expenditures for the
period 1975 to 1980 show consistent annual surpluses rising from US$20.5 mil-
lion to US$115.6 million. The receipt-expenditure ratio remained stable up to
1978, but declined thereafter in response to inflationary effects on running
costs of the social services and a relatively less elastic tax base.  Munici-
pal taxes, rents and fees account for aboat 80% of General Account receipts,
with the balance made up of savings and annual subventions from the Government
under revenue sharing arrangements. Community services are the largest user
of funds but that share declined to 33% of total expenditures in 1980 as a
result of retrenchments instituted in 1979. While operating expenses of the
various Special Account projects have tended to rise faster than revenues, a
large surplus of US$83.1 million was realized in 1980, compared to
US$37.7 million in 1978. Borrowings also rose over the same period to
US$96.6 million in 1980, but the operating-revenue/debt-service ratio improved
from 17.5 to 22.5. The total long-term debt outstanding at the end of 1980
amounted to US$320.1 million, of which 97% was under Special Accounts. About
78% of the total debt was from local borrowings; foreign loans amounted to
US$74.0 million, of which about 60% came from Japan for construction of the
Seoul subway. The annual debt service is estimated at US$27.7 million in
1981, rising to about US$29.5 million fron 1983 onwards. This would represent
about 2.6% of the consolidated SMG receipts for 1980.



- 22 -
Project Management: Construction
4.03      In January 1980, SMG created the Market Construction Office (MCO) as
a separate unit under the Bureau of Commerce and Industry (BCI) to supervise
the construction of the Garag-dong Market. BCI has been responsible for
supervising the construction of the first phase of the Seoul Subway, the City
Stadium Complex, and several housing projects. In each case, a task force was
created and staffed with personnel drawn from the various bureaus; MCO was
constituted in a similar manner. Since its creation, MCO has overseen the
preparation of preliminary and detailed designs for the market, liaised with
the various SMG bureaus and with MAF, and supervised site development works.
Under the proposed project, its main functions were expected to include super-
vision of market construction, procurement of building materials and major
equipment to be installed by the contractor, monitoring and reporting
construction progress and authorizing payments to the contractor. As a result
of a reorganization in November 1981, all SMG construction activities, except
the subway, have been placed under a newly established Office of Construction
and Engineering (OCE), and MCO has been abolished. OCE is headed by a
Director General, assisted by a Deputy, and is organized into one administra-
tive and five construction divisions, each headed by a Director. The General
Affairs Division is primarily responsible for the provision of logistic
support, budgeting and accounting services, and procurement of construction
materials and equipment. The Second Construction Division (SCD) would have
overall responsibility for engineering supervision of the market construction,
with particular emphasis on the civil engineering aspects. The Third
Construction Division (TCD) would provide assistance with electrical and
mechanical engineering aspects. The Deputy Director General of OCE would have
direct responsibility for all market construction activities. Existing MCO
staff have all been absorbed into the larger SCD and additional staff has been
drafted in from the TCD. The reorganization has resulted in assignment of a
larger and more experienced staff to construction of the market and has pro-
vided a more flexible mechanism for movement of personnel from other divisions
as needed. If necessary, provision would be made for up to six months of
consultant services spread over the construction period to assist OCE in
designing detailed construction monitoring procedures and inspection check-
lists, reviewing the contractor's CPM network, and to periodically review with
OCE supervision standards and inspection and test procedures. An assurance
was obtained that if necessary OCE would employ such a consultant under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank. OCE would operate under standard SMG
rules, by which any changes in works resulting in increased costs need the
approval of the Vice-Mayor if less than W 30 million and of the Mayor if more.
Project Management: Operations
4.04      When completed, the Garag-dong Market would be the largest and most
modern wholesale agricultural market in Korea. SMG would create a body to be
known as the Garag-dong Agricultural Market Authority (GAMA), as a statutory
corporation under the Local Government Public Corporation Law. GAMA would be



- 23 -
responsible for drawing up and enforcing market rules and regulations, for
collection of rents and other market charges, for operation and maintenance of
physical facilities, for organization and operation of the Marketing
Information Center, and for conducting cour~ses in improved marketing practices
for wholesalers, jobbers and auctioneers doing business in the Garag-dong and
other wholesale markets in Korea.  In addiiion, GAMA would set up an
information system to bring together shippers in Seoul looking for transport
opportunities for goods to the provinces and produce truckers looking for
backhauls. SMG is committed to the closing of the existing Yongsan Market as
soon as the new market is built to ensure prompt utilization of its facilities
and to expedite the transfer of the building materials market from downtown
Seoul to the vacated Yongsan site. An assuirance was obtained that SMG would,
by April 1, 1983, present to the Bank for review and comment a detailed plan
of action for the closing of the existing wholesale market for fruit,
vegetables, and fish at Yongsan and the transfer of its activities and trading
community to the new Garag-dong Market.
4.05      SMG would establish a Steering Committee to undertake the prepara-
tory work leading to the establishment of GAMA. Assurances were obtained that
SMG would set up the Steering Committee by October 30, 1982. The Committee
would be responsible for drafting GAMA's articles of incorporation and rules
and regulations for operation of the markel:, together with preparing proposals
for an appropriate structure and levels of market rents and fees. Assurances
were obtained that SMG would forward to the Bank for review and comment by
June 30, 1983:
(a) GAMA's draft memorandum and articles of incorporation;
(b) draft rules and regulations for the operation of the
Market; and
(c) draft proposals on structure and levels of market rents, fees and
other charges.
4.06      A Board of Directors, appointed by SMG and consisting of the Presi-
dent, the Vice-President, the Internal Aud-itor, the Directors of the Business,
Administration and Technical Divisions, and a wholesalers- representative,
would determine GAMA's general operating policies and procedures. The Board
would be subject to guidance by an Advisory Committee, including but not
limited to representatives of MAF, SMG, the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the
National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF), the Agriculture and
Fishery Development Corporation (AFDC) and the Korea Rural Economics Institute
(KREI). Input from the Advisory Committee would be particularly pertinent on
matters with ramifications beyond the physical limits of the market. An
assurance was obtained that by July 1, 1981l the Borrower would appoint the
Advisory Committee. GAMA would be organized into three divisions, each headed
by a Director (Figure 4.1). The Business Division would be responsible for
supervising wholesaler trading activities, enforcing rules and regulations,



- 24 -
conducting training courses, managing the Marketing Information Centers, and
promoting innovations to improve marketing efficiency. The Administration
Division would be responsible for logistic support, budgeting and accounting,
and collecting rents and other market charges. The Technical Division would
be responsible for the maintenance of the market buildings, facilities,
utilities, machinery and equipment. It is estimated that GAMA would have a
staff of about 130. GAMA's role would be basically a facilitating and
supportive one, leaving trading and commercial activities wholly in the hands
of wholesale companies and jobbers; at least four wholesale companies for
fruits and vegetables, and two for fish would be established at the Garag-dong
Market. The traders at the Yongsan have shown keen interest in forming such
companies. The wholesale companies would be responsible for auctioning, on a
commission basis, all the fish, fruit, and vegetables that are amenable to
grading, while the rest of the vegetables would be traded in the truck sale
area mainly through negotiated sales. The jobbers would perform the function
of bulk breaking in that they would resell part of the goods through their
stalls in lots smaller than in the auction sales; by so doing, the jobbers
would continue to serve the needs of the various small-scale buyers, including
peddlers and hawkers, now buying their merchandise from the Yongsan Market.
Assurances were obtained that SMG would, not later than September 30, 1983,
establish GAMA under memorandum and articles of association acceptable to the
Bank, and appoint GAMA's President, and Directors of Business, Administration,
and Technical divisions.
4.07      The establishment of the Agricultural Marketing Information Center
and introduction of a training program would constitute significant steps
towards improving agricultural marketing on a national scale. By collecting
and disseminating prices by standard grades and packages for the Garag-dong
Market, the Center would ameliorate some of the major deficiencies in the
prevailing agricultural marketing information services; it would add to the
information collected from the cooperative markets and thus would make the
data base more representative of supply and demand conditions. The training
courses would be initially for GAMA's own staff and wholesalers, jobbers, and
auctioneers expected to move to the Garag-dong Market; subsequently, courses
would be run for wholesalers, jobbers and auctioneers from the other wholesale
markets in the country, and staff of MAF, SMG and provincial governments
concerned with agricultural marketing. The trainers would be drawn from KREI,
MAF, universities, vocational schools, NACF, AFDC, the Office of Agricultural
Product Inspection, and selected individuals from the existing wholesale
companies. The first phase would start in August-September 1983, at the NACF
Training Center in Seoul, and would include overseas study tours for the key
staff of GAMA (President, Vice-President and Directors of Technical, Business,
and Administration Divisions). After the opening of the Garag-dong Market,
the courses would be conducted in the facilities provided for the purpose in
the Administration Building. Participants would pay for their board and
lodging.



- 25 -
4.08      A basic corporate objective of GAMA would be to generate from rents
and other market charges sufficient revenues to cover operating costs, depre-
ciation on the market buildings, facilities, machinery and equipment, and
servicing part of the Bank loan relating t:o the market and other borrowings.
The depreciation allowances would be amortized through a sinking fund. To
this end, GAMA would, from time to time, review the structure and levels of
the rents, and other market charges and mEake the necessary adjustments to
ensure conformity with its financial objectives. As GAMA would start
operating in a skeleton form at least nine months before opening of the
Garag-dong Market, it would incur a deficit of about W 0.18 billion during
the period consisting mostly of the costs of staff and of overseas study
tours. During the first year of operatior,, it would require a sum of about W
1.0 billion (US$1.5 million) to finance capital expenditures for office
furniture, equipment and service vehicles. These start-up expenditures would
be included in the project costs. Assurances were obtained that SMG would
cause GAMA to generate sufficient revenues from market rents, fees and other
charges to cover the Authority's operating costs, adequate depreciation of
buildings and equipment, and servicing the part of the Bank loan relating to
the market and any other borrowings; that the situation would be reviewed
periodically to ensure continued achievement of these objectives; and that
GAMA would maintain separate financial records and accounts which would be
annually audited by independent auditors and submitted to the Bank.
4.09      While GAMA would be concerned specifically with the new market, its
responsibilities might be widened eventually to cover future newly constructed
and/or rehabilitated agricultural wholesale markets in Seoul or individual
authorities might be established for each market. An assurance was obtained
that MAF would, on request, provide the Bank with information concerning
proposals for management of agricultural wholesale markets.
5. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Financial Analysis and Cost Recovery
5.01      Cash flow projections over a 25-year period have been worked out
for the wholesale companies, jobbers, and GAMA (Annex 3).  For some of the
jobbers, notably the fish jobbers, incremeatal net cash flow would be nega-
tive during the first year of operation when the volume of business is
expected to be relatively low.  However, the financial rate of return would
be attractive and would range from about 413% for the fish jobbers to over 50%
for the other jobbers.  Most of the revenues for the wholesale companies and
jobbers would come from commissions, ranging from 5.5% to 6.6% of gross sale
proceeds.  However, the jobbers would derive an appreciable part of their
revenues from dividends on equity holding In the wholesale companies.  The
law requires wholesale companies to trade i:hrough licensed jobbers and it
would therefore be in the interest of the wholesale companies to sell shares
to the jobbers to the extent that may be neicessary to attract them to the new



- 26 -
market. As an additional incentive to attract the jobbers to the new market,
SMG proposes to charge about W 7,500 per pyong (US$3.32/sq m) for stalls
compared to the going rate of about W 15,000 per pyong (US$6.64/sq m) at the
Yongsan Market.
5.02      For GAMA, net cash flow would be positive throughout the period,
with net cash balances rising from W 1.1 billion (US$1.6 million) during
the first year of market operations to W 4.5 billion (US$6.6 million)
following the retirement of the Bank loan in the twelvth year. At full
development in the third year, annual gross revenues would be W 9.7 billion
(US$14.3 million) about 43% of which would come from market fees, 35% from
market rent, 12% from interest income on security deposits which the
wholesale companies are required to lodge with GAMA and the rest from other
sources. While GAMA's financial future looks strong, an assurance was
obtained that SMG would cover any deficits incurred by GAMA.
5.03      The project costs, consisting of investment and market operating
costs, would be recovered fully through the various revenues going to GAMA
and incremental tax revenues accruing to the Government (Annex 3). The new
market would help to reduce tax evasion among the traders and enable the
Government to collect taxes, the incremental value of which, at full develop-
ment, is estimated at W 21.4 billion (US$31.2 million), with about 53% coming
from corporate tax, 23% from value added tax, 13% from defence tax, and the
rest from miscellaneous taxes. The combined net receipts accruing to GAMA
and the Government become positive during the project's third year and, when
projected over a period of 25 years and discounted by 15%, give a net present
value of W 57.0 billion (US$83.2 million).
5.04      The financial rate of return is 28%, and is only moderately sensi-
tive to changes in revenues or costs. The switching values (percentage
change in financial benefits which would reduce the net present value to zero
at a discount rate of 15%) for Government and GAMA benefits and construction
and operating costs are given in Table 5.1. A delay in the onset of benefits
of 3.3 years would reduce the rate of return below 15%.
Table 5.1: FINANCIAL SENSITIVITY
Switching Value
Variable                                        (%)
Revenue to Government                          -59
Revenue to GAMA                               -126
Construction costs                              87
Operating costs                                286



_27 _
Economic Analysis
5.05      Annual incremental benefits at full development would total
W 46.1 billion (US$67.3 million) arising from five sources:
(a) Reduction in spoilage losses; because of reduced congestion
within and near the market, and because of the speed of
auctioning and the availability of chilled storage, about 2.2%
of daily horticultural product throughput and 1.0% of marine
product throughput would be saved from spoilage, representing
26% of total benefits. All but the commission percentage of this
benefit would go to producers and shippers.
(b) Improvement in product quality; the same factors as those noted
above also would improve the quality, and hence the auction
price, of fruit and vegetables by an estimated 3.3%, and of
fish by 2.0%, representing 37% of total benefits. As with
benefit source (a), all but the commission percentage would go
to producers and shippers.
(c) Reduction in transport delays; cars and trucks passing near
Yongsan market suffer long delays from excessive market traffic,
and their costs in idling and running-time depreciation have
been estimated. Nearly as important are savings in idling and
depreciation costs for intra-market traffic. A distant third
in transport delays reduction is the new market's relative
proximity to producing areas, which eliminates the need for market
suppliers to enter the crowded city center. Altogether these
three sources would account for 10% of the economic benefits.
(d) Savings from backhauls; most shippers presently return to the
producing areas with empty trucks, since no good information
system exists to match their supply of transport with the needs
of Seoul-area businesses for shipping goods to the rest of the
country. The new market would provide this linkup for an
assumed 50% of the suppliers- trucks, earning efficiency savings
equal to 18% of total benefits.
(e) Yongsan alternative land use; Y'ongsan's conversion to a high-
value-added building materials market is estimated to add about
5% to the current Yongsan site usage value, amounting to 9% of
total benefits.



- 28 -
5.06      Cost and benefits have been converted from financial to economic
values by applying Bank-estimated conversion factors: 0.80 for consumption
goods and standard conversion factor, and 0.90 for capital goods. The value
of rice production foregone from the 55 ha market site is taken at world
market prices converted to domestic currency using the current market
exchange rate and adjusted for local transport, storage and handling costs.
The value added tax component of construction costs has been removed, as have
tax elements of operating costs of GAMA and market merchants. At a discount
rate of 15%, the estimated opportunity costs of capital in Korea, the economic
net present value of the project is W 40.5 billion (US$59.1 million). The
economic rate of return of the project is 25% (Annex 3).
Table 5.2: ECONOMIC SENSITIVITY
Switching Value
Variable                                        (%)
Spoilage benefits                             -108
Quality benefits                               -76
Transport savings                             -218
Backhaul benefits                             -122
Yongsan land use benefits                     -262
Construction costs                              121
5.07      The switching values for the five benefit sources and the construc-
tion costs are shown in Table 5.2. The rate of return is more sensitive to
the quality preservation benefit than the other benefits. The project is
relatively insensitive to changes in the transport saving and alternate land
use benefits. The economic rate of return is more sensitive to a delay in
onset of benefits than the financial rate of return. A delay of 2.8 years
would reduce the economic rate of return below 15%.
Unquantifiable Benefits
5.08      In addition to the above benefits, the proposed project would serve
as a demonstration case which could be replicated in Seoul and the other
major cities in the country. The establishment of GAMA, would help to
strengthen the institutional framework for the marketing of fruit, vegetables
and fish and serve as a model for market authorities in other cities. The
introduction of the auctioning system, the wholesale companies and jobbers,
coupled with improved marketing intelligence services, constitute major steps
towards a more competitive price formation mechanism. The proposed studies
would help to define more clearly and comprehensively national policies and



- 29 -
strategies to ensure that efficiency in the marketing subsector catches up
with the level of efficiency already achieved in the production subsector.
The employment impact of the project is difficult to estimate because of the
shifting, part-time or seasonal participation of many merchants and vendors
and the secondary employment impact of Yongsan and Garag-dong on surrounding
areas. Garag-dong Market can be expected to employ at least 5,000 people
directly in jobbers' stalls, wholesale companies, related-items and retail
stalls, freezer storage, shipping services and GAMA itself.
Project Direct Beneficiaries
5.09      In addition to the Government, the project's principal direct
beneficiaries would consist of the consignment wholesale companies, jobbers,
shippers and producers. The companies and jobbers would gain from higher
commissions on gross sale proceeds arising from improved commodity quality
and reduced spoilage; out of this, they wDuld receive incremental commission
incomes ranging from 5.5% to 6.6%. The backhaul benefits would go to the
shippers some of whom may be producers, either as individuals, farmer groups
or cooperatives. It is difficult to accurately quantify the benefits to
producers in view of the wide variety of aommodities involved and uncertainty
as to the proportion of the producers who would ship their produce directly
to the new wholesale market without going through intermediaries. However,
there is no doubt that the preponderant part of the quality and reduced
spoilage benefits would go to those who saip directly, either individually or
through groups and cooperatives. Direct 3hippers would pay a maximum of
about 6.6% of the incremental gross benefits to the consignment wholesale
companies, and would therefore reap the balance of 93.4% of the benefits.
The share accruing to the producers would depend on the extent to which the
Government succeeds in its policy to support cooperatives and informal farmer
organizations to undertake assembling and shipping directly to the wholesale
markets. The project would help to create an institutional framework that is
necessary for the success of this policy.
Risks
5.10      Realization of the principal economic benefits such as commodity
quality preservation and reduced spoilage calls for a high standard of market
management which is not widely available :Ln the country at the moment. The
proposed training program and overseas study tours are designed to minimize
management related risks. Some of the jobbers may be reluctant to move to
the new market where they would be subject: to more efficient tax collection
and where it may take too long a period to build up sufficient volume of
business. This risk would be minimized by setting rents and fees at an
attractive level compared to going rates, by closing the Yongsan Market upon
the completion of the new market, and by keeping the allocation of stalls
open to new entrants into the jobber trade.



- 30 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      Assurances were obtained on the following principal points:
(a)  SMG would construct the South Ring Road from Daechi-dong to the
new market site, including a bridge across the Tancheon River, and
complete the work by December 31, 1984 (para. 3.10);
(b)  MAF would submit by September 1, 1982 detailed descriptions of the
marketing studies and proposals for their implementation for review
by the Bank (para. 3.12);
(c)  All consultants engaged under the project would be employed under
terms of reference and under conditions acceptable to the Bank
(para. 3.12);
(d)  SMG and MAF would maintain separate accounts for the project, and,
after audit by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, the
project accounts, together with the auditors comments, would be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each
financial year (para. 3.19);
(e)  SMG would, if necessary, employ a consultant to assist OCE in
construction management under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank (para. 4.03);
(f)  SMG would, by April 1, 1983, present to the Bank for review
and comment a detailed plan of action for the closing of the
existing wholesale market for fruit, vegetables, and fish at
Yongsan and the transfer of its activities and trading community
to the new Garag-dong Market (para. 4.04);
(g)  SMG would set up a Steering Committee by October 30, 1982 to
undertake the preparatory work leading to the establishment of
GAMA (para. 4.05);
(h)  The SMG would forward to the Bank for review and comment
by June 30, 1983:
(i) GAMA-s draft memorandum and articles of incorporation;
(ii) draft rules and regulations for operation of the market; and
(iii) draft proposals on the structure and levels of market
rates, fees and other charges (para. 4.05);



- 31 -
(i) By July 1, 1983, the Government would appoint the Advisory
Committee; by September 30, 1983, SMG would establish GAMA and
appoints its President and Directors of Business, Administration,
and Technical Divisions (para. 4.06);
(j) SMG would cause GAMA to generate sufficient revenues from market
rents, fees and other charges to cover the Authority's operating
costs, adequate depreciation of buildings and equipment, and
servicing the part of the Bank loan relating to the construction
of the market and any other borrowings; that the situation would be
reviewed periodically to ensure continued achievement of these
objectives; and that GAMA would naintain separate financial records
and accounts which would be annually audited by independent
auditors and submitted to the Bank (para. 4.08);
(k)  MAF would, on request, provide the Bank with information concern-
ing proposals for management of agricultural wholesale markets
(para. 4.09); and
(1) SMG would cover any deficit incuirred by GAMA (para. 5.02).
6.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be:  (a) execution of
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the (Government and SMG; and (b) that SMG
would set up a special account to service I:he project. The account would be
replenished by the Government at quarterly intervals to a level equivalent to
the estimated requirement for the next three months. The initial deposit to
the account would be made by June 30, 1982 (para. 3.16).
6.03      With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$50.0 million. The loan would be for a period of
14 years including three years of grace. The borrower would be the Republic
of Korea.



- 32 -                               ANNEX 1
Table 1
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT
Proposed National Marketing Improvements for Perishable Commodities, (1981-86)
US$ mln        %
Fruit and Vegetables
Assembly organization                                                4.6
Wholesale markets                                                 214.5/a
Retailing facilities                                               174.0
Subtotal                                                       393.1         42
Marine Products
Consignment markets at landing area                                 3.3
Retailing facilities                                                 3.5
Subtotal                                                         6.8          1
Livestock Products
Poultry dressing house                                              8.6
Slaughtering facilities improvement                                18.6
Meat center                                                          6.3
Wholesale market and slaughtering facilities units                  83.7
Subtotal                                                       117.2         12
Storing and Processing
Fruit and vegetables storage                                      109.3
Marine products (refrigeration, ice, processing)                    72.3
Milk and livestock (storage, collection, processing)               165.0
Modernization of other processing facilities                        64.1
Subtotal                                                       410.7         43
Marketing Facilitating Functions
Packaging and grading                                               6.8
Freight cars (fish and livestock)                                   5.2
Expansion of information system                                      1.5
National marketing master plan study                                 1.8
Subtotal                                                        15.3          2
Total /b                                                       943.1        100
/a  12 new wholesale markets in provincial cities and 23 rehabilitated wholesale
markets in Seoul and other cities.
/b  Total has since been reduced to about US$887 million, but detailed
breakdown is not available.
Source:  Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries.  Policy and Programs for the
Marketing Improvement of Agricultural and Fishery Products, 1981.



KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT
Salient Features of the Yongsan Market
Daily                          Number of                       Daily tons
Site (sq m)    throughput   Quasi-        Dealer      Retail-  Employ-  Union   per sq m
Site   Building    (tons)    companies  jobbers /a  ers /a          ees    labor  building /c
Fruit and vegetables
Licensed
Private           29,931   21,402       1,091           1          178        500         35     200       0.051
NACF               3,412    4,076          51           1          53            -         6      37       0.013
Unlicensed          45,228   34,526       3,125           2          352      1,640         68     240       0.091
Subtotal    781571   60,004        4,267          4          583       2,140       109      477       0.071
Fish
Licensed
Private                 -              -               -                   -               -       -       -
INACF              1,653    1,332          27           1           18           -        16      47       0.020
Unlicensed            2,215    3,339         273/b        1          142         250        12        -       0.082
Subtotal      3,868    4,671         280          2          160         250        28       47       0.060
Total        82,439   64,675       4,557          6          743       2,390       137      524
/a  Yongsan jobbers are a mixture of principal buyers and brokers; retailers include peddlers and hawkers,
most of whom are seasonal.
/b 20 tons transferred from NFFC are double-counted.
/c Excludes retail trade.
Source: Korea Rural Economics Institute.
l'3-*



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
Table 1
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT
Cost Summary Construction and Equipment
Amount
Item                                       Won million
Construction and installation
Roads and utilities                               6,600
Buildings                                         20,200
Mechanical works                                   4,100
Electrical works                                   5,000
Subtotal                                      35,900
Furnished equipment & materials
Roads and utilities                                4,100
Buildings                                          6,680
Mechanical works                                   4,080
Electrical works                                   3,000
Subtotal                                      17,860



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT
Construction and Installation: Roads and Utilities
Unit            Amount
Item                      Quantity          price       won million
(W)
Temporary works                                  L.S.            530
Earthfill                     600,000 m3        2,400          1,440
Rockfill                      160,000 m3        2,200            432
Paving works               3,500,000 m2           650          2,275
Reinforced concrete            33,500 m3       38,000          1,273
Miscellaneous works                                              250
Installation costs                                               400
6,600
Construction and Installation: Building
Temporary works                                  L.S.            980
Excavation                     60,000 m3          750             45
Earthfill                      70,000 m3        2,400            168
Backfill                       12,000 m3        1,100             13
Stone pitching                 34,000 m3       17,000            578
Pile driving                    6,550 ea.      14,500             95
Reinforced concrete            85,000 m3       38,000          3,230
Prestressed concrete           26,000 m3      190,000          4,940
Precast concrete               30,000 m3       32,000            960
Plastering                    210,000 m2        5,200          1,092
Waterproofing                 320,000 m2        3,800          1,216
Tiles                          11,000 m2        9,500            105
Doors and windows              49,000 m2       35,000          1,715
Painting                      130,000 m2        1,500            195
Finishing                     220,000 m2        3,400            748
Miscellaneous works                             L.S.           2,315
Installation costs                              L.S.           1,805
20,200



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT
Construction and Installation: Mechanical and Electrical
Amount (Won million)
Location                     Mechanical         Electrical
Fruit and vegetable market            1 376             2.208
Fish market                             616             1,110
Administration building                 531               970
Service building                        209                36
Related item market                     148               159
Freezer storage                         415                42
Retail storage                           21                28
Substation                               34               336
Gas station                              20                 6
Solid waste plant                       300                 5
Miscellaneous                           430               100
4,100             5,000



- 37 -                               ANNEX 2
Table 4
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT
Furnished Materials: Roads and Utilities
Unit           Amount
Item                         Quanti:y         price        Won million
(W)
Asphaltic concrete               100 001 m3       15,000          1,500
Asphalt                            2,700 bbl      56,000            151
Paving blocks                                        L.S.           180
Ready-mix concrete                20,000 m3       31,000            620
Cement                             3,000 t        43,750            132
Reinforcing steel                  3,600 t       275,000            990
Pipes and fittings                                  L.S.            350
Pumps                                               L.S.             27
Miscellaneous materials                             L.S.            150
4,100
Furnished Mal:erials: Buildings
Ready-mix concrete                85,600 m3       31,000          2,654
Reinforcing steel                  8,300 t       242.000          2,008
Cement                             2,200 t        43,750             96
Bricks                         1,200,000 ea           25             30
Concrete blocks                  415 000 ea.         280            116
Waterproof seal                  140 000 m2        4 200            588
Dry wall                          14,300 m2       17,400            252
Concrete piles                     6,500 ea.      69,000            448
Insulating material               17,000I m2      28,700            488
6,680



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
Table 5
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT
Furnished Materials. Mechanical
Item                           Won million
Halon cylinders                             216
Boilers                                      91
Pumps                                        98
Fans                                        146
Air conditioning equipment                   92
Radiators                                    68
Steel pipe                                  390
Sprinklers and valves                       216
Waste treatment plant                       341
Fire protection equipment                    37
Waste treatment plant*                      566
HVAC controls*                              138
Freezing plant*                             394
Ice making plant*                           223
Condenser and evaporator*                   667
Miscellaneous material                      189
Freight and insurance                       208
Total                                4,080
* Denotes imported equipment.



- 39-                             ANNEX 2
Table 6
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MAR1KETING PROJECT
Furnished Materials. Electrical
Item                           Won million
Display board                               622
Display controls                            191
Conduit pipes                               159
PABX                                         38
Transformers                                118
Power cubicles                              421
Control panels                              169
Lamps                                        21
Meters                                       23
Cables                                      423
Stand-by generator*                         309
Lamps*                                       86
Computer*                                   100
Video equipment (security)*                 233
Freight and insurance                        87
Total                                3,000
* Denotes imported equipment.



-40-                               ANNEX 2
Table 7
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures and Expected Price Increases
Total     1982    1983    1984
------- (US$ million) --------
Local
Base cost plus physical
contingencies                     43.84    15.34   19.73    8.77
Expected price increases             8.26      1.16    4.07    3.03
Foreign
Base cost plus physical
contingencies                     44.20    15.47   19.45    9.28
Expected price increases             5.05      0.66    2.47    1.92
Totals
Base cost plus physical             88.04    30.81   39.18   18.05
contingencies
Expected price increases            13.21      1.80    6.51    4.90
Total                          101.25    32.61   45.69   22.95
Front end fee on Bank loan           0.75      0.75      -        -
Total Financing                102.0     33.36   45.69   22.95
Annual escalation rates (%)
Local                                         14       11      10
Foreign                                        8.5     7.5      7.0
Multiplier
Local                                           .07      .20     .33
Foreign                                         .04      .13     .21



- 41 -                             ANNEX 2
Table 8
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE SMRKETING PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Bank fiscal years                 Cumulative disbursements
and quarters                         (US$ million) -----
FY 1982
3rd                                  0.75
4th                                   1.70
FY 1983
ist                                  4.60
2nd                                   7.10
3rd                                  12.00
4th                                  15.45
FY 1984
1st                                 20.40
2nd                                 26.80
3rd                                 32.20
4th                                 43.60
FY 1985
Ist                                 46.50
2nd                                 50.00



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Table 9
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Costs            Proposed
Category                     Total/a   Foreign         loan
-------- (US$ million) -------
Construction and installation          60.01     23.55         27.00
Disbursement would be 45% of total expenditures.
Equipment and materials procured       12.00     12.00         12.00
through ICB
Disbursement would be 100% of foreign expenditures for
directly imported equipment and materials, 100% of
ex-factory cost for locally-manufactured equipment and
materials, and 65% of imported items procured locally.
Materials procured through LCB        8.50      6.80          8.00
Disbursement would be 85% of total expenditures.
Studies and consultants                 1.00      0.60          0.60
Disbursement would be 50% of total expenditures, or 100%
of foreign exchange costs.
Unallocated
Miscellaneous materials              11.30      4.40
Engineering and supervision           3.00      0
GAMA establishment                    1.50      0
Physical contingencies                3.94      1.90
Subtotal                         19.74      6.30           1.65
Total Project Cost              101.25    49.25           49.25
Front end fee for Bank loan           0.75     0.75           0.75
Total Financing                 102.00    50.00           50.00
/a Includes expected price increase.



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT
Cash Flow:  Gsrag-dong Agricultural Market Authority
(W'000,000)
Project: year (PY):                     0-1   2       3       4        5        6       7        8       9       10      11       12      13       14      15      16-25
Cash Inflow
Market use fees /a                      -    -   3,053   4,120   4,120   4,120   4,120   4,120   4,120   4,120   4,120   4,120   4,120   4,120   4,120   4,120
Rents /b                                -    -   2,548   3,397   3,397   3,397   3,397   3,397   3,397   3,397   3,397   3,397   3,397   3,397   3,397   3,397
Interest:  Security deposits /c         -    -      890   1,180   1,180   1,180   1,180   1,180   1,180   1,180   1,180   1,180   1,180   1,180   1,180   1,180
Tax deposits /c             -    -      104      195     230     230      230      230     230      230     230      230     230      230     230      230
Parking /d                              -    -      474     632      632     632      632     632      632     632      632      632     632      632     632      632
Chilled storage /c                      -    -       52     105      105     105      105     105      105     105      105      105     105      105     105      105
Training /f                             -    -       58      29        -       -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -
Transfer from Seoul Municipal
Government /i                         -  181      930       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -
Security deposits /h                    -    -   7,355             -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -            -        -
Tax deposits /i                         -    -      866     356      195       -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -
Total Cash Inflow                    -  181  16,330  10,014   9,859   9.664   9,664   9,664   9,664   9,664   9,664   9.664   9,664   9.664   9.664   9,664
Cash Outflow
Operating Costs
Base salaries .                       -   60      482     554      554     554      554     554      554     554      554     554      554      554     554      554
bonuses /k                            -   20      161     185      185     185      185     185      185     185      185      185     185      185     185      185
Retirement fund /1                    -    5       40      46       46      46       46      46       46      46       46      46       46       46      46       46
Office operating costs Im             -   54      465     499      499     499      499     499      499     499      499     499      499     499      499     499
Electricity In                        -    -       65      86       86      86       86      86       86      86       86      86       86      86       86       86
Heating /o                            -    -      346     461      461     461      461     461      461     461      461     461      461     461      461     461
water I                               -    -      362     483     483      483      483     483      483     483      483     483      483     483      483     483
Cleaning Iq                           -    -       23      31       31      31       31      31       31      31       31      31       31      31       31       31
Telephone /r                          -    5       53      62       62      62       62      62       62      62       62      62       62       62      62       62
Vehicle operation Ls                  -    4      44       55       55      55       55      55       55      55       SS      55       55      SS       55       55
Training /t                           -   17       14       5        5       5        5       5        5       5        5       5        5       5        S        5
Waintenance and repair /u             -    -      416     748   1,081   1,414   1,663   1,663   1,663   1,663   1,663   1,663   1,663   1,663   1,663   1,663
Miscellaneous /v                      -   16      314     322      355     388      413     413      413     413      413     413      413     413      413      413
S9btotal                           _   181   2,785   3,S37   3,903   4,269   4,543   4,543   4,543   4,543  4.543   4 543   4.543   4.543   4.543   4,543
Debt Service /w
Interest                              -    -   3,174   2,837   2,338   1,925   1,555   1,234         959     723      522     350      203      79                -
Principal                             -    -      799   2,280   2,075   1,893   1,732   1,582   1,444   1,317   1,203   1,100   1,004          914        -        -
Subtotal                           _      -   3,973   5,117   4,413   3,818   3,287   2.816   2.403   2,040   1,725   1.450   1.207           993        -       -
Taxable Net Income /x                    _    _        _      594       47      29      103     451      799   1,147   1,495   1.843   2,191   2,539    2539    2539
Taxes and Depreciation Reserves
Defense tax ly                          -    -        -      63        3       2        8      43       78    113   148      182      217     252      287     296
Depreciation reserve fund /aa           -    -      258     258      258     258      258     258      258     258      258     258      258     258      258      258
Residence tax /z                        -    -        -      19        1       -        3      13       23      34       44      55       65       76      86       89
&Sbtotal                             -    -     258      340     262      260     269      314     359      405     450      495      540     586      631     643
Total Cash Outflow                   -  181   7,016   8,994   8.587   8,347   8,099   7,673   7,305   6,988   6.718   6.488   6,290   6,122  5.174              186
Net Cash Plow (excluding
deposits)                              _            _ 093   664   1,086   1,317   1565   1991   2,339   2676   2,946   3,176   3,374   3.542   4.490    478



- 44-                                  ANNEX 3
Table 1
Page 2
/a Half of 1% of annual transaction value of four fruit-and-vegetable and
two fisheries wholesale companies, gas station and freezer company plus
W 3,000 per day per shipper (W 600/MT).
/b Based on W 7,500/pyong/month.
7W 16% per year earned on security and tax deposits.
77 W 500/space/day for market-based users; W 1,000/space/day for shippers and
W 750/space/day for outside retailers.
/e Based on approximately 50% capacity utilization by jobbers, at W 0.5/kg-day.
7   Assumes 144 course-weeks in PY3 at W 400,000/course-week paid by wholesale
companies, jobbers and other market participants, and 72 course-weeks in
PY4, after which an outside institution would conduct training.
a This amount covers estimated costs up to the time when the authority
receives its first income from the market.
/h W 200,000/pyong from wholesale companies, jobbers and related-items stalls;
W 150,000/pyong from market-based retailers; W 250,000/pyong from the
freezer company and gas station.
/i Five percent of the pretax net cash flow of the wholesale companies and
freezer company.
/; Public corporation salary scales. Seventeen staff members would work an
average of 6 months during PY2; 34 more would join them at the start of PY3,
and the full complement of 125 staff members would be at work when market
operations begin.
/k Four months of base salaries.
7T One month of base salaries.
77 Ninety percent of base salaries.
7W W 47/kWh x 153,050 kWh/month x 12 months/year (9 months in PY3).
77 For administration building, service building and guard houses, a total of
81,720,000 BTU/hour x 1,050 hours/year (788 hours in PY3)   18,300 BTU/lb
fuel oil x 0.47746 liters/lb fuel oil x W 206/liter.
/   W 110/cu m x 366,100 cu m/month x 12 months/year (9 months in PY3).
W 500/pyong/month x 5,162 pyong x 12 months/year (9 months in PY3).
W 200,000/set/month until the market opens, then W 260,000/set/month.  Four
sets for 6 months in PY2, 10 sets for 3 months in PY3, then 20 sets.
/s W 330,000/car/month x 7 cars x 12 months/year (2 cars beginning half-way
through PY2), plus garbage truck operating costs of diesel fuel (3 km/trip x
50 trips/day x 350 days/year x 1.7 km/liter x W 255/liter - W 22.76 million)
and miscellaneous (20% of fuel cost).
/t For authority staff only, mainly immediately before and after the market
opens in PY3.
/u A growing percentage of the cost of buildings, machinery, equipment and
civil works originally costing W 83.15 million: 0.5% in PY3, 0.9% in PY4,
1.3% in PY5, 1.7% in PY6, and stable at 2.0% from PY7.
/v Ten percent of other nondebt-service cash outflow.
7w Subsidy loan of US$49.4 million, deflated to 1982 prices. Interest is
11.9% per year on the unpaid beginning-of-period balance, paid by the Gov-
ernment until end of first quarter of PY3. Principal is repaid over 13
years, with 3 years of grace, in 22 equal semiannual installments. PY3
principal is the repayment of SMG transfers in PY2 and PY3.
/x Calculated by subtracting transfers from SMG, security deposits and tax
from cash inflow, subtracting interest pay ments from cash outflow, and
deducting from the resultant net flow the cost of the depreciation of fixed
assets. The depreciation deduction assumes a 50-year life for buildings and
civil works worth W 58.34 billion, a 20-year life for machinery and
equipment worth W 18.60 billion, a 10-year for machi nery and equipment
worth W 6.20 billion, and a 5-year life for start-up capital items worth
W 625 million. Defense and residence taxes are zero in PY3, when taxable
net income would be negative.
/y One fourth of the normal corporation tax (25% of taxable income under W 50 y
million plus 40% of taxable income exceeding W 50 million, from which the
authority is exempted).
/z Seven and one-half percent of the normal corporation tax.
7aa A sinking fund calculated to provide a sum equal to the original cost of
buildings, machinery and equipment at the end of their average useful lives
(50 years for buildings and civil works, 10 or 20 years for two broad
classes of machinery and equipment).



- 45-                                 ANNEX 3
Table 2
Page 1
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT
Cash Flow: Fruit and Vegetable Corisignment Wholesale Company
(W'000,O'O)
Project year: 0-2       3         4          5         6-25
Cash Inflow
Fruit commissions /a                    -   2,578.2   3,471.7   3,471.7   3,471.7
Vegetable commissions /b                -   3,748.7   5,102.1   5,102.1   5,102.1
Loan collections /c                     -   1,816.1   2,270.2   2,270.2   2,270.2
Interest on cash balances /d            -     387.7      514.0      753.4      763.3
Sales of company shares /e              -     428.0        -          -          -
Long-term loans /f                      -      860.5        -          -         -
Short-term loans7g                      -   1,911.7        -          -          -
Subtotal                             -  11,730.9  11,358.0  11,597.4  11,607.3
Cash Outflow
Base salaries /h                        -     422.0      510.4      510.4      510.4
Bonuses /i                              -      140.7     170.1      170.1      170.1
Retirement fund /i                      -       33.0      42.5       42.5       42.5
Office operating costs /k               -      519.5     459.3      459.3      459.3
Market use fee /1                       -      479.3     649.5      649.5      649.5
Rental fee /m                           -      313.9     418.5      418.5      418.5
Electricity7n                           -       44.4       59.2      59.2       59.2
Heating /o                              -       31.0       41.4      41.4       41.4
Water /p                                -       19.0       25.4      25.4       25.4
Cleaning /q                             -       40.4      53.9       53.9       53.9
Telephone7 r                            -       31.2      31.2       31.2       31.2
Vehicle operation Is                    -       15.8       15.8       15.8      15.8
Parking /t                              -        6.3        8.4       8.4        8.4
raining |u                              -        9.6       4.8        4.8        4.8
Credit for farmers and shippers /c   -   1,911.7   2,490.4   2,490.4   2,490.4
Commission rebates to farmers,
shippers /v                           -     632.7      857.4      857.4      857.4
Debt service:
Long-term loan principal /w           -     368.8      491.7        -          -
Long-term loan interest IT            -     166.0       92.2        -          -
Short-term loan principal a           -   1,911.7        -          -          -
Short-term loan interest /z           -     113.1        -          -          -
Facility security deposit  aa           -     930.0        -          -          -
Subtotal                             -   8,140.1   6,321.3   5.737.4   5,737.4
Net Cash Flow Before Tax.
Depreciation Reserve              -   3,590.8   5,036.7   5,860.0   5,869.9
Taxes and Depreciation Reserve
Value added tax /bb                     -      575.2     779.4      779.4      779.4
Corporation tax /7c                     -   1,428.8   2,007.2   2,336.5   2,340.5
Defense tax /dd                         -      357.2     501.8      584.1      585.1
Residence tax 7ee                       -     107.2      150.5      175.2      175.5
Social welfare fund /ff                 -      89.8      125.9      146.5      146.7
Tax deposit /gg                         -      179.5      72.3       41.2        -
Depreciation reserve fund /hh           -       21.8       29.0      29.0       29.0
Subtotal                             -   2,759.5   3,666.1   4,091.9   4,056.2
Net Cash Flow After Tax,
Depreciation Reserve              -      831.3   1,370.6   1,768.1   1,813.7
Dividends to shareholders /ii             -      415.7      685.3   1,591.3   1,632.3
Net Cash Flow                        -     415.6      685.3      176.8      181.4



- 46-                                 ANNEX 3
Table 2
Page 2
/a   Commission rate including value added tax.  Market operates only 9 months
during PY3.
/b   Commission rate including value added tax.  Market operates only 9 months
during PY3.
/c   Based on each wholesale company assuming the credit functions of the
jobbers and small wholesalers which it would absorb, 74.2% of them make
loans to farmers and shippers averaging W 30 379 000 per lending shop. PY3
credit and repayment volumes are 80% of full development (PY4). Default
losses of 5% are reflected in loan collections.
/d   Average 24%/year.  Average cash balance is half of net cash flow before tax
and depreciation reserve - tax deposit + sum of previous years' net cash
flows - average farmer-shipper loans outstanding (except in PY3 when such
loans are not self-financed). Because the company faces many investment
options, only PY3 and PY4 net cash flows are applied to interest-earning,
which stabilizes in PY6 after the last tax deposit.
/e   Jobbers would each invest W 2,000,000 in their wholesale company. the
total to be matched by other investors (producers, shippers, etc.).
/f   Loan amount is the facility security deposit (W 930,000,000) + the initial
tax deposit (W 179,500,000) + the physical start-up capital cost
(W 175,000,000) - share equity (W 424,000,000).
/g   Equals the amount of farmer-shipper credit in PY3, W 1,911 700,000, and
self-financed out of cash balances in succeeding years.
/h   Twenty-nine staff are hired for a full 12 months/year beginning in PY3; the
remaining 115 work 9 months of PY3 and 12 months/year beginning in PY4.
/i   One-third of base salaries
/j   One-twelfth of base salaries.
/k   Ninety percent of base salaries, except in PY3 when W 175 000,000 of physi-
cal start-up capital costs are incurred.
/1   Total transaction value x 0.5%.
r    W 7,500/pyong/month x 4,650 pyongs x 12 months/year.  PY3 = 9 months.
/n   W 47/kWh x 105,000 kWh/month x 12 months/year.  PY3 = 9 months.
/o   Based on heat value of 831 cu m of natural gas/hour for fruit and vegetable
market (= 29,533,400 BTU/hour) - 4 wholesale companies x 1,050 hours/year
18,300 BTU/lb of fuel oil x 0.47746 liters/lb of fuel oil (speciEic
gravity 0.955) x W 206/liter. PY3 = 75% of PY4.
/p   W 110/cu m x 19,228 cu m/month x 12 months/year.  PY3 = 9 months.
/q   Internal cleaning.  W 600/pyong/month x 4,650 pyongs x 12 months/year.  PY3
= 9 months. External cleaning: 3,030 MT/day - 4 wholesale companies x
3.357% fruits and vegetable waste x 350 days/year = 8.900 MT/year. Other
waste = 25% of fruit and vegetable waste = 2,225 MT/year. Removal cost =
W 11,000/6 MT garbage truck x (8 900 + 2,225) MT.
/r   W 260,000/month/set x 10 sets x 12 months/year
/s   W 330,000/month/vehicle x 4 vehicles x 12 months/year.
/t   W 500/space/day x 43 spaces x 350 days/year.
Iu   W 400,000/course-week x 24 course-weeks in PY3, 12 course-weeks/year there-
after.
/v   Fruit and vegetable commissions x 10%.
/w   The company pays off its long-term loan principal in 7 equal installments,
3 in PY3 and 4 in PY4.
/x   At 30%/year interest rate  7.5%/quarter on beginning-of-quarter balance.
/y   Sixty percent of total credit goes to farmers and is borrowed for 100 days
by the company. Forty percent goes to shipper-assemblers and is borrowed
for 30 days.
/z   Thirty percent per year interest rate on unpaid balance.
/aa  W 200,000/pyong x 4,650 pyongs.
/bb  One-eleventh of total commissions.
/cc  One quarter of the first W 50,000,000 of pretax net cash flow, and 40% of
any excess over W 50,000,000.
/dd  One-quarter of the corporation tax.
/ee  Seven and one-half percent of the corporation tax.
/ff  Two and one-half percent of pretax net cash flow.
/gg  Five percent of pretax net cash flow, less the sum of previous tax depo-
sits.
/hh  Payments to cover the cost of replacing office equipment, forklifts, cars
and other equipment and supplies worth W 145,000,000, having an average
life of 5 years.
/ii  Half of net cash flow after tax and depreciation reserve in PY3 and PY4,
and 90% after PY4 when company operations would have stabilized and con-
tingency fund requirements been minimized.



-47-                               ANNEX 3
Table 3
Page 1
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETI'NG PROJECT
Cash Flow: Fish Consignment Wholesale Company
(W'000,000)
Project year:  0-2       3        4         5       6-25
Cash Inflow
Commissions /a                              -  3,094.6  4,166.9  4,166.9  4,166.9
Loan collections /b                         -  1,040.9  1,301.1  1,301.1  1,301.1
Interest on cash balances /c                -    ]35.2    213.1    301.5    305.1
Sales of company shares /d                  -    '80.0       -         -         -
Long-term loans /e                          - _    11.7       -        -         -
Short-term loans7f                          -  1,C95.7        -        -         -
Subtotal                                 -  6,C58.1  5,681.1  5,769.5  5,773.1
Cash Outflow
Base salaries /g                            -    372.0    448.8    448 8    448.8
Bonuses /h                                  -    124.0    149.6    149.6    149.6
Retirement fund /i                          -      31 0      37.4     37.4      37.4
Office operating costs /j                   -    459.3    403.9    403.9    403.9
Market use fee /k                           -    281.3    378.8    378.8    378.8
Rental fee /1                               -    170.3    227.1    227.1    227.1
Electricity /m                              -      41.8      55 7     55.7      55.7
Heating /n                                  -      25.2      33.6     33.6      33.6
Water /o                                    -      12.4      16.6     16.6      16.6
Cleaning /p                                 -      16.3     21.8      21.8      21.8
Telephone7q                                 -      18.7      25.0     25.0      25.0
Vehicle operation /r                        -      11.9      15.8     15 8      15.8
Parking /s                                  -       5.6       7.5       7.5      7.5
Training7t                                  -       9.6       4.8      4.8       4.8
Credit for producers /b                     -  1,095.7  1,369.6  1,369.6  1 369.6
Commission rebates to producers /u          -    309.5    416.7    416.7    416.7
Debt service.
Long-term loan principal /v               -    133.7    178.1        -         -
Long-term loan interest /w                -      60.1     33.4
Short-term loan principal /x              -  1,095.7       -
Short-term loan interest /y               -      27.4
Facility security deposit /z                -    504.6        -        -
Subtotal                                 -  4,806.1  3,824.2  3,612.7  3,612.7
Net Cash Flow Before Tax,
Depreciation Reserve                   -  1,252.0  1,856.9  2,156.8  2,160.4
Taxes and Depreciation Reserve
*                  Value added tax /aa                          -    281.3    378.8    378.8    378.8
Corporation tax 7bb                         -    493.3    735.3    855.2    856-7
Defense tax /cc                             -    123.3    183.8    213.8    214.2
Residence tax7dd                            -      37.0     55.1      64.1      64.3
Social welfare fund /ee                     -      31.3     46.4      53.9      54.0
Tax deposit /ff                             -      62.6      30.2     15.0       -
Depreciation reserve fund /gg               -      15.5     20.6      20.6      20.6
Subtotal                                 -  1,044.3  1,450.2  1,601.4  1,588.6
Net Cash Flow After Tax,
Depreciation Reserve                   -    207.7    406.7    555.4    571.8
Dividends to shareholders /hh                 -    103.9    203.4    499.9    514.6
Net Cash Flow                            -    103.8    203.3       55.5      57.2



-48                                      ANNEX 3
Table 3
Page 2
/a   Commission rate including value added tax.  Market operates only 9 months
during PY3.
/b   Based on each wholesale company assuming the credit functions of the
jobbers and small wholesalers which it would absorb. With an estimated
annual production loan volume of W 14,417,000 per small wholesaler stall,
and an assumed default write-off of 5%, loan collections would be (1-0.05)
x 95 x W 14,417,000 = W 1,301,134,000 in PY4, and PY3 production loans are
80% of PY4 levels.
/c   Company earns 24%/year on average cash balance of half of net cash flow
before tax and depreciation reserve - tax deposit + sum of previous years'
net cash flows - average fishing loans outstanding (except in PY3 when such
loans are not self-financed). Because of the variety of expenditure and
investment options open to the company, only PY3 and PY4 net cash flows are
applied to interest-earning, which stabilizes in PY6 after the last tax
deposit.
/d   Jobbers would each invest W 2,000,000 in their wholesale company, the
total to be matched by other investors (producers, shippers, etc.).
/e   Loan amount is the facility security deposit (W 200,000/pyung x 2,523
pyongs = W 504,600,000) + the initial tax deposit (W 62,600,000) + the
physical start-up capital cost (W 124,500,000) - share equity
(W 380,000,000).
/f   Equals the amount of fishing loans in PY3, W 1,095,700,000, these loans
are self-financed in succeeding years.
/g   Twenty-six staff are hired for a full 12 months/year beginning in PY3, the
remaining 102 work 9 months of PY3 and 12 months/year beginning in PY4.
/h   One-third of base salaries.
/i   One-twelfth of base salaries.
7]   Ninety percent of base salaries, except in PY3 when W 124,500,000 of physi-
cal start-up capital costs are incurred.
/k   Total transaction value x 0.5%.
7T   W 7,500/pyong/month x 2,523 pyongs x 12 months/year (9 months in PY3).
7T    W 47/kWh x 98,750 kWh/month x 12 months/year (9 months in PY3).
In   Based on heat value of 339 cu m of natural gas/hour for fishery market
(= 11,904,663 BTU/hour) t 2 wholesale companies x 1.050 hours/year 1
18,300 BTU/lb of fuel oil x 0.47746 liters/lb of fuel oil (at specific
gravity 0.955) x W 206/liter. PY3 = 75% of PY4.
/o   W 110/cu m x 12,550 cu m/month x 12 months/year (9 months in PY3).
7p   Internal cleaning:  W 600/pyung/month x 2,523 pyungs x 12 months/year.
External cleaning; 540 MT/day t 2 wholesale companies x 1.3% fishery
waste x 350 days/year = 1,229 MT/year. Other waste = 60% of fishery waste
= 737 MT/year. Removal cost = W 11,000/6 MT garbage truck x (1,229 + 737)
MT.
/q   W 260,000/month/set x 8 sets x 12 months/year (9 months in PY3).
7T    W 330,000/month/vehicle x 4 vehicles x 12 months/year (9 months in PY3).
/s   W 500/space/day x 43 spaces x 350 days/year (263 days in PY3).
/t   W 400,000/course-week x 24 course-weeks in PY3, 12 course-weeks/year there-
after.
/u   Fruit and vegetable commissions x 10%.
7;   Repaid in 7 equal installments, 3 in PY3, 4 in PY4.
7w   Paid at 7.5%/quarter on beginning-of-quarter balance.
/x   Repaid in 30 days.
/y   Thirty percent per year on unpaid balance.
/z   W 200,000/pyong x 2,523 pyongs.
/aa  One-eleventh of commissions.
/bb  W 12,500,000 plus 40% of pretax net cash flow in excess of W 50,000,000.
7@&  One-quarter of the corporation tax.
/dd  Seven and one-half percent of the corporation tax.
/ee  Two and one-half percent of pretax net cash flow.
/ff  Five percent of pretax net cash flow, less the sum of previous tax
deposits.
/gg  Payments to cover the cost of replacing office equipment  forklift  cars
and other equipment and supplies worth W 103,000,000, having an average
life of 5 years.
/hh  Hlalf of net cash flow after tax and depreciation reserve in PY3 and PY4,
and 90% after PY4, when company operations would have stabili2ed and con-
tingency fund requirements been minimized.



- 49 -                               ANNEX 3
Table 4
Page 1
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT
Cash Flow   Fruit Jobber - Yongsan vs. Garag-dong
(W'000)
Project year.  0-2        3       4        5       6-25
Without Project - Yongsan
Cash Inflow
Commission/markup /a                       56,511  56,511  56,511  56,511  56,511
Loan collections /b                        23,873  23,873  23,873  23,873  23,873
Short-term loans Ic                        10,345  10,345  10,345  10,345  10,345
Subtotal                                  90,729  90,729  90,729  90,729  90,729
Cash Outflow
Wages /d                                    6,600   6,600   6,600   6,600   6,600
Office operating costs /e                   4,950   4,950   4,950   4,950   4,950
Stall rental /f                             1,115   1,115   1,115   1,115   1,115
Telephone /g                                2,340   2,340   2,340   2,340   2,340
Electricity and water /h                    1,)13   1,013   1,013   1,013   1,013
Cleaning /i                                    63       63       63      63       63
Credit for farmers and shippers /j         26,525  26,525  26,525  26,525  26,525
Commission rebates to farmers,
shippers /k                               8,477   8,477   8,477   8,477   8,477
Debt service:
Security deposit interest /1                307      307     307      307      307
Short-term loan interest /m                 721      721     721      721      721
Short-term loan principal 7c             10,345  10,345  10,345  10,345  10,345
Subtotal                                  62,456  62,456  62,456  62,456  62,456
Net Cash Flow                             28,273  28,273  28,273  28,273  28,273



-50 -                               ANNEX 3
Table 4
Page 2
Project year:  0-2       3        4       5      6-25
With Project - Garag-dong /n
Cash Inflow
Commission /o                             56,511  54,972  54,459  54,459  54,459
Dividends on wholesale company
shares /p                                    -   1,961   3,233   7,506   7,700
Loan for share purchase /q                     -   1,500        -        -       -
Security deposit /r                            -   2,625        -        -       -
Loan collections                          23,873   5,968        -        -       -
Short-term loans                          10,345   2,586        -        -       -
Subtotal                                 90,729  69,612  57,692  61,965  62,159
Cash Outflow
Wages, office operations, telephone,
electricity and water /s                14,903  14,903  14,903  14,903  14,903
Stall rental /t                            1,115   1,190   1,215   1,215   1,215
Cleaning /u                                   63       77      81       81      81
Chilled storage /v                             -      126     252     252      252
Credit for farmers and shippers           26,525   6,631        -        -       -
Commission rebates for farmers,
shippers                                 8,477   2,119        -       -        -
Wholesale company share purchase               -   2,000        -        -       -
Security deposits /w                           -   2,700        -        -       -
Debt service:
Security deposit interest /x               307     307      154       -        -
Security deposit principai7x                 -       -      512     512        -
Share purchase interest /y                   -     338      375      75        -
Share purchase principal /y                  -       -      500   1,000        -
Short-term loan interest                   721     180        -       -        -
Short-term loan principal               10,345   2,586        -       -        -
Contingencies and moving costs /z              -   2,987   1,799   1,804   1,645
Valued added tax /aa                           -   3,713   4,951   4,951   4,951
Subtotal                               62,456  39,857  24,742  24,793  23,047
Net Cash Flow                          28,273  29,755  32,950  37,172  39,112
Incremental Net Cash Flow                   -   1,482   4,677   8,899  10,839
Financial Rate of Return: Greater than 50%



- 51 -                             ANNEX 3
Table 4
Page 3
/a The markup is a weighted average of commissions and margins of legal
wholesale market jobbers, NACF jobbers and unlicensed wholesalers.
/b Ninety percent of loans to farmers and shi'ppers totaling W 26,525,000.
TC  Thirty-nine percent of loans to farmers and shippers.
/d  Two hired workers x W 275,000/worker/month x 12 months/year
/e Seventy-five percent of wages.
Tf  W 8,850/pyong/month x 10.5 pyongs x 12 months/year.
/g W 195,000/month x 12 months/year.
/h W 84,375/month x 12 months/year.
/i  W 500/pyong/month x 10.5 pyongs x 12 months/year.
/j W 25,161,000 to farmers for production ancl W 1,364,000 to shippers for col-
lection and transport.
/k Fifteen percent of commission/markup.
/1 W 250,000/pyong x 10.5 pyongs x 39% average proportion of operating capital
borrowed x 30%/year interest rate.
/m (W 25,161,000 x 3.5 month farmer credit + W 1,364,000 x 0.5 month shipper
credit) x 39% average proportion of operating capital borrowed x 2.5%/month
interest rate.
/n PYl, PY2 and first quarter of PY3 have cash inflow/outflow values identical
to those of the "without project" case. Notes below refer to PY3 and
beyond.
/co 863,000 kg/day Garag-dong fruit throughput - 169 fruit jobbers x 350 days/
year x W 679/kg x 1.01 quality premium in PY3 (1.02 in subsequent years) x
4.4% commission.
/p In PY3 and PY4, 25% of each fruit and vegetable wholesale company's net cash
flow after tax and depreciation reserve wculd be divided equally among its
106 jobbers. From PY5, this proportion wculd be 45%.
/q Seventy-five percent of W 2,000,000 of shares purchased at the start of the
second quarter of PY3.
/r W 250,000 x 10.5 pyongs returned by landlards at Yongsan.
7i These are identical to the corresponding costs in the "without project"
case.
/t At Garag-dong, W 7,500/pyong/month x 13.5 pyongs x 12 months/year.
/u At Garag-dong, W 500/pyong/month x 13.5 pyongs x 12 months/year.
/v W 0.5/kg-day x 504,000 kg-days (252,000 kg-days in PY3).
/w W 200,000/pyong x 13.5 pyongs.
Tx Original security deposit debt is amortized in two equal payments, half at
the start of PY4 and half at the start of PY5. Interest is 30%/year on the
unpaid beginning-of-year balance.
/y Thirty percent interest per year on the unpaid beginning-of-period balance.
Amortization is in three equal payments at mid-PY4, start of PY5 and mid-
PY5.
/z Contingency allowance is 10% of other costs at Garag-dong, excluding value
added tax. Moving costs are W 500,000 in PY3.
/aa One-eleventh of total transaction value at Garag-dong.



- 52 -                             ANNEX 3
Table 5
Page 1
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT
Cash Flow. Vegetable Jobber - Yongsan vs Garag-dong
(W-000)
Project year:  0-2       3        4       5       6-25
Without Project - Yongsan
Cash Inflow
Commission/markup /a                      62,069  62,069  62,069  62,069  62,069
Loan collections /b                       23,873  23,873  23,873  23)873  23,873
Short-term loans 7-c                      10,345  10,345  10,345  10,345  10,345
Subtotal                               96,287  96,287  96,287  96,287  96,287
Cash Outflow
Wages /d                                   6,600   6,600   6,600   6,600   6,600
Office operating costs /e                  4,950   4,950   4,950   4,950   4,950
Stall rental /f                            1,805   1,805   1,805   1,805   1,805
Telephone /g                               2,340   2,340   2,340   2,340   2,340
Electricity and water /h                   1,013   1,013   1,013   1,013   1,013
Cleaning /i                                  102      102     102      102     102
Credit for farmers and shippers /j        26,525  26,525  26,525  26,525  26,525
Commission rebates to farmers,
shippers /k                              9,310   9,310   9,310   9,310   9,310
Debt service:
Security deposit interest /1               497      497     497      497     497
Short-term loan interest IM                721      721     721      721     721
Short-term loan principal 7c            10,345  10,345  10,345  10,345  10,345
Subtotal                               64,208  64,208  64,208  64,208  64,208
Net Cash Flow                          32,079  32,079  32,079  32,079  32,079



- 5, -                             ANNEX 3
Table 5
Page 2
Project year:  0-2        3       4        5       6-25
With Project - Garag-dong /n
Cash Inflow
Commission /_                              62,069  54,809  53,478  53,478  53,478
Dividends on wholesale company
shares                                        -   1,961   3,233   7,506   7,700
Loan for share purchase Iq                      -   1,500         -       -        -
Security deposit /r                             -   4,250         -       -        -
Loan collections                           23,873   5,968         -       -        -
Short-term loans                           10,345   2,586         -       -        -
Subtotal                                96,287  71,074  56,711  60,984  61,178
Cash Outflow
Wages, office operations, telephone,
electricity and water Is                 14,903  14,903  14,903  14,903  14,903
Stall rental /t                             1,805   1,362   1,215   1,215   1,215
Cleaning /u                                   102       86       81      81       81
Chilled storage /v                              -        9       19      19       19
Credit for farmers and shippers            25,525   6,631         -       -        -
Commission rebates for farmers,
shippers                                  3,310   2,328        -        -        -
Wholesale company share purchase                -   2,000         -       -        -
Security deposits /w                            -   2,700         -       -        -
Debt service:
Security deposit interest /x                497      148      32        -        -
Security deposit principal7x                  -        -       -      108        -
Share purchase interest                       -      338     375       75        -
Share purchase principal *Y                   -        -     500   1,000         -
Short-term loan interest                    721      180       -        -        -
Short-term loan principal                10,345   2,586        -        -        -
Contingencies and moving costs /z               -   2,995   1,712   1,740   1,622
Valued added tax /aa                            -   3,572   4,862   4,862   4,862
Subtotal                                64,208  39,838  23,699  24,003  22,702
Net Cash Flow                             32,079  31,236  33,012  36,981  38,476
Incremental Net Cash Flow                      -    (843)    933   4,902   6,397
Financial Rate of Return: Greater than        50%



- 54 -                             ANNEX 3
Table 5
Page 3
/a The markup is a weighted average of commissions and margins of legal
wholesale market jobbers, NACF jobbers and unlicensed wholesalers.
/b Ninety percent of loans to farmers and shippers totaling W 26,525,000.
7; Thirty-nine percent of loans to farmers and shippers.
7; Two hired workers x W 275,000/worker/month x 12 months/year.
7e Seventy-five percent of wages.
7f W 8,850/pyong/month x 17 pyongs x 12 months/year.
W 195,000/month x 12 months/year.
7E W 84,375/month x 12 months/year.
7'! W 500/pyong/month x 17 pyongs x 12 months/year.
7-i W 25,161,000 to farmers for production and W 1,364,000 to shippers for col-
lection and transport.
/k  Fifteen percent of commission/markup.
7T W 250,000/pyong x 17 pyongs x 39% average proportion of operating capital
borrowed x 30%/year interest rate.
/m (W 25,161,000 x 3.5 month farmer credit + W 1,364,000 x 0.5 month shipper
credit) x 39% average proportion of operating capital borrowed x 2.5%/month
interest rate.
/n PY1, PY2 and first quarter of PY3 have cash inflow/outflow values identical
to those of the "without project" case. Notes below refer to PY3 and
beyond.
/o At 4.4% commission.
7fi In PY3 and PY4, 25% of each fruit and vegetable wholesale company's net cash
flow after tax and depreciation reserve would be divided equally among its
106 jobbers. From PY5, this proportion would be 45%.
La Seventy-five percent of W 2,000,000 of shares purchased at the start of the
second quarter of PY3.
/r W 250,000 x 17 pyongs returned by landlords at Yongsan.
7; These are identical to the corresponding costs in the "without project"
case.
/t At Garag-dong, W 7,500/pyong/month x 13.5 pyongs x 12 months/year.
7u At Garag-dong, W 500/pyong/month x 13.5 pyongs x 12 months/year.
7; W 0.5/kg-day x 38,000 kg-days (19,000 kg-days in PY3).
7w W 200,000/pyong x 13.5 pyongs.
7x Original security deposit debt is reduced to W 108,000 by the much smaller
Garag-dong security deposit required; the debt is carried at 30%/year to the
beginning of PY5, then paid off in a single payment.
a  Thirty percent interest per year on the unpaid beginning-of-period balance.
Amortization is in three equal payments at mid-PY4, start of PY5 and mid-
PY5.
/z Contingency allowance is 10% of other costs at Garag-dong, excluding value
added tax. Moving costs are W 500,000 in PY3.
/aa One-eleventh of total transaction value at Garag-dong.



- 55 -                               ANNEX 3
Table 6
Page 1
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT
Cash Flow; Fresh Fish Wholesaler (Existing Markets)
vs. Jobber (Garag-dong)
(W'000)
Project year:  0-2         3         4         5        6-25
Without Project - Existing Markets
Cash Inflow
Commission/markup /a                   27,730   27,730   27,730   27,730   27,730
Loan collections /b                     12,975   12,975   12,975   12,975   12.975
Short-term loans Ic                     2,307    2,307    2,307    2,307    2,307
Subtotal                            43,012   43,012   43 012   43,012   43,012
Cash Outflow
Wages /d                                 8)100    8,100    8,100    8,100    8,100
Office operating costs /e                4,500    4,500    4,500    4,500    4,500
Stall rental /f                            980       980       980       980       980
Telephone /g                             2,340    2,340    2,340    2,340    2,340
Electricity and water /h                   420       420       420       420       420
Reating /i                                 500       500       500       500       500
Ice /j                                   1,160    1,160    1,160    1,160    1,160
Credit for fishermen                    14,417   14,417   14,417   14,417   14,417
Debt service:
Security deposit interest /k              27       27        27        27        27
Short-term loan interest /1               58        58       58        58        58
Short-term loan principal/7c          2,307    2,307    2)307    2,307    2,307
Value added tax /m                       2,003    2,003    2,003    2,003    2,003
Subtotal                            36,812   36,812   36,812   36 812   36,812
Net Cash Flow                        6,200    6,200    6,200    6,200    6,200



- 56 -                              ANNEX 3
Table 6
Page 2
Project year:  0-2         3         4         5        6-25
With Project - Garag-dong /n
Cash Inflow
Commission /o                           27,730   24,749   23,991   23,991   23,991
Dividends on wholesale company
shares /p-                                         547    1,070    2,631    2,70
Loan for share purchase /q                   -    1,500          -         -         -
Security deposit /r                          -       554         -         -         -
Loan collections                        12,975    3,244          -         -         -
Short-term loans                        2,307        577         -         -         -
Subtotal                            43,012   31,171   25,061   26,622   26,700
Cash Outflow
Wages /s                                 8,100    6,150    5,500    5,500    5,500
Office operations /t                    4,500    3,975    3,800    3,800    3,800
Rental fee /u                              980       859       819       819       819
Telephone 5-                            2,340    2,340    2,340    2,340    2,340
Electricity and water /v                   420       250       194       194       194
Heating                                    500         -         -         -         -
Cleaning /w                                  -        41        55        55        55
Ice /x                                   1,160    1,222    1,243    1,243    1,243
Chilled storage /y                           -       134       269       269       269
Credit for fishermen                    14,417    3,604          -         -         -
Wholesale company share purchase             -    2,000          -         -         -
Security deposit /z                          -    1,820          -         -         -
Debt service:
Security deposit interest /aa             27       27         27         -         -
Security deposit principal Faa             -         -         -        89         _
Share purchase interest /bb                -      338       375         75         -
Share purchase principal 7b                -         -      500    1,000           _
Short-term loan interest                  58        14         -         -        -
Short-term loan principal             2,307        577         -         -         -
Contingencies and moving costs /cc           -    2,676    1,512    1,538    1,422
Value added tax /dd                      2,003    2,145    2,181    2,181    2,181
Subtotal                            36,812   28,172   18,815   19,103   17,823
Net Cash Flow                        6,200    2,999    6,246    7,519    8,877
Incremental Net Cash Flow                 -   (3,201)       46    1,319    2,677
Financial Rate of Return:             48%



- 57 -                             ANNEX 3
Table 6
Page 3
/a  At 3.6% weighted average commission or markup of legal wholesale market
jobbers, NACF jobbers and unlicensed wholesalers.
/b  Ninety percent of loans to fishermen tctaling W 14,417,000.
7Y  Sixteen percent of loans to fishermen.
/d  Three paid employees x W 225,000/employee/month x 12 months/year.
/e  W 6,000/day x 350 days/year for employee food; W 200,000/month x 12 months/
year for other costs.
/f  Weighted average of legal jobbers and quasi-wholesalers:  W 10,750/pyong/
month x 7.6 pyongs x 12 months/year.
/g  W 195,000/month x 12 months/year.
/h  W 25,000/month x 12 months/year for electricity; W 10,000/month x 12 months/
year for water.
/i  W 125,000/month x 4 months/year.
/j  W 11.83/kg ice x 0.1 kg ice/kg fish x 2,800 kg fish/day x 350 days.
/k  Weighted average of legal jobbers and quasi-wholesalers.  W 554,000/stall.
Interest is W 554,000 x 16% borrowed portion of operating capital x 30%/year
interest rate.
/1  W 14,417,000 loans to fishermen x 16% borrowed portion of operating capital
x 1 month average period of loan x 2.5%,/month interest rate.
/m  Weighted average of legal jobbers and qliasi-wholesalers: 0.26% of total
transaction value.
/n  PY1, PY2 and first quarter PY3 cash flow values are identical to those of
the "without project" case. Notes below refer to PY3 and beyond.
/o  W 786/kg x 1.01 quality premium in PY3 (1.02 in subsequent years) x 2,850
kg/day x 350 days/year at Garag-dong x 3% commission.
/p  In PY3 and PY4, 25% of each fish wholesale company's net cash flow after
tax and depreciation reserve would be divided equally among its 95 jobbers.
From PYS, this proportion would be 45%.
/q  Seventy-five percent of W 2,000,000 of shares purchased at the start of the
second quarter of PY3.
/r  Weighted average of Seoul fresh fish stall security deposits, received from
landlords at time of move to Garag-dong.
/s  Two paid employees x W 225,000/employee/month x 12 months/year.
7t  W 4,000/day x 350 days/year for employee food; W 200 000/month x 12 months/
year for other costs.
/u  W 7,500/pyong/month x 9.1 pyongs x 12 months/year.
7v  W 47/kWh x 110 kWh/month x 12 months/year for electricity; W 110/cu m x
100 cu m/month x 12 months/year for water.
/w  W 500/pyong/month x 9.1 pyongs x 12 months/year.
7x W 11.83/kg ice x 0.1 kg ice/kg fish x 2,8500 kg fish/day x 350 days/year.
/y  W 0.5/kg-day x 538,000 kg-days/year (269,000 kg-days in PY3).
/z  W 200,000/pyong x 9.1 pyongs.
/aa Original security deposit debt of W 89,00 serviced at 30%/year interest,
repaid at beginning of PY5.
/bb Thirty percent per year interest on unpaid beginning-of-period balance.
Amortization is in three equal payments at mid-PY4, start of PY5 and mid-
PY5.
/cc Contingency allowance of 10% of other co3ts at Garag-dong, excluding value
added tax. Moving costs are W 400,000 in PY3.
,/dd One-eleventh of total transaction value at Garag-dong.



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Table 7
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT
Financial Analysis
(W'000,000)
Project year:        0 /a        1           2         3        4        5        6      7-9       10      11-19    20      21-24       25
Benef its
To Government
Value added tax /b               -          -          -    4,198   5,820   5,820   5,820   5,820   5,820   5,820   5,820   5,820    5,820
Corporation, defense,
residence and welfare
taxes /c                       -          -          -    9,442  13,398  15,559  15,585  15,585  15,585  15,585  15,585  15,585   15,585
Subtotal                        -          -          -   13,640  19,218  21,379  21,405  21,405  21,405  21,405  21,405  21,405   21,405
To Garag-dong Agricultural
Market Authority
Market use fees /d               -          -          -    3,053   4,120   4,120   4,120   4,120   4,120   4,120   4,120   4,120    4,120
Rents /e                         -          -          -    2,548   3,397   3,397   3,397   3,397   3,397   3,397   3,397   3,397    3,397
Interest earnings /f             -          -          -       994   1,375   1,410   1,410   1,410   1,410   1,410   1,410   1,410    1,410
Parking /i                       -          -          -       474      632      632     632      632      632      632      632      632       632
Chilled storage /h               -          -          -        52      105      105      105     105      105      105      105      105       105
Subtotal                        -          -          -    7,121   9,629   9,664   9,664   9,664   9,664   9,664   9,664   9,664    9.664
Total Benefits /i               -          -          -   20,761  28,847  31,043  31,069  31,069  31,069  31,069  31,069  31,069   31,069
Costs
Investment costs /i           13,560    21,235    26,920   12,672           -        -        -        -  17,000        -  22,700         -  (38,349)
Market Authority oper-
ating costs /k                   -          -        181    2,785   3,537   3,903   4,269   4,543   4,543   4,543   4,543   4,543    4,543
Total Costs               13,560    21,235    27,101   15,457   3,537   3,903   4,269   4,543  21,543   4,543  27,243   4,543  (33,806)
Net Incremental Benefits    (13,560)  (21,235)  (27,101)   5,304  25,310  27,40  26,800  2               6   9,526  26,526   3,826  26,526   64,875
Net Present Value:  W           57,004
Financial Rate of Return:          287
/a  Included in PYO are all costs for land purchase and civil works incurred prior to loan effectiveness, inflated to the expected price
level at the time of loan effectiveness.
/b  VAT source is all wholesale companies and jobbers plus gas station and freezer company; incremental revenue is computed by subtracting
NACF-Yongsan and average legal fish wholesale market jobbers' VAT payments.
/c  Same sources as for VAT but excludes jobbers; Seoul Fruit and Vegetable Company (Yongsan) taxes are subtracted to yield incremental
revenue.
/d  Half of one percent of total transaction value, except shippers, who pay W 3,000 per use of the market.  Jobbers pay no market use fee.
/e  Generally W 7,500/pyong/month.  Higher for freezer company (W 12,000) and gas station (W 10,000).
/f  Security and tax deposits earn 16%/year.
/g  W 500/space/day, except outside retailers (W 750) and shippers (W 1,000).
/h  Jobbers pay W 0.5/kg-day, using about 50% of annual capacity.
/i  Excludes increased income taxes, local taxes, shippers' and related-items shop taxes.
/j  Investment costs exclude price contingencies.  Residual value based on building and civil works useful lives of 50 years, and furnished
equipment and materials useful lives of 10 years (for 75% of the costs) and 20 years (for 25% of the costs). Replacement of furnished
equipment and materials is shown in PY10 and PY20.
/k  Includes operating costs and excludes debt service, taxes, and depreciation reserve fund.



KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT
Economic Analysis
(W'000 000)
Project year             0          1          2         3         4        5      6-9        10     11-19    20       21-24      25
Benefits
Reduction in spoilage losses /a                             -          -          -    5 684    9,480   9,480   9 480   9,480   9 480   9,480   9,480    9,480
Improvement in product quality /b                           -          -          -    8,054   13,422  13,422  13 422  13,422  13,422  13.422  13,422   13 422
Reduction in transport delays /c                            -          -          -    3,434    4,578   4,578   4 578   4,578   4 578   4,578   4,578    4,578
Cost savings from backhauls /d                              -          -          -    2.735    6,382   9,117   9,117   9,117   9,117   9,117   9,117    9 117
Yongsan alternative land use /e                             -          -          -    2,851    3,801   3,801   3,801   3,801   3,801   3,801   3,801    3,801
Subtotal                                               _            -          -   22.758   37,663  40,398  40,398  40,398  40,398  40 398  40,398   40,398
Costs
Investment costs /f                                    12,204    19,110    24 228   11,405            -        -        -  15 300         -  20,430        -  (34,514)
Operation costs /g
Garag-dong Agricultural Market Authority                  -          -        172    3,280    3,143   3 490   3,838   3,838   3,838   3,838   3,838    3 838
Fruit and vegetable wholesale companies                   -          -          -   18,559   13,286  13,286  13 286  13,286  13,286  13 286  13,286   13,286
Fish wholesale companies                                  -          -          -    5,856    4,431   4,431   4,431   4,431   4,431   4,431   4,431    4,431
Fruit jobbers                                             -          -          -   (1,771)  (3,017) (3,009) (3,289) (3,289) (3 289) (3,289) (3,289)  (3,289)
Vegetable jobbers                                         -          -          -   (3,582)  (5,208) (5,134) (5 449) (5,449) (5,449) (5,449) (5,449)  (5,449)
Fish jobbers                                              -          -          -        71      (939)   (887) (1,118) (1 118) (1,118) (1 118) (1 118)  (1,118)
Freezer company and gas station                           -          -          -    1,645    2,194   2,194   2,194   2,194   2,194   2,194   2,194    2,194
Garag-dong agricultural production foregone /b            143         83         83        83        83       83       83       83       83       83       83        83
Yongsan conversion cost /i                                  -          -      1,550    1 550          -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -
Subtotal                                           12 347    19,193    26,033   37,096   13,973  14 454  13,976  29,276  13 976  34,406  13,976  (20,538)
Net Incremental Benefits                                (12.347)  (19,193)  (26,033) (14 338)  23,690  25 944  26,422  11,112  26 422   5 992  26,422   60 936
Net Present Value: 40 531
Economic Rate of Return: 25%
/a  Assumes spoilage losses in the market would be reduced from about 5.5% in fruit and vegetables and 2 3% in fish to 3.3% and 1 3%, respectively  by PY4
PY3 savings would be 60% of those in PY4   Conversion factor estimated at 0-80
/b  Higher prices for fresher products would reduce the quality loss rates from about 5.7% in fruit and vegetables and 3% in fish to 2.4% and 1.0%, respec-
tively, by PY4. PY3 savings would be 60% of those of PY4. Conversion factor estimated at 0 80.
/c  From reduced idling cost and running time depreciation, about 40% of the total savings from reduced intramarket congestion, 48% from reduced congestion
on roads adjacent to the market, and 12% from Garag-dong's proximity to producing areas.  Conversion factor estimated at 0.95
/d  Shippers normally return to producing areas with empty trucks  backhauling would save about W 120,000/trip.  Half of the 714 trucks supplying the new
market would begin backhauling by PY5, 35% would start by PY4, and 20% in PY3. Conversion factor estimated at 0.95.
/e  By conversion to a building supply area  Yongsan-s value added would increase about 10%; it is now estimated at 11 3% of total transaction value (6%
for fruit, 13.5% for vegetables). Conversion factor estimated at 0.95.
/f  Investment costs excluding price contingencies- Replacement of equipment and materials is provided for in PY10 and PY20, and PY25 shows the residual    H
value of buildings, civil works, and furnished equipment and materials.  Conversion factor estimated at 0.90.
/g  Incremental nontax costs of operating the market which can be related to the several economic benefits.  Conversion factor estimated at 0.95.
/h  World price of rice CIF Seoul US$481/MT (adjusted up US$22.50 for local transport, storage and handling, and down US$5.20 for farm-to-market transport)  X
x 4.5 MT/ha x 54 ha x W 685/US$1.00. PYI cost includes price-adjusted sum of 1980/81 production value.
/i  Base cost of W 3.1 billion split evenly between PY2 and PY3.  Conversion factor estimated at 0.90.



- 60 -                                ANNEX 4
Table 1
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT
Schedule of Early Events
Activity                                           Date
Award main civil works contract                   March 31, 1982
Study proposals for Bank review                   September 1, 1982
Establish GAMA Steering Committee                 October 30, 1982
Plan of action for closure of Yongsan
and transfer to Garag-dong for Bank
review                                          April 1, 1983
Draft GAMA regulations, and structure
and levels of fees for Bank review              June 30, 1983
Appointment of Advisory Committee                 July 1, 1983
Establishment of GAMA                             September 30, 1983
Appoint key officers of GAMA                      September 30, 1983



- 61 -                               ANNEX 5
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE M4ARKETING PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Project File Papers
Al Horticultural and Marine Product ]'roduction, Marketing and Consump-
tion Statistics (annual, regional and seasonal production;
consumption trends and projections for Korea and Seoul, marketing
margins and costs; price trends).
A2 Garag-dong Market Architectural and Structural Features
A3 Prevailing Agricultural Marketing Information System
A4 Seoul Metropolitan Government Financial Conditions.
B. Relevant Documents
Bl Agricultural Wholesale Market Planning and Preliminary Design:
prepared by Han Yang Engineering Company.
B2 Agricultural Wholesale Market Project: Cost Estimates March 1981
prepared by Seoul Metropolitan Gorernment (Four Volumes).



- 62 -
Figure 4.1
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT
Proposed GAMA Organization
Advisory Committee                        Board of Directoir
_           I~~~~nternal
Auditor
|  President 
rVice-President|
Di!rector                                      Director                                                   Dir cmtor
Trainitig and Butineu                             Administration                                               Technical
Division                                       Division                                                   Divis;hn
Chief
Chief                 Chief                    Chief               F      and                   Chief                Chief                  Chie
Training              Business              Administration          Acounting                 Mechanical             Electrical               Civil
Section               Section                  Section                             Section      Soctn                Section                Section
World Bank - 2299t



IBRD 15838R
KOREA                             127 00'                                                    1270       NOVEMEER TMt
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT
CITY OF SEOUL
PROPOSED NEW MARKET SITE
]    OTHER FUTURE MARKET SITES
FUTURE MARKET SERVICE AREA BOUNDARIES
A     EXISTING WHOLESALE FRUIT AND VEGETABLE MARKETS
*     EXISTING WHOLESALE FISHMARKETS                                                          ,. 34
37~40'            SUPPLY ROUTES (% of Total)                                                                                                                                       370'
Z5 =1     FRUIT  AND VEGETABLES                                      $                      ,
\F        FISH
PRIMARY ROADS
-'-i-.-RAILWAYS
CENTRAL SEOUL CITY AREA                                           |u YU
GU (DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES
SEOUL SPECIAL CITY BOUNDARIES
KILOMETERS
0        5                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~10 
_____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT
NORTH KOREA         fo~e-                                   IiII~J.T
126I50'                                                   127K00'                                                   127;103
I- Deleo.
Daeg.
Mo?gPo            "     '   UO                                                                                                                            31
Th, d____   -d.00J    -O65 d the
126'50'                                                   127 00'                                                   127'10'



I 



I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD 15846
KOREA                                          <        
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE MARKETING PROJECT -'   ..
MAR KET SITE PL AN                               '     '            A." 
/                               -    \(9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'ATERTATENT PLANT
~~XZ/rkXf~ -f  t ---  GA o_     \\\                 W/_               ___--                            5        A10 2)
G                                                                                               ----- - ----- ------ ER
L--W iE-\Vi=                                                                                                   iE



I                                                                                                                                      I 



v~~                                         AY
1                  ~~~~~WORLD  OLYMPIC GAMES'
W~~~~~~00~2O -./  /  % I g
~~~~~~~~~ op
8,oc~ ~ ~                        IL                                    /
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
KOREA
AGRICULTURAL WHOLESALE                                                                          5SE-ONVG\AMA4 CITY
MARKETING PROJECT
LAND USE
Garag Dong
ROADS 
EXISTING MAJOR ROADS
__    PROPOSED MAJOR ROADS
EXISTING PRIMARY ROADS
--       PROPOSED PRIMARY ROADS
oo DOr) SUBWAY UNDER CONSTRUCTION
PROPOSED RAILWAY
RESIDENTIAL AREAS                      (                                        12J
HIGH DENSITY                                                    N        KOREA
MEDIUM DENSITY                                                          //
LOW DENSITY
COMMERCIAL AREAS
WATER SUPPLY
-        EXISTING
PROPOSED                      p
GAS PIPELINE
EXISTING                                             |6
PROPOSED
154 KV TRANSMISSION LINE (PROPOSED)                             su
k?  SUBSTATION
K LOMITERS
T                           -34/                        343
s(PANOO INTERCHANGE
Ti,<  T  6,,,,          1,26         12S         ST



