OFFICIAL
OCUMENS  LOAN NUMBER 2111 KO
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Agricultural Wholesale Narketing Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2111 K0
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   4AJ       1      , 1982, between REPUBLIC
OF KOREA (hereinafter ca led the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)  the Project will be carried out partly by the Borrower
and partly, with the Borrower's assistance, by the Seoul Metro-
politan Government (hereinafter called "SMG") and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to SMG the
proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and SMG;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and SMG of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;


﻿-2-
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SMG pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time;
(c)  "MAF" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
of the Borrower;
(d)  "OCE" means the Office of Construction and Engineering
of SMG responsible for carrying out the construction activities
of SMG;
(e) "GAMA" means the Garag-dong Agricultural Market Author-
ity to be established by SMG under the Project; and
(f) "Project Account" means an account to be established by
SMG under Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement to which amounts
required from time to time for the purposes of the Project shall
be credited.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty
million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time  by  agreement between   the  Borrower  and  the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the Bor-
rower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to seven hundred
thirty-eight   thousand   nine   hundred   and   sixteen  dollars
($738,916). The fee shall be payable in such currency or curren-
cies as the Bank shall specify. In the event that the Bank shall
not have received full payment of the fee by the Effective Date,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and pay to itself the amount required for the full pay-
ment of the fee in the currency or currencies specified for the
purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the
Project through MAF with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative and agricultural market-
ing practices, and shall provide to MAF, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purposes.
(b)  Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause SMG to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of SMG therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,


﻿-4-
necessary or appropriate to enable SMG to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance. Without limita-
tion on the foregoing, the Borrower shall credit or cause to be
credited to the Project Account at the end of each quarter the
funds estimated by SMG to be required from the Borrower and SMG
for Part A of the Project during the next succeeding quarter. The
initial crediting of the Project Account shall be made not later
than June 30, 1982.
(c)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan
required for Part A of the Project to SMG under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SMG, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank
and which shall include provisions pursuant to which: (i) SMG
shall repay to the Borrower the principal amount of the subsi-
diary loan in accordance with an amortization schedule, from the
date of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, covering a term of 14
years including a grace period of 3 years; (ii) SMG shall period-
ically pay to the Borrower interest, at an annual rate equal to
the rate specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, and an
administration charge of 0.05 per cent per annum, on the prin-
cipal amount of the subsidiary loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time; and (iii) SMG shall bear the foreign exchange
risk, except as the Borrower, the Bank and SMG may otherwise
agree.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02 (a) Before carrying out Part B of the Project,
but not later than September 1, 1982, the Borrower shall cause
MAF to submit to the Bank for its review and approval a detailed
description of the studies to be undertaken thereunder and a
plan, including a timetable, for the execution of those studies.
(b)   In order to assist MAF in carrying out Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause MAF to employ consultants whose
selection, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with
the principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for


﻿-5-
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency", published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods for
the purposes of Part B of the Project to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or
repair such goods.
(b)    The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower through MAF shall furnish to
the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for Part B
of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b)  The Borrower through MAF: (i) shall maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of
Part B of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services for the
purposes of Part B of the Project financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; and (ii)
shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank from time to
time such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning institutional arrangements for management of agricultural
wholesale markets and concerning Part B of the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of Part B of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or


﻿-6-
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution of Part B of the the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their
respective   obligations  under   the  Loan   Agreement  and   the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. Not later than July 1, 1983, the Borrower
shall appoint, and thereafter maintain, an Advisory Committee to
be responsible for providing advice to the Board of Directors of
GAMA on matters affecting agricultural marketing. The Advisory
Committee shall include representatives, inter alia, of the Bor-
rower's Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning Board, MAF, SMG,
the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation, the Agriculture
and Fishery Development Corporation and the Korea Rural Economics
Institute.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in th- allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, sucn lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-7-
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrowei or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held, by
any institution performing the functions of a certral bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functir s, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain r cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate       reflect in
accordance - with   consistently   maintained   soun!  accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditurES, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)  The Borrower shall: (i) have the records and separate
accounts referred to in paragraph (r) of this Section for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning said separate accounts, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall not take any action that
would adversely affect the financial condition of GAMA. If,
notwithstanding paragraph (a) and (b) of Section 3.05 of the
Project Agreement, GAMA incurs any deficits in its operations,
the Borrower shall cause SMG, in consultation with the Bank, to
finance such deficits.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) SMG shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that SMG will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The Local Government Autonomy Law (Law No, 2437 of the
Borrower) shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
SMG to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action: (i) for the dissolution or dis-
establishment of SMG, or, after its establishment, GAMA; (ii) for
the suspension of the operations of either SMG or GAMA; or (iii)
for the transfer of a major portion of SMG's or GAMA's assets to
another entity without the prior approval of the Bank.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   Any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower and SMG.
(b)   Any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement


﻿-9-
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions:
(a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and SMG; and
(b) the establishment of the Project Account by SMG.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by SMG, and is legally binding upon SMG in accordance
with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SMG and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and SMG in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date  A(L?S          , is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section  2.0  of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Republic of Korea
Seoul, Korea
Cable address:                     Telex:
MOF                              K23243
Seoul


﻿- 10 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By       .
uthoized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 11 -
SCEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for
items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated                 % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures.
Category         Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) Civil works          27,000,000              45%
(2) Materials and        12,000,000               100% of foreign
equipment                                   expenditures,
other than                                  100% of local
ready-mixed                                 expenditures
concrete and                                (ex-factory)
asphaltic                                   and 65% of
concrete                                    local expen-
ditures for
items procured
off-the-shelf
(3) Ready-mixed           8,000,000              85%
concrete and
asphaltic
concrete
(4) Consultants'            600,000               100% of for-
Services                                    eign expendi-
and Overseas                                 tures or 50%
Training                                     total
(5) Fee                     750,000              Amount due
(6) Unallocated           1,650,000
TOTAL     50,000,000


﻿- 12 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.      The disbursement percentages have been     calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement...
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount .of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.     If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no


﻿- 13 -
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A
1.    The construction of the Garag-dong agricultural wholesale
market in Seoul, consisting of:
(a) a fruit and vegetable market building having a total
floor space of about 107,000 sq. m.;
(b) a fish market building having a total floor space of
about 40,000 sq. m.;
(c) related item market buildings having a total floor
space of about 11,200 sq. m. and a retail market build-
ing to accommodate about 215 dealers;
(d) cold storage facilities having a capacity of about
1,830 tons and quick freezing facilities for about 25
tons per day;
(e) an administration building of about 11,500 sq. m.,
including office facilities for GAMA and for an
Agricultural Marketing Information Center; and
(f) utility facilities, including, gas, electricity, water
and telecommunications, and disposal facilities for
garbage and solid an' liquid waste.
2.    The construction of about 3.5 km of market-related roads,
including an underpass, inter-market streets and parking facili-
ties.
3.   The establishment of GAMA.
Part B
1.   The provision of technical assistance:
(a) To prepare a 10-15 year perspective master plan for
agricultural marketing improvement, including guide-
lines for both governmental and private initiatives;
and


﻿- 15 -
(b) To prepare feasibility studies for agricultural market-
ing improvement.
2.   The provision of training in agricultural wholesale market-
ing.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1984.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                       (Expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1985
through   October 1, 1995                   2,275,000
On   April 1, 1996                                2,225,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                    2.50%
More than three years but                                4.95%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                              8.30%
more than ten years
before maturity
More than ten years but not                              9.95%
more than twelve years
before maturity
More than twelve years                                  11.60%
before maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   AILday of 444,198_.
FOR SECRETARY


