DOUM  T      LOAN NUMBER 2111 ED
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Wholesale Marketing Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK POR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPHENT
and
SEOUL MTROPOLITAN GOVERNMENT
Dated                                 , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2111 KO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECON9TRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and SEOUL METROPOLITAN GOVERNMENT (here-
inafter called SMG).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Korea (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty million
dollars ($50,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that SMG agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set
forth;
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SMG, part of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
SMG on the -terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS SMG, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SMG shall carry out Part A of the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, through OCE with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist SMG in the supervision of
the construction of Part A of the Project, SMG may if necessary
employ one or more consultants whose selection, qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank in accordance with the principles and the
procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency", published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for Part A of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) SMG undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by SMG to replace or repair such goods.
(b) SMG shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) SMG shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) SMG: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Part A of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in Part A of the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning Part A of the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-3-
(c)  Upon the award by SMG of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality
of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d) Promptly after completion of Part A of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between SMG and
the Bank, SMG shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of Part A of. the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by SMG and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.
Section 2.06. SMG shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, SMG shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision therof.
Section 2.07. Prior to the Effective Date, SMG shall
establish an account to be known as the Project Account to be
credited from time to time with amounts, including amounts lent
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, required for Part A of the
Project. SMG shall thereafter maintain the Project Account until
the completion of Part A of the Project.
Section 2.08. (a) SMG shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part
A of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)   SMG shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by SMG of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) Not later than October 30, 1982, SMG shall
establish a Steering Committee to be responsible:


﻿-4-
(i) for preparing draft regulations and articles of
incorporation for the establishment of GAMA, draft
rules and regulations for the operations of the
Garag-dong market, and draft proposals for an
appropriate structure and levels of market rents,
fees and other charges. The draft articles of
incoporation of GAMA shall provide, inter alia,
(A) that responsibility for the overall management
and operation of GAMA shall be vested in a Board
of   Directors   comprising   a  President,   Vice
President, Internal Auditor, the Directors of the
Business, Administration and Technical Divisions
and a wholesaler conducting business in the
Garag-dong market; and (B) that the Board of
Directors shall be guided by such advice as may be
rendered to it by the Advisory Committee described
in Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement; and
(ii) for recommending to SMG, personnel suitable for
recruitment as the first President and the first
Directors of the Business and Technical Divisions
of GAMA.
(b) Not later than June 30, 1983, SMG shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment the draft documents specified in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section. SMG shall take .into considera-
tion the Bank's comments in preparing the final documents.
(c)   SMG shall appoint a President and Directors of the
Business, Administration    and Technical Divisions of GAMA not
later than September 30, 1983.
Section 2.10. SMG shall take or cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all
such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
the construction (and operation) of the facilities included in
the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.
Section 2.11. It ia the intention of SMG and the Bank that
the market facilities to be constructed under Part A of the
Project will achieve, within six months after the Closing Date
specified in Section 2.04 of the Loan Agreement, and thereafter


﻿-5-
maintain, optimum capacity utilization. SMG shall take such
action as may be necessary to achieve this purpose, including,
without limitation on the foregoing, the termination of agricul-
tural and fishery wholesale marketing at the Yongsan market to
coincide approximately with the opening of the market facilities
to be constructed under Part A of the Project. Not later than
April 1, 1983, SMG shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for its
review a plan for the said termination of agricultural and
fishery wholesale marketing at the Yongsan market, and for an
orderly transfer of its activities and trading community from the
Yongsan market to the Garag-dong market.
Section 2.12. Not later than the completion of the Project,
SMG shall construct the South Ring Road from Daechi-dong to the
Garag-dong market, including the Tancheon bridge.
ARTICLE III
Establishment, Management and Operations of GAMA
Section 3.01. (a) SMG shall, not later than September 30,
1983,   establish  GAMA   under   regulations   and  articles   of
association acceptable to the Bank.
(b)  Upon the establishment of GAMA, SMG: (i) shall confer
upon GAMA exclusive responsibility for the management and opera-
tion of the Garag-dong market; (ii) shall cause GAMA to adopt and
apply such resolutions as shall be necessary or desirable for
that purpose, including, without limitation on the foregoing, the
rules and regulations for the operation of the Garag-dong market
and the structure and levels of market rents, fees and other
charges, as provided in the final documents referred to in
Section 2.09 (b) of this Agreement; (iii) shall assign to GAMA
the right to receive the rents, fees and other charges derived
from the Garag-dong market; and (iv) shall assign to GAMA the
right to receive and retain the security required under Article
21 of Law No. 3248 of the Borrower.
Section 3.02. (a) SMG shall cause GAMA to carry on its
operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
business, administrative, financial, and marketing practices
under the supervision of experienced and competent management
assisted by qualified staff in adequate numbers.


﻿-6-
(b) SMG shall cause GAMA at all times to operate and main-
tain the buildings, facilities, machinery, equipment and other
property included in the Garag-dong market, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, business,
financial and marketing practices.
(c) SMG shall ensure that GAMA may create, acquire or have
any subsidiary only with the prior approval of the Bank. For the
purposes of this paragraph, the term "subsidiary" means any
entity of which a majority of the outstanding voting stock shall
be owned, or which shall otherwise be effectively controlled, by
GAMA or by one or more subsidiaries of GAMA or by GAMA and one or
more of its subsidiaries.
(d) SMG shall cause GAMA, promptly as required, to take all
action within its powers to maintain its corporate existence and
right to carry on its operations and to retain such land,
interests in land and properties, and to acquire, maintain and
renew such licenses, powers, franchises and other rights, as may
be necessary or useful in the carrying out of the Project or in
the conduct of its business.
Section 3.03. (a) SMG shall cause GAMA to maintain records
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures of GAMA.
(b)   SMG shall cause GAMA to: (i) have the records and
separate accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning said separate accounts,
records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.04. SMG shall take out and maintain or cause GAMA
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, insurance in
respect of the facilities constructed under Part A of the Project
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.


﻿-7-
Section 3.05. (a) SMG shall cause GAMA to generate revenues
from the collection of market rents, fees and other charges
sufficient to cover: (i) GAMA's operating costs; (ii) depre-
ciation, in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices, on the buildings, facilities, machinery
equipment and other property included in the Garag-dong market;
and (iii) all amounts due from SMG under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and any other borrowings.
(b) SMG shall cause GAMA, from time to time, to review and,
if necessary, adjust the level of market rents, fees and other
charges to ensure the continued observance of the provisions. of
paragraph (a) of this Section. If GAMA incurs any deficits in its
operations, SMG in consultation with the Bank, shall finance such
deficits.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants of SMG
Section 4.01. (a) SMG shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance   with   consistently   maintained   sound   accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of SMG responsible
for carrying out Part A of the Project.
(b)   SMG shall: (i) have the records and separate accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope.and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said separate accounts, records and expenditures and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿-8-
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of SMG thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify SMG thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SMG:
Seoul Metropolitan Government
31, Taepyong-Ro 1-Ga
Jung-Gu, Seoul 100
Republic of Korea


﻿-9-
Cable Address:                     Telex:
CITYH                              K24804
Seoul
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SMG, may be taken or executed by the
Director-General, Project Management Department of OCE or such
other person or persons as the said Director-General shall
designate in writing, and SMG shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, Unites States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SEOUL METROPOLITAN GOVERNMENT
By                        i
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   The civil works included in Part A of the Project, reinforc-
ing steel, cement and cold storage equipment shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.    For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, SMG shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the
case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. SMG shall provide the necessary information to update
such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.    The civil works included in Part A of the Project may be
awarded in a single contract to bidders which shall be prequali-
fied as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
SMG may supply the contractor for such civil works with necessary
materials   and  equipment   procured  in  accordance   with   the
provisions of this Schedule by SMG or by the Borrower's Office of
Supply on behalf of SMG.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port-of-entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the


﻿- 11 -
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Republic of Korea may be granted a margin or preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which would be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured       in  the
Republic of Korea if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of SMG and the Bank that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added in
Korea equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.     In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.


﻿- 12 -
4.    If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such
further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the
award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be
selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Ready-mixed concrete and asphaltic concrete and other build-
ing materials and supplies may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   SMG shall, before qualification for civil works is invited,
inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed, and
shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders,
together with a statement of their qualifications and of the
reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
shall be furnished by SMG to the Bank for its comments before the
applicants are notified of SMG's decision, and SMG shall make
such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said
list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to (i) all contracts to be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding and (ii) the contracts for
ready-mixed concrete and asphaltic concrete:
(a)  Before bids are invited, SMG shall furnish or cause to
be furnished to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the


﻿- 13 -
invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make or
cause to be made such modifications in the said documents or
procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before they are issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, SMG shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of
the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform SMG and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, SMG shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommenda-
tions for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform SMG and state the reasons for such
determination.
4.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, SMG shall inform the Bank of


﻿- 14 -
the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order and
the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the
proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agree-
ment, shall promptly inform SMG and state the reasons for its
determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy oi the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of.PhkL, 198&.
FOR SECRETARY


