Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7435-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT I PROJECT - PARANA
DECEMBER 8, 1988
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =        Brazilian Cruzado (Cz$)
US$1.00                =        CZ$ 190.00 1/
US$1.00                =        Cz$ 603.00 2/
Cz$ 1.00               =        US$.001658 2/
Cz$ 1 Million          =        US$1,658 2/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
FISCAL YEAR
State of Parana        =        January L to December 31
Project                         January 1 to December 31
1! Exchange rate at the time of appraisal (end June 1988).
2/ Exchange rate as of December 6, 1988.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
APEPA               Associa,Ao Paranaenese de Empresas de Planejamento
Agricola
(Parana's Association of Agricultural Planning
Enterprises)
AU                  Assessoria de Administracao Setocial
(Project Administrative Unit)
BADEP               Banco de Desenvolvimento do Parana S.A.
(Parana State Development Bank)
BANESTADO           Banco do Estado do Parana
(Parana State Bank)
BB                  Banco do Brasil
(Bank of Brazil)
CAFE do PR          Companhia Agropecuaria de Fomento Economico do Parana
(Parana's Agricultural Company for Economic Prom3tion)
CELEPAR             Companhia de Processamento de Dados do Parana
(Parana's Data Processing Company)
CEMH                Comissao Estadual de Microbacias Hidrograficas
(Microcatchment State Commission)
CMMH                ComissAo Municipal de Microbacias Hidrograficas
(Microcatchment Municipal Commission)
DEFIS               Departamento de Fiscalizacao da SEAB
(SEAB's Sanitary Control Department)
DER-PR              Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem do Estado do Parana
(Parana State Road Construction and Maintenance Agency)
EMATER-PR/ACARPA   Empresa de Assistencia lecnica e Extensao
Rural do Parana
(Parana State Technical Assistance and
Rural Extension Company)
IAPAR               Instituto Agronomico do Parana
(Agricultural Research Institute of Parana)
IPARDES             Instituto Paranaense de Desenvolvimento
Economico e Social
(Parana's Economic and Social Development Institute)
ITCF-PR             Instituto de Terras, Cartografia e Florestas
do Estado do Parana
(Land, Cartography and Forest Institute of thie State of
Parana)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise bu disclosed without World Bank authorization.



NRs                 Nucleos Regionais da SEAB
(SEAB's Regional Offices)
OCEPAR              Organizacao das Cooperativas do Estado do Parana
(State of Parana Organization of Cooperatives)
OTN                 Obrigacao do Tesouro Nacional
(National Treasury Bond)
PMISA               Programa de Manejo Integrado dos Solos e Agua
(Soil and Water Integrated Management Program)
RFFSA               Rede Feroviaria Federal, S. A.
(Federal Rail Network Company)
SEAB                Secretaria de Estado da Agricultura e do Abastecimento
(State Secretariat of Agriculture and Supply)
SP.LAN              Secretaria de Estado do Planejamento e Coordenacao Geral
(State Secretariat of Planning and General Coordination)
SETR                Secretaria de Estado dos Transportes
(State Secretariat of Tra;.sport)
SNLCS               Survico Nacional de Levantamento e Conservacado do Solo
(National Service for Soil Conservation and Survey)
SUREHMA             Superintendencia de Recursos Hidricos e Meio Ambiente
(Superintendency for Water Resources and the
Environment)
UFPR                Universidade Federal do Parana
(Federal University of Parana)



BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT I PROJECT - PARANA
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ................................          1
II.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .................................          4
Agriculture in the National Economy .....        ................  4
Agricultural Development Policy .........................          4
Experience with Past Bank Lending .......................          5
The State of Parana .....................................          5
III.    THE PROJECT ...........      ..................................    8
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Origin ....       ...........   8
Project Area ..........      ..................................    9
Project -,jectives and Beneficiaries .....        ...............  9
Complementary Activities to the Project ....       .............   9
Project Description .....................................         10
-Adaptive Research .................................        10
-Rural Extension ...................................        11
-Incentive Program for Land Management, Soil
Conservation and Pollution Control Works .... ......    11
-Erosion Control Works Along Rural Roads ....     .......    13
-Lime Distribution Facilities ......................    14
-Forestry Development and Environmental Studies  ....    15
-Land Use Monitoring and Control ....       ...............    15
-Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation .        16
-Training .17
Project Organization and Implementation .17
-State Level .17
-Regional and Municipal Level .18
-Annual Planning and Budgeting .18
-Operating Agreements .18
-Accounts and Auditing .18
Project Cost .19
Financing Plan .19
Procurement .20
Disbursements and Special Account .21
The project is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which
visited Parana from June 20 to July 6, 1988. The mission comprised of
Messrs. J. P. Delsalle (Mission Leader) and M. Fairless (Agro-Economist,
Consultant).



Page No.
Project Benefits and Justification .....     .................    21
-Production, Benefits and Farm Incomes ....   .........    21
-Environmental Impact ..............................    22
-Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery .....     ..............    22
-Economic Analysis .................................    23
Project  Risks   ...........................................  23
IV.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....     ..............    23
ANNEXES:
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DETAILED DESCRIPTION .26
Table 1.1  Evolution of State GDP Real Rate of
Growth (1970-1986) .38
Table 1.2  Evolution of Land Tenure (1970-1985) .39
Table 1.3  Comparative Evolution of Crop Yields, Level  of
Mechanization, Use of Modern Inputs, Use of Credit
and Migration of Rural Population (1970-1986)           40
Table 1.4  Selected Microcatchment Distribution per
Municipality, Microregion and Macroregion and
Criteria for Selection ................... ........    42
Table 1.5 Annual Cost Phasing of Project Activities .44
Table 1.6  Summary Account by Project Component .45
Table 1.7  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .46
Table 1.8 Allocation of Loan Proceeds .47
Table 1.9 Financing Plan .48
Table 1.10 Project Physical Targets and Implementation
Schedule .49
ANNEX 2: PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING ._........    52
Table 2.1  List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies .54
Chart 2.1  Program and Project Coordination and
Management Chart .55
Chart 2.2  Project Administrative Unit (AU)
Organizational Chart .56
ANNEX 3: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS ............... .........    57
Table 3.1  Characteristics of Illustrative Farm Models
Tested in Financial Analysis ......................    60
Table 3.2  Estimated Benefited Areas and Yields and Producti n
of Major Crops Without Project and at
Full Development .61
Table 3.3  Project Economic Analysis .62
Table 3.4  Principal Prices Ueed for Financial and
Economic Analysis .63
Table 3.5  Project Sensitivity Analysis .65



Page No.
ANNEX 4:  DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE ....     ............    66
MAPS:  IBRD 21116 -   Project Area - Adaptive Research and Training
IBRD 21117 -   Project Area - Rural Extension
IBRD 21118 -   Project Area - Lime Distribution Facilities
and State Parks and Forest Reserves



BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT I PROJECT - PARANA
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers            State of Parana.
Guarantor:           Federative Republic of Brazil.
Executing Agency:   State Secretariat of Agriculture and Supply (SEAB).
Amount:              US$63.0 million equivalent.
Terms:               Repayable over 15 years on a fixed amortization
schedule, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Beneficiaries:       Some 165,500 farmers, most of them small-scale farmers,
residing in some 2,100 selected microcatchments,
representing about 25Z of the area of the State of
Parana would directly benefit from the proposed
project. A larger number of rural and urban families
would also benefit from reduced silting of dams, less
flooding and pollution of water sources, as well as
from improved conservation of the state's natural
resources.
Project Objectives
and Description:    The proposed project would be the first in a series of
pioneer state projects aimed at supporting innovative
technical approaches for economically viable investment
in soil conservation. The project objectives are to
increase agricultural production and farm incomes by
promoting the adoption of sustainable modern forms of
land management and soil and water conservation by
Parana's farmers. Use of these techniques would: (a)
improve farm profitability through cost-effective and
sustainable productivity gains, and better land use;
and (b) halt soil loss, the silting of river beds and
dams, floods, the destruction of rural roads, pollution
of water sources and depletion of natural resources.
The project would also assist the Secretariat of
Agriculture and Supply in improving its efficiency in
the implementation and expansion of soil conservation
program activities. In order to meet its objectives,
the project would support: adaptive agricultural
research; rural extension; an incentive program for
land management, soil conservation and pollution
control works carried out by farmer associations;
erosion control works along rural roads; lime
distribution facilities; forestry development and
environmental studies; land use monitoring and control;
project administration, monitoring and evaluation; and
training.



Project Risks:       The project's principal risk is that the interest among
the farming community in controlling soil erosion could
fail to expand as a result of: (a) farmers' reluctance
to use commercial investment credit for conservation
activities in the current uncertain and inflationary
economic environment; (b) insufficient inter-
institutional cooperation; and (c) shortfalls in
counterpart funding. The project has been designed to
minimize these risks. The establishment of the soil
conservation fund to ?ssist microcatchment farmer
associations in financing s' 1 conservation and
pollution control works, the availability of green
manure crop seeds and of planting material for
commercial forestry development, the substantial
reduction in transport costs of lime, and the overall
participatory philosophy of the project should
encourage farmers to invest in soil conservation
activities. The integration of most project executing
agencies under the authority of the Secretariat of
Agriculture and Supply, the setting up of a strong
monitoring and evaluation system, and intensive staff
training should ensure efficient project coordination.
Finally, the state's relatively good financial status
and the support the project enjoys among state
authorities should help secure adequate counterpart
funding.



- 3 -
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Local    Foreign    Total
(US$ million)
Estimated Project Costs
-Adaptive Research                             14.1        1.5      15.6
-Rural Extension                               19.8        0.9      20.7
-Incentive Program for Land
Management, Soil Conservation and
Pollution Control Works                      15.8       4.1       19.9
-Erosion Control Works Along Rural Roads    21.6           5.2      26.8
-Lime Distribution Facilities                   3.9        1.5       5.4
-Forestry Development and
Environmental Studies                         10.2        1.0      11.2
-Land Use Monitoring and Control                4.0        0.2       4.2
-Project Administration, Monitoring
and Evaluation                                3.4       0.2        3.6
-Training                                       3.5        1.1       4.6
Total Baseline Costs                            96.3       15.7     112.0
-Physical Contingencies                          5.8        1.6       7.4
-Price Contingencies                            16.5        2.4      18.9
Total Project Costs                            118.6       19.7     138,  I/
Financing Plan
-Parana State Government                        75.3        --       75.3 1/
-IBRD                                           43.3       19.7      63.0
Total                                     118.6       19.7      138.3
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY:           1989 2t  1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
(in US$ million)
Annual               4.0      8.6    9.6    9.4    8.6    8.2    7.4    6.2    1.0
Cumulative           4.0    12.6   22.2   31.6   40.2   48.4   55.8   62.0   63.0
Rate of Return: 242
Maps: IBRD 21116, 21117 and 21118
Li Including US$13.9 million of local taxes.
'/ Including initial deposit of US$3.0 million into the Special Account



- 4 -
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SFCTOP.
Agriculture in the National Economy
2.01     During the 1970s, the total area planted with crops in Brazil rose
at 3.3Z per year and sectoral GDP grew at an annual average rate of 6Z.
This high growth rate was fueled primarily by the development of export
crops (soybeans, citrus, tobacco, coffee and cocoa) and, in the latter part
of the decade, by sugarcane production for the alcohol program. Total
agricultural exports rose from US$2.09 billion in 1970 to US$9.43 billion
in 1980. Production was particularly dynamic in the expanding frontier
states of the Center-West (Goias, Mato Grosso do Sul and parts of Minas
Gerais), but also grew steadily in the traditional agricultural states of
the South.
2.02     After 1980, the sector entered a period of relative stagnation and
slow growth, caused in part by sector-specific Government intervention
(trade and price controls), overall macroeconomic management difficulties
and by falling world commodity prices. The total area planted to crops in
Brazil grew at only 1.7Z per year between 1980 and 1986 (compared to 3.3Z
in the previous decade,, and the output of many basic food crops (wheat,
maize, cassava, potatoes, rice, beans, meat and milk) remained relatively
constant and rose only modestly in 1984 and 1985, with the result that per
capita food production declined significantly and food imports increased to
about US$2 billion in 1986. Agricultural exports exhibited a similar
pattern, with virtually little or no growth since 1980, except in 1984 when
coffee and orange juice were aided by favorable price movements. In 1987,
rising domestic agricultural prices, coupled with favorable weather
conditions, contributed to a record grain harvest of 65 million mt.
Pre.ently agriculture accounts for about 12% of GDP, 30% of employment and
33Z of exports.
Agricultural Development Policy
2.03     Concerned about the decline in per capita food production, the
Government is placing greater emphasis on increasing food production for
internal consumption. This focus is reilected in the Government's targets
for agriculture, which include the production of an additional 15 million
tons of grain by 1990 and almost 50 million tons by the yeai 2000. These
figures are estimates of the quantities necessary to attain, and maintain,
self-sufficiency in grains. Policy measures in support of this objectives
have included: (a) raising the percentage of production costs of food crops
financed with official rural credit; and (b) increasing their minimum
prices in relation to those for export crops.
2.04     At the same time, falling commodity prices and increasing
production costs have forced farmers and the Government to seek more cost-
effective technologies to intensify the use of existing farmed lands and
rural infrastructure. This intensification is evident in a growing
interest in irrigation, soil conservation, environmental protection,
livestock disease control, more efficient marketing and storage, and more
widespread application of the results of agricultural research.
2.05     In the foreseeable future, agricultural growth will depend
substantially on increased productivity, reasonable output prices that will



- 5 -
encourage investment, and the availability of long-term credit. Improved
technologies are already available because of impressive research results
in plant breeding, soil-water management and farming systems. For pricing
and credit policies, however, eurther adjustments are needed to encourage
more rapid adoption of these technologies. Historically, agricultural
pricing has been subject to frequent intervention by the Government.  The
approach, for the most part, has been to keep output prices below border
parity, both to contain consumer price levels and to gener&te fiscal
revenues via federal and state taxes on the gross value of farm output.
Current reforms being pursued by the Government and the Bank include the
introductionl of more freely functioning conunodity markets.  Progress is
being made : wards these reforms under the Credit and Marketing Reform Loan
(Ln. 2727 BR), which was approved by the Board in June 1986. With respect
to rutal credit policies, between US$9 and US$14 billion of official credit
have been directed annually to agriculture over the past ten years,
particullily l.y the Bank of Brazil and state banks, at subsidized rates of
inteiest. In periods of high inflation, the banks have incurred
substantial losses in the value of their rural credit portfolios. In July
1987, positive, real interest rates were reintroduced for most official
rural credit, includinig correction for inflation of outstanding balances.
Further rationalization of rural credit policies is being pursued in the
context of new Bank-supported agricultural credit operations, the
Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2971-BR) and the Agro-Industries IV
Project (Loan 2960-BR) both approved in June 1988. These operations are
aimed at facilitating an expansion of commercial (unsubsidized) credit
while simultaneously contracting the supply of official credit.
Expereence Wirth Past Bank Leiding
2.06     As of September 30, 1988, the Bank has made 50 loans, totailing
US$4,426.8 million (net of cancellations), for agricultural and rural
development in Brazi]. These loans include: one agricultural credit and
export loan for US$303 million; one agricultural credit loan for US$300
million; one credit and marketing reform loan for US$500 million;
supplemental financing for TUS$30.5 million under the Special Action
Program; four loans for US$785.8 million for agroindustries; three for
US$111.5 million for livestock, including a disease control project of
US$51 million; one for US$18.2 million for grain storage; two for
US$100 million for agricultural research; two loans for US$255 million for
agricultural extension; one for US$100 million for land tenure improvement;
one for US$48.5 million for forestry development; one for US$195 million
for the irrigation subsector; and 32, totaling US$1,679.3 million, for
various settlement, irrigation, and rural development projects in the
Northeast, in Minas Gerais, and in the North and Northwest. The proposed
project would be the first free-standing land management and soil
conservation project in Brazil.
The State of Parana
2.07     Location and Natural Features.  Parana, the second largest of the
three southern states with a total area of 199,554 km2 (2% of Brazil), is
located between the Stdtes of Sao Paulo and Mato Grosso do Sul and the
State of Santa Catarina. Its natural resource base has favored both
agricultural and industrial development. It location between latitudes 220
and 270 inakes Parana suitable for buth tropical and temperate agriculture.
Winters ave cool, and rainfall, which ranges from 125C mm in the North to



2000 mm or more annually in the South and Southeast, comes mainly in the
hot summer months when intense storms can occur. Sedimentary soils occupy
the first 250 km when moving inland from the Atlantic coast. They give way
to basalt soils in the elevated center of the state, and then to soils
derived from sandstones as the land falls away again towards the
Northwestern border o' the state.  Sedimentary and sandstone-derived soils
show a marked response to acidity correction and all three groups are
relatively susceptible to erosion.
2.08     Economic and Social Conditions.  Agriculture dominated the economy
of Parana in the early yeats of the century when settlement began.
Currently 35Z of the state poptilation (2.8 million people) of about 8.1
million lives in rural areas, less than half the figure for 1960. Between
1970 and 1985 about 2.6 million people left the rural areas in search of
improved incomes and standards of living, moving either to cities or
agricultural frontier areas further north. Despite demographic trends and
industrial growth, the state's agricultural sector remains important, still
providing 18Z of state's GDP in 1986 (Annex 1, Table 1.1) and 48Z of
employment.
2.09     Land Tenure, Use and Production.  Parana's land ownership is the
most concentrated of the three Southern states (Annex 1, Table 1.2). While
farms under 100 ha (94Z of all farms) occupy 40? of total farmland, farms
over 1,000 ha (0.3Z of all farms) cover 252 of total farmland. About two-
thirds of the 468,000 rural properties are owner-operated. In 1985, some
42 of farmland was planted to permanent crops, 28Z to annual crops, and
almost 31Z was under improved or natural pasture; only 121 was under
natural or planted forest. The balance represented fallow or uncultivable
land   The state currently generates around 252 of national grain output;
it is the major producer of wheat, cotton and maize (52%, 29% and 212 of
national output, respectively) and contributes a substantial share of the
national production of potatoes (23Z), soybears (20Z), coffee (14%), edible
beans (10Z), cassava (7Z), pork (14%), chicken (13%), milk (8%) and beef
(72).
2.10     Agricultural Services.  In 1987, agricultural services were
allocated only 3.7% of the state budget, but 52 was budgeted in 1988.
However, some 95Z of the funds are absorbed by operating costs, and there
is an acute shortage of investment capital. The State Secretariat of
Agriculture and Supply (SEAB) is responsible for sectoral planning and
government support services. Key state institutions responsible to SEAB
include: the Agricultural Research Institute of Parana (IAPAR) which has
165 graduate researchers, 854 technicians, 17 experimental stations, and 11
laboratories; the Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company (EMATER-
PR), which has roughly 890 field extensionists and has taken the principal
executing role in the state Soil and Water Integrated Management Program
(PMISA); the Land, Cartography and Forest Institute (ITCF), with 132
technicians, which is responsible for forestry, conservation and the
environment, as well as land affairs and resource mapping; and the
Agricultural Company for Economic Promotion (CAFE do PR) which is
responsible for government heavy machinery services, seed production and
input supply. In addition, SEAB's Sanitary Control Department (DEFIS) is
responsible for monitoring and quality control of seeds, planting material,
input use, and enforcing the State Law for Natural Resource Protection.1
1/ State Law for Natural Resources Protection No. 8014 of 12/14/84
regulated by Decree No. 6120/85.



- 7 -
Farm credit is channelled through the Bank of Brazil. (BB), the State
Developme;it Bank (BADEP), the State Bank (BANESTADO), and many private
banks. As would be expected in a state with highly developed agriculture,
the private sector and producer cooperatives are very important: the great
majority of input supply and most marketing are through these channels;
CAFE do PR aims to provide only a back-up capability for machinery
services. The 63 producer cooperatives, grouping 190,000 members, have
slightly more field extensionists than EMATER-PR and there are 262 private
agricultural consultancy companies with some further 760 advisory staff.
Cooperatives have also made a notable contribution to adaptive research.
2.11     State's Past Experience in Agricultural Developmet and Soil
Conservation. Much of the natural forest, which originally covered over
85% of Parana, had been removed by 1960 when the agricultural frontier
reached the state boundaries.   With the intensification of agriculture
since then, and import-saving regulations in the 1970s which compelled
local industries to switch from oil to wood fuel, only vestiges of the
natural forest now remain.  In the same period worsening winter frosts
killed large areas of coffee, the main perennial crop planted by the
original settlers. Many small-scale coffee planters sold their land to
larger-scale mechanized farmers who converted the land to winter wheat and
summer soybean or maize.
2.12     Lengthening periods of such annual cropping using heavy machinery
and shortened fallow periods have caused soil compaction and structural
degeneration. These and the greater surface exposure under annual cropping
systems, when challenged by the highly erosive rainfall, have led to
increasing proportions of rain being lost as surface runoff with alarming
increases in soil erosion, silting and flooding. Problems have been
compounded ty inappropriate alignments of rural roads, many of which either
discharge their drainage water into farmers' fields or which become
drainage channels for surface runoff. Most annual crop yields are either
static or declining. Production costs are rising as farmers attempt to
compensate for declining fertility with increased inputs (Annex 1,
Table 1.3). Furthermore, careless pesticide mixing and disposal and the
discharge of untreated animal and human wastes are increasing chemical and
biological pollution of rural areas.
2.13     Concern for these problems led Parana to launch in 1983 a Soil and
Water Integrated Management Program (PMISA) to improve land management in
600 selected microcatchments (microbacias), using community initiatives to
promote the integrated adoption by all local land users of the practices
most appropriate to their area. While PMISA, at its early stage, relied
mainly on expensive mechanical structures supported by a costly incentive
program, its recent technical strategy follows modern soil conservationi
concepts. It now relies firstly on increasing soil cover -- mainly through
improved crop vigor, increased cropping intensity, green manure and
mulching -- to protect soil from surface sealing by rainsplash; secondly,
on alternative cultivation techniques (such as reduced or no tillage and
direct planting) and organic manuring to improve internal drainage;
thirdly, on low-cost vegetative contours; and, only as a final resort, on
mechanical barriers (bunding, terraces, realignment of rural roads) to
handle excess runoff. This strategy attracts farmers by offering immediate
increases in productivity and returns, rather than the delayed benefits
characteristic of traditional approaches to soil conservation based



- 8 -
primarily on mechanical structures. Substantial state subsidies have been
provided, often in a scattered way, particularly for liming -- crucial to
achieving rapid crop cover -- for green manure crop seeds, fon  commercial
forestry planting materials, and for part of the costs to small farmers of
runoff control structures and pollution control works.
2.14     PMISA is coordinated at state level by a Microcatchhcn. Commission
(CEMH), on which SEAB, EMATER-PR, banks, cooperatives, fainers and rural
workers are represented, and by currently 130 municipai level conurii ssions
(CMMHs) which group local representatives of state governmenLt services,
banks, cooperatives, farmers and rural workers under the coo.dinat.lon of
the EMATER-PR local office.  Microcatchments participating hi 't4MIA in
addition have residents' associations, supported by the local 'èl1AT1XR-PR
office, which mobilize community participation in planning and execution of
integrated microcatchment land management and soil conservation plans.
Response to PMISA has generally been very positive in the most advanced
farming areas, although less so among traditional producers, despite the
need for: (i) better integration and training public and private extension
agents, and (ii) improved effectiveness of the current incentive program
(subsidies distributed without appropriate farm development plan and
administered by three different agencies).
III. THE PROJECT
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Origin
3.01     The Bank's assistance strategy in Brazil is to suppol-t policies
and investments that will encourage economic growth ard social development
in a context of macroeconomic stability.  The emphasis is oni vtficient
resource allocation, increased efficiency in the public sector, and the
appropriate targeting and delivery of support systems to the poor. As the
agricultural sector becomes increasingly mechanized and input-consuming,
land management and soil conservation issues are gaining importance, both
in terms of sustaining productivity improvements in the sector and
protecting natural resources and local ecosystems. The increasing soil
erosion problems of the nation's most intensely utilized and productive
farmlands of the South and South-East threaten to undermine past ef{ic.,ency
gains. Through its support for the proposed project, the first in a series
of pioneer state projects, the Bank would assist the State of Parana in the
development of innovative approaches for economically viable investment in
soil conservation and overall land management with the objective of halting
natural resource degeneration and raising economic retuJrns fiom .he state's
agriculture. After further testing, it is expected that these appIroaches
could be extended and adjusted to other states and other Legions.
3.02     The Brazilian authorities have long been concerned with tlhet need
to improve land use, conserve soil and limit rural pollution. Tihf 'e'eral
Government's proposal in 1983 for the Bank to finance a national  )l
conservation project was rejected as too technically and institutjonl uA
complex because of Brazil's diversity and lack of experience in laldt
management.  Since then, UNDP/FAO technical assistance in soil
conservation, first launched in 1982, has had a catalytic role by promoting
in a few states (Parana and Santa Catarina) modern concepts of soil
conservation based on increased soil cover and protection of the organic
layer. While earlier soil conservation programs relied mainly on



- 9 -
traditional approaches (costly mechanical structures), the new PMISA
approach, as reflected in the proposed project, would combine a
participatory philosophy with a broader and more integrated technical
strategy, supported by a more effective incentive program and implemented
by trained extension agents.
3.03     The project was appraised by the ;ank in June/July 1988, and
negotiations took place in November/December 1988 in Washington, D.C. The
Brazilian delegation was led by Ms. Patricia Goes Bakaj from the Federal
Ministry of Planning.
Project Area
3.04     The project would support soil conservation in 2,100 selected
microcatchments, including 300 microcatchments where activities have
already been initiated under PMISA, covering five million hectares (25Z of
the state area) distributed among the state's 311 municipalities. The
selected microcatchments, identified in government surveys, have large
numbers of small-scale farmers, high actual or potential levels of economic
activity, and/or importance as sources of urban water supply (Annex 1,
Table 1.4).
Project Objectives and Beneficiaries
3.05     The objectives of the proposed project wotuld be to increase
agricultural production and farm incomes by promoting the adoption of
sustainable, modern forms of land management and soil and water
conservation, thus safeguarding farmer incomes and the state's natural
resources. This would be achieved by promoting actions to: (a) increase
the extent and duration of vegetative cover of the soil, thus better
protecting it from sealing under intense rainfall; (b) improve internal
soil structure and drainage, thus increasing water infiltration; and (c)
safely dispose of any remaining runoff, either within or outside farm
boundaries. The results would be increased farm profitability, while soil
loss, the silting of reservoirs and stream beds, floods, the destruction of
rural roads, falling water tables, pollution of water sources and depletion
of natural resources would be reduced. The project would also strengthen
the State of Parana's capacity to implement more efficiently an expanded
state-wide land management and soil conservation program. It would benefit
about 165,500 farmer families, many of them small-scale farmers,
representing 41Z of the total of farm operators in the state.
Complementary Activities to the Project
3.06     Rural Development.  Following elections in early 1987 the new
Parana government drew up a comprehensive five-year plan (PARANA RURAL) to
provide the state with additional rural infrastructure and social support
to follow up on an earlier IDB-financed regional rural development project
(PRORURAL). While IDB assistance was sought to finance the physical and
social infrastructure components. Bank assistance was requested for the
components related to land management and soil conservation and protection
of natural resources -- essentially the state-wide expansion of an improved
PMISA. The proposed project and the possible IDB-assisted rural
development project are self-standing initiatives which would complement
each other.



- 10 -
3.07     Agricultural Credit.  The official credit system and the
participating banks (public or commercial) under the Agricultural Credit
P;oject (Loan 2971-BR) would provide project beneficiaries with on-farm
investment credit to allow them to adopt the new practices required for
improved land management and soil and water conservation. Based on
histcric data, investment credit requirements would amount to about
US$100.0 million, equivralent to some 35Z of estimated incremental on-farm
investments of about US$290.0 million. To overcome farmers' reluctance to
use investment credit in the currently inflationary environment, the State
Development Bank (BADEP), based on its previous successful experience with
a similar mechanism, intends to establish and operate, through annual
budget allocations, a compensation fund which would work as follows:
farmers' debt and interest payments would be indexed as a stated quantity
of product (e.g., maize), valued at the official minimum price; in the
event that the increase in minimum prices in a given year lags behind the
National Treasury Bond (OTN) index, the compensation fund would pay farmers
the difference, if any, between their debts indexed in product and in OTN.
Although the compensation fund would not be included in project costs or
financed by the Bank, its innovative mechanism would be closely monitored
during project implementation.
Project Description
3.08     The proposed project would have the following components:
(a) adaptive research, focusing on improved soil cover and structure; (b)
rural extension, using both public and private extension services, to
assist in planning and execution of microcatchment soil conservation plans;
(c) financial assistance to microcatchment farmer associations through an
incentive program, gradually phased out during project implementation,
which would provide partial grants for land management, soil conservation
and pollution control works which result in wider social and economic
benefits; (d) erosion control works along rural roads to reduce erosion in
the microcatchments; (e) rail terminal facilities to reduce transport costs
of lime, an input often crucial to achieving rapid crop cover;
(f) commercial and conservation forestry and environmental studies t.o
develop reforestation and protect state parks and forest reserves; (g) land
use monitoring and control; (h) project administration, monitoring and
evaluation; and (i) training. Project components are described briefly
below (with, in parentheses, the relative percentages of total project
costs) and in Annex 1.
3.09     Adaptive Research (13Z).   To strengthen IAPAR's adaptive research
on the twin themes of improved soil cover and soil structure, the proposed
project would include: (a) some 471 field research trials focusing on crop
nutrition, alternative cultivation practices, small-scale mechanization,
weed and pest control, and fruit and forest husbandry; (b) detailed
resource and socio-economic monitoring of five sample microcatchments; and
(c) annual production of 100 ha of seed for green manure crops. To carry
out these tasks an additional 56 researchers, 223 mid-level technicians and
about 45 support staff would be assigned to the project. The detailed
monitoring on five representative microcatchments would be undertaken
together with EMATER-PR, the Superintendency for Water Resources and the
Environment (SUREHMA), and the Federal University of Parana (UFPR) to
provide assistance with farm surveys, and the monitoring of soil erosion



- 11 -
and water pollution, respectively. Satisfactory terms of reference for the
moritoring of the five selected microcatchments have been prepared by
IAPAR. A new 200-ha IAPAR research station would be constructed and
equipped in the vicinity of Umuarama, an area where small-scale farming
dominates, to undertake research work on pasture management, soil
conservation, and crop rotation. In addition, a selection of obsolete
machinery and equipment would be replaced at existing IAPAR research
stations (Map IBRD 21116). A condition of loan effectiveness would be the
signing of satisfactory operating agreements (convenios) (i) between SEAB
and IAPAR and (ii) between SEAB, IAPAR, EMATER-PR, SUREHMA and UFPR,
outlining each agency's responsibilities for the execution of the research
component, and, specifically, for the monitoring of the five sample
microcatchments (para 4.03). Drafts of these agreements were reviewed and
adjustments agreed upon in substance during negotiations.
3.10     Rural Extension (182).  To assist microcatchment land users in the
planning and execution of their programs for improved land management and
soil conservation, the proposed project would finance; (a) an additional
167 EMATER-PR soil conservation extension teams (SCTs), each composed of
one senior Pnd one mid-level technician, and provide them with appropriate
field equipment; and (b) in 75 locations, where work space for the
incremental staff is inadequate, rehabilitation or construction of, and
equipment for, eight regional offices of 300 mz each and 67 local offices
of 60 to 85 m2 each (Map IBRD 21117). In response to the demand for
extension from the private sector which the project would generate, there
are expected to be parallel increases of 276 (138 SCTs) extensionists
funded by cooperatives and 480 (240 SCTs) provided by firms of agricultural
consultants. EMATER-PR field extensionists would be responsible for the
initial formation, in each new microcatchment, of a formal association of
farmers. Under the supervision and suppcrt of the subject-matter
specialist located at the EMATER-PR regional office, and using the
Technical Manual for Land Management and Soil Conservation (para. 3.13),
the SCT, together with the farmer association, would prepare a mutually
agreed land management and soil conservation plan for the microcatchment.
Technical targets would be set for each farmer, supported where necessary
by a written farm plan, a credit application and an applicatIon to the Soil
Conservation Fund (para. 3.11). Technical assistance at the farm level
would be provided from three possible sources: EMATER-PR, extension.sts
from cooperatives and independent agricultural consultants. A condition of
loan effectiveness would be the signing of a satisfactory operating
agreement (convenio) between SEAB, EMATER-PR, the State's Organization of
Cooperatives (OCEPAR), and the State's Association of Agricultural Planning
Enterprises (APEPA) creating a Coordinating Committee to agree on annual
work plans at state, regional, and municipal levels and establishing the
agencies' respective roles, extension targets, staffing plans, costs and
source of funds (para. 4.03). A draft of this agreement was reviewed and
adjustments agreed upon in substance during negotiations.
3.11     Incentive Program for Land Management, Soil Conservation and
Pollution Control Works (18Z). The objective of this component is to help
farmers belonging to a microcatchment association properly plan land
management and implement collective soil conservation and pollution control
works. The component would include the creation, through annual budget
allocations, of a Soil Conservation (SC) Fund with clearly established
criteria, grant rates and limits, and close monitoring. The SC Fund would



- 12 -
consolidate various existing state subsidies with a view to gradually
phasing out their total amount by the end of project implementation as the
benefits of the program become more visible to the farmers. The SC Fund of
about US$22.0 million (excluding price contingencies) would make grants to
partially finance on-farm soil conservation subprojects (from an initial
level of 30t, 50% and 70% in Year 1, declining to a final level in Project
Year 6 of 10%, 15%, and 30Z, respectively, depending on farm size) until
Project Year 7. The SC Fund amount would correspond to about 7.5% of the
total estimated on-farm investments over seven years and would represent on
an average yearlv basis about a 202 decrease in relation to the amount of
subsidies granted under PMISA in 1986 and 1987 on 300 microcatchments. Six
types of subprojects would be financially assisted: (i) for farmer groups:
purchase of 300 sets of specific farm implements to undertake reduced
tillage and improved land management practices; and construction of 440
cattle water supply systems and 2,650 agro-chemicals mixing points, both to
avoid pollution of streams and rivers; and (ii) for individual farmers:
collective land management practices on about 1.0 million ha (such as
contour farming and stripcropping, vegetative contours, stonewalls, bunding
and terracing); and purchase of 1,000 tons of green manure crop seeds and
planting material for 77,500 ha of commercial reforestation. The
preparation of a satisfactory Operational Manual to guide extension staff
on the detailed procedures of the SC Fund has been completed.
3.12     Institutional arrangements for the SC Fund would be as follows.
Before the fiscal year begins, the extension service would undertake a
field survey involving local and regional extensionists to estimate the
amount of resources that could be required the following year. The
Administrative Unit (AU) created within SEAB would be responsible for
administering the SC Fund and would consolidate the state's needs and
pzesent them for approval to the Microcatchment State Commission (CEM1H).
Once the financial ceiliLIg for the year's program had been established, the
A.U would not need to return to the CEMH for financial authorization for
disbursements from the SC Fund unless the approved ceiling had been
exceeded.
3.13     Within a particular microcatchment, the EMATER-PR soil
conservation team (SCT) would be responsible for arousing farmers' interest
in land management and for assisting in the drafting of a microcatchment
management plan. Land management plans for individual farms would be
drafted by SCTs with assistance from extensionists belonging to
cooperatives, and wherever present, by staff from agricultural consulting
companies. A Technical Manual for Land Management and Soil Conservation to
assist project extensionists in technical principles would be prepared
jointly by IAPAR and EMATER-PR through the consolidation and improvement of
the existing technical bulletins. The microcatchment management plan and
the requests for funds, both for collective and individual subprojects,
would then be reviewed by the respective Microcatchment Municipal
Commission (CMMH) for approval. As specified in the agreed Operational
Hanual, requests that had not been formally approved by at least two-thirds
of the members of the concerned microcatchment association would not be
forwarded to the CMMH. Approved plans from a municipality would be
reviewed and consolidated by the respective SEAB Regional Office (NR) and
transmitted to the CEMH for final approval together with the requests for
use of the SC Fund. The AU would then enter into a legal agreement with the
concerned microcatchment association, group or individual, specifying the



- 13 -
obligations of each party and the schedule for the execution of each
subproject. Partial disbursement by the AU to the concerned microcatchment
association, group or individual would only be made once the extensionist
responsible for the development of the subproject had verified its
satisfactory completion. SEAB's Sanitary Control Department (DEFIS) would
be responsible for the field inspection service controlling the proper use
of the SC Fund (para. 3.23).
3.14     During negotiations, the State Government provided assurances
that: (a) the agreed Operational Manual fo. the SC Fund, including the
timetable for the phasing out of subsidies, would be satisfactorily
implemented, and the provisions of the Manual would not be changed without
prior Bank approval; (b) a satisfactory Technical Manual for Land
Management and Soil ConservdJion would be presented to the Bank not later
than July 31, 1989; (c) the performance of the component would be annually
and jointly evaluated by the AU, EMATER-PR and DEFIS and the conclusions of
the evaluation presented to the Bank not later than March 31 in the
following year; and (d) as part of the mid-term evaluation of the overall
project and not later than July 31, 1993, the Bank and the AU would
examine, using specific criteria, including the degree of farmer
participation and responsiveness to the program and number of subloans and
amount of investment credit contracted by the project beneficiaries, the
possibility of accelerating the phasirg out of the incentive program (para.
4.01 (a));
3.15     Erosion Control Works along Rural Roads (26Z).  This component
would aim to overcome localized erosion problems caused by water run-off
along an existing network of some 28,000 km of gravelled or earth-surfaced
municipal roads in the project araa.  These various types of erosion
control works would be integral parts of the microcatchment management
plans (para. 3.10). The component would include: (a) road realignment with
regravelling on some 1,600 km; (b) various erosion control works spread
over a network of 12,200 km including slight road realignment with
resurfacing, construction of road and terrace junctions and flood control
tanks that allow for quick permeation of excess rutnoff; and (c) supervision
of road works. The AU would continue to have overall responsibility, as
has been the case under PMISA, as these municipal roads are not under the
State Road Construction and Maintenance Agency's (DER-PR) direct control.
About 70% of the expected total value of contracts for erosion control
works would be implemented through local competitive bidding with small,
local contractors; when the contracts are very small or scattered they
would be undertaken by the municipalities themselves ot by CAFE do PR.
3.16     DER-PR, which is a Department of the State Secretariat of
Transport (SETR), would assist SEAB/AU in the procurement of works and
would be responsible for supervision of the construction. DER-PR would
also continue to assist the municipalities in maintaining their rural road
networks. A condition of disbursement for the component would be the
receipt by the Bank of a satisfactory draft model of a contract for a set
of typical erosion control works along a rural road section, including
detailed specifications (para. 4.04). During negotiations, the State
Government provided assurances that, before the start of any project-
financed roadworks in a municipality, it would enter, through SETR, into an
operating agreement with the municipality concerned, requiring the
municipality to maintain such improved road sections and outlining the



- 14 -
administrative and financial arrangements for such maintenance
(para. 4.01 (b)). The draft model of such operating agreement was reviewed
and agreed upon during negotiations. A condition of loan effectiveness
would be the signing of a satisfactory operating agreement (convenio)
between SEAB and DER-PR, through SETR, outlining each agency's
responsibilities for the implementation and supervision of rural road works
(para 4.03). A draft of this agreement was reviewed and adjustments agreed
upon in substance during negotiations.
3.17    Lime Distribution Facilities (4Z).  This component is designed to
substantially reduce transport costs of lime from the quarries in the
eastern part of the state to the major grain producing areas in the west
through an increase in the use of the existing rail network that is run by
the Federal Rail Network Company (RFFSA).   The project would finance:
(a) installation of the main loading terminal at Araucaria, with a yearly
capacity of 1.3 million tons; and (b) the installation of four unloading
terminals (Apucarana, Cianorte, Guarapuava and Uniao da Vit6ria) with
yearly capacity ranging from 150,000 to 330,000 tons (Map IBRD 21118). An
existing fifth terminal originally built to unload clinquer at Maringa
would also be used for unloading lime. CAFE do PR would be responsible for
contracting the detailed engineering designs, and the supply and
installation of equipment financed under the project through one single ICB
contract (para. 3.36). During negotiations, the State Government provided
assurances that, prior to submitting the ICB documentation for Bank
approval, CAFE do PR would present proof of land ownership and satisfactory
detailed engineering designs for the five rail terminals to be constructed
during the project's first year (para 4.01 (c)).
3.18     CAFE do PR would also be responsible for the operation of the
terminals. It would act as a supplier for about 50% of the volume of lime
transported; for the remaining 50Z, farmers and cooperatives would purchase
lime directly from the quarries and pay a service charge to CAFE do PR for
handling of the lime through its terminals. However, CAFE do PR would be
able to supply lime to the farming community at very attractive prices,
given the bulk it would be purchasing.
3.19     A condition of loan effectiveness would be the signing of
satisfactory operating agreements (i) between SEAB, CAFE do PR, RFFSA and
DER-PR outlining each agency's responsibilities for the installation of the
terminals; and (ii) between SEAB and CAFE do PR defining each agency's
responsibilities for the operation of the terminals and establishing the
necessary administrative unit within CAFE do PR for the operation of the
terminals (para 4.03). Drafts of these agreements were reviewed and
adjustments agreed upon in substance during negotiations. During
negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that: (i) CAFE do PR
would enter, not later than December 31, 1989, into a transport contract
with RFFSA defining annual tonnages to be transported and transport rates;
(ii) starting from the end of 1990, the AU would conduct an annual review
of the operation of each terminal to ensure that the f'.nancial performance
of the terminal and the price of lime at the delivery point continue to be
satisfactory and would present to the Bark the conclusions of its review
not later than March 31 in each following year; and (iii) for the project
mid-term review, the AU and CAFE do PR would study the possibility of
leasing or selling one or more terminals to the private sector (para. 4.01
(d)).



- 15 -
3.20     Forestry Development and Environmental Studies (10Z).  This
component, subdivided into three subcomponents, would aim to assist the
state to develop its conservation and commercial forestry programs, as well
as protect and manage its parks and forest reserves. The conservation and
commercial forestry subcomponent would include (a) production of about 33
million seedlings of native species (such as Araucaria, Ocotea, Cordia,
Aspidoderma spp) to be planted for conservation purposes either at the
microcatchment level (15,000 ha) or in the state forest reserves (2,200
ha); and (b) production of about 186 million seedlings of pine and
eucalyptus species (to be planted for timber, housing poles, and fuelwood)
and Ilex Paraguaiensis (erva mate, or Paraguay tea that is consumed locally
and exported) as well as 19 tons of Mimosa Scabrella seeds (Bracatinga, a
native legume-tree that is planted for fuel wood). The parks and forest
reserves subcomponent would include: (a) improved protection and management
for 25 existing state parks and forest reserves in the project area; and
(b) studies and environmental infrastructure for the Parana section of the
Serra do Mar (including inventories and implementation of the management
plan for the Marumbi Protected Area and inventories and mapping outside the
Marumbi Area), for activities expected to be financed under a National
Environmental Project under preparation for possible Bank assistance. The
project would finance: a seed laboratory, additional civil works and
equipment for ITCF's existing nurseries, planting material for conservation
forestry; additional parks and forest reserve infrastructure (12 field
offices, 28 guard houses, 5 control towers, 3 fauna breeding centers and
fencing); construction of an environmental training center and three
control posts in the Marumbi Protected Area, inventories (24,000 ha),
mapping (100,000 ha); 6 man-months of technical assistance; and operating
costs for an additional 33 foresters, 18 technicians and 13 forest guards.
3.21     ITCF would be responsible for the execution of the component.  In
the case of seedlings produced for commercial forestry, currently provided
by ITCF free of charge, there would be a progressive reduction in
subsidies. Over the first three years of project implementation, ITCF
would charge the farmers 25%, 50% and 752 of the full cost of production
of the seedlings, respectively, and 100Z from Year 4 onwards. This
strategy, coL.bined with an increased technical assistance from ITCF's
nursery specialists, is expected to encourage private production of
planting material for small-scale commercial forestry from Year 4 onwards.
The subsidy in the project's early years would be costed as part of the
incentive program financed through the SC Fund, and the recovery procedure
included in the Operational Manual for the SC Fund.
3.22     During negotiations, the State Government assured that it would
provide the Bank no later than July 31, 1989 and June 30, 1990 with
satisfactory terms of reference for the studies and inventories to be
carried out within the Marumbi Protected Area and outside the Marumbi Area,
respectively (para. 4.01 (e). A condition of loan effectiveness would be
the signing of a satisfactory operating agreement (convenio) between SEAB
and ITCF outlining each agency's responsibilities for the execution of the
forestry development and environmental studies component. A draft of this
agreement was reviewed and adjustments agreed upon in substance during
negotiations.
3.23     Land Use Monitoring and Control. (4%).  This component would
support: (a) a land use monitoring system to be established by ITCF using
remote sensing and field data to map changes in land use and condition at



- 16 -
regular intervals; (b) a data base and mapping systesi to be established by
the State Institute for Economic and Social Development (IPARDES) to use
the data base and other existing physical and socic-economic data to
provide an integrated planning tool for future land use management; and
(c) a land use inspection service by SEAB's Sanitary Control Department
(DEFIS) to ensure that: (i) the state law for the protection of natural
resources (para. 2.10) is complied with; (ii) the funds awarded under the
SC Fund are used only for the purpose they were granted for; and
(iii) private and public nurseries produce and sell to project
beneficiaries only healthy seedlings from recommended varieties. The
project would finance mapping equipment and materials, 18 man-months of
technical assistance, and operating costs for 15 incremental ITCF and
IPARDES technicians and 23 incremental DEFIS technicians. The AU would
have overall responsibility for the administration of the component. A
condition of loan effectiveness would be the signing of satisfactory
operating agreements (convenios): (i) between SEAB, IPARDES, ITCF and
EMATER-PR; and (ii) between SEAB, through DEFIS, and EMATER-PR; outlining
each agency's responsibilities in the execution of the land use monitoring,
and land use control subcomponents, respectively (para. 4.03). Drafts of
these agreements were reviewed and adjustments agreed upon in substance
during negotiations.
3.24     Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation (32).  The
project Administrative Unit (AU) created within SEAB (Decree No. 4056 of
10/27/88), comprising a General Coordinator, assisted by five specialized
supervisors (incentive program, erosion control works along rural roads,
land use monitoring and control, training and rural credit), a Technical
Coordinator, an Administrative Coordinator, and a Financial Controller,
would administer and monitor project planning and implementation through
the eighteen existing SEAB's Regional Offices (NRs) which are well staffed
and, for the most part, already involved in PMISA. The project would
finance additional office equipment and operating costs for 11 high level
staff and two technicians. The AU, through its technical coordination,
would be directly responsible for the implementation of the following five
components: the incentive program for land management, soil conservation
and pollution control works; erosion control works along rural roads; land
use monitoring and control; training; and rural credit (not financed under
the project). It would receive monthly reports from the NRs and executing
agencies on key physical and financial indicators, prepare quarterly
consolidated monitoring summaries, and be responsible for the ongoing
evaluation. Baseline, mid-term and ex-post evaluations of the socio-
economic impact of the project would be the responsibility of IPARDES which
has already prepared satisfactory Terms of Reference for the baseline
evaluation. During negotiations, the State Government provided assurances
that: (a) it would maintain the AU with an organization, structure and
functions, including a General Coordinator assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers, all acceptable to the Bank; (b) quarterly progress
reports would be sent to the Bank not later than two months after the end
of each fiscal quarter; (c) the baseline evaluation would be sent to the
Bank not later than July 31, 1989; and (d) satisfactory Terms of Reference
would be presented to the Bank prior to the mid-term and ex-post
evaluations and the reports would be sent to the Bank not later than
July 31, 1993 and March 31, 1997, respectively (para. 4.01 (f)). A
condition of loan effectiveness would be the signing of a satisfactory
operating agreement (convenio) between SEAB and IPARDES outlining their



- 17 -
respective responsibilities for the evaluation of the project (para 4.03).
A draft of this agreement was reviewed and adjustments agreed upon in
substance during negotiations.
3.25     Training (4%).  A wide-ranging program would train public and
private technicians and farmers in modern land management and soil
conservation practices, as well as raise awareness of the technical
requiremenits and principles of soil conservation among community
representatives, politicians, project management and the public at large.
Component implementation would be the overall responsibility of the
Training Supervisor within the AU. It would include: (a) preparation of
two field manuals for the guidance of extension staff, the Operational
Manual on procedures of the SC Fund (which was completed prior to
negotiations), and the Technical Manual on technical principles to be used
in project execution; (b) 240 hours of advanced technical courses for some
100 subject-matter specialists and supervisors (c) a 40-hour basic
technical course for some 3,500 technical staff, and a 40-hour course on
conceptual and operational aspects of the project for some 1,800 technical
staff (EMATER-PR, cooperatives and private agricultural planning
enterprises); (d) two and three-day seminars for project supervisors and
technical staff, respectively; (e) some 9,700 half-day orientation meetings
and field demonstrations for benefitting farmers, and some 1,300 one-day
field excursions for farm leaders; (f) expansion of Londrina training
center and establishment of two outreach centers at IAPAR research stations
for extensionist and farmer training; (g) four-month practical courses
abroad for some 35 technicians, and 15 study tours; and (h) thirty man-
months of consultancy to assist returning trainees with the application of
knowledge gained, and support specialized local seminars and annual reviews
of project experience. Responsibility for the training of public and
private extensionists would be divided between EMATER-PR subject matter
specialists and IAPAR researchers. Farmer training, field days, excursions
and general public awareness campaigns, would be an extension
responsibility, relying, as appropriate, on EMATER-PR field staff or
existing radio, television and printing facilities. The first year's
training program was reviewed by the Bank at negotiations.
Project Organization and Implementation.
3.26     State Level.  The project would be one part of PARANA RURAL (para.
3.06) and would be executed by SEAB. At the state level, a Deliberative
Commission for PARANA RURAL, chaired by the Governor with the SEAB
Secretary as executive secretary and including the Secretaries of
Transport, Health, Education, Planning and Finance, has overal
responsibility for program policy, budgets, institutional coordination and
the integration of the proposed project with PARANA RURAL and other state
programs. The CEMH, created under PMISA (para. 2.14) and chaired by the
SEAB Secretary with the AU General Coordinator as executive secretary,
would review and approve project physical and financial timetables for
execution before their submission by the SEAB Secretary to the Deliberative
Commission. Separate budget and accounting lines would be maintained for
the Bank's financial participation. The AU would prepare budgets and
operating plans for final submission to the Deliberative Commission,
administer five components (para. 3.24), coordinate activities of the
various executing agencies, monitor project execution and prepare quarterly
progress reports and consolidated financial accounts.



- 18 -
3.27     Regional and Municipal Level.  At the regional and municipal level
the project would be implemented through the existing SEAB regional
structure of 18 NRs and, in some cases, with the assistance of existing
municipal agricultural offices. Contacts with farmers and communities
would be the responsibtlity of EMATER-PR. Coordination of project
executing entities -- private, communal and governmental -- as well as the
approval of microcatchment soil conservation plans and the processing of
requests for support under the SC Fund, would be the responsibility of the
CMMHs and SEAB Regional Offices (NRs).
3.28     Annual Planning and Budgeting.  Targets and costs established at
appraisal would be adjusted annually during the project implementation
period. In July of each year, each executing agency (IAPAR, EMATER-PR,
CAFE do PR, ITCF, IPARDES, DEFIS and the AU) would prepare an annual plan,
detailing the activities and expected expenditures for the following
calendar year. The AU would review these plans, consolidate them after
ensuring internal consistency, and submit the consolidated operating plan
and budget to the Deliberative Commission for its review and approval. The
consolidated operating plan and budget would be presented before August 30
to the State Government for further review and approval by the State
Assembly by October 31. During negotiations, the State Government would
provide assurances that the annual budget proposal, including the physical
targets, budget, staffing, training and procurement programs for each
executing agency, would be made available to the Bank by August 15 each
year for review and comments (para. 4.01 (g)).
3.29     Operating Agreements.  Agreements would be entered between:
(a) SEAB and executing agencies involved in the execution of each project
component; and (b) the concerned microcatchment farmer association, farmer
group, or individual prior to implementing a SC Fund-assisted subproject.
The ten agreements referred to in (a) above would include execution
guidelines and targets, reporting requirements, procedures for inter-agency
collaboration and funding conditions linked to performance criteria. The
signing of these ten agreements satisfactory to the Bank would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (para. 4.03 (a)).
3.30     Accounts and Auditing.  The Central Bank and each state executing
agency would maintain separate accounts for project expenditures, to be
audited annually by independent private or public auditors acceptable to
the Bank. The Central Bank would maixLtain the Special Account (para. 3.36)
and would prepare annually a "Statement of Transactions and Availability of
Funds" which would be oresented to the audit of either the Secretariat of
the National Treasury (STN) or an independent auditor acceptable to the
Bank. After the audit, and not later than six months after the close of
the project's f'scal year, the Central Bank would transmit to the Bank
certified copies of the audited account, together with a certified copy of
the auditor's report.
3.31     Statements of project accounts would be consolidated by and
retained in the AU office in Curitiba and made available for Bank
supervision. During the course of annual audits of project account, the
independent auditors would test check the preparation of the Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs) supporting disbursement requests, the internal controls
of project transactions and the implementation of these contrcls, the



- 19 -
supporting evidence for the expenditures and the eligibility of the
.-xpenses in accordance with the Loan Agreement. The audit report would
also include a description of the audit procedures followed. The state
executing agencies would maintain separate project accounts for the project
that would be available for review and spotchecked by the Bank during
supervision.
3.32     During negotiations, the Fed ral and State Governments provided
assurances that: (a) the Special Account and the project accounts would be
maintained and audited annually according tc standards and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) terms of reference of the auditors would
include, inter alia, detailed procedures for the examination and
verification of the SOEs for the project accounts; and (c) copies of these
two audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the
close of each project fiscal year (para. 4.02).
Project Cost
3.33     Total project costs are estimated at US$138.3 mill'on with a
foreign exchange component of US$19.7 million, or about 14% (Loan and
Project Summary). Foreign exchange requirements are based on the
assumptions that all goods and services will be acquired in Brazil with the
exception of foreign consultant services, fellowships, equipment for
railway terminal facilities and electronic equipment not manufactured in
Brazil. The cost estimate includes about US$13.9 million equivalent in
local taxes. Physical and price contingencies are equivalent to 6.6 and
17% of baseline costs, respectively. Physical contingencies were added to
baseline costs at 15% for civil works and 5X for equipment and furniture.
Price contingencies were estimated in US dollar terms, based on
international inflation rates estimated at 3% for 1988, 1989 and 1990 and
42 p.a. thereafter. It was assumed that periodic local currency
devaluations, estimated on a purchasing power parity basis, would
compensate for differences between projected US dollar inflation and local
inflation rates.
Financing Plan
3.34     The proposed Bank loan of US$63.0 million equivalent would finance
502 of total estimated costs, net of taxes, or 46% including taxes. The
loan would finance 100% of foreign exchange costs and 37% of local costs.
It would be repayable over 15 years, including a five-year grace period.
The Government of the State of Parana would be the Borrower of the loan and
would assume the foreign exchange risk. The Federative Republic of Brazil
would be the Guarantor of the loan. The Treasury of the State of Parana
would provide counterpart funds, except those required for rural credit.
Rural credit -..ould be financed either by the Federal Government under the
existing official rural credit line or by the Bank and participating banks
under the Agricultural Credit Project (para. 3.07). During negotiations,
the State Government (i) provided evidence satisfactory to the Bank that it
has budgeted the equivalent of US$14.0 million for expenditures required
for the project in 1989; and (ii) assured that it would continue to provide
adequate counterpart funding for the effective and timely execution of all
project compor.ents (4.01 (h)). To enable proiect executing agencies to
prepare for an early expansion of PMISA activities, start-up project
expenditures incurred after July 7, 1988 but prior to loan signing expected



- 20 -
by March 15, 1989, would be eligible for reimbursement up to US$2.5 million
equivalent, or 4% of the loan amount.
Procurement
3.35     Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Procurement Arrangements
(USS million)
Procurement Method
Category
ICB         LCB          Other        Total Cost
Civil Works, Land Development    1.0 ( .7)   46.7 (22.4)   19.4  (10.8)    86.1 (33.9)
Equipment                        6.2 (4.7)   10.2 ( 8.3)                   16.4 (13.0)
Technical Assistance and Studies                           1.8  ( 1.4)      1.8 ( 1.4)
Salaries and Allowances                                   38.1  (10.4)    88.1 (10.4)
Other Operating Expenses                                  16.9  ( 4.3)    16.9 ( 4.3)
Total                     7.2 (6.4)   66.9 (30.7)   75.20 (2e.9)   138.3 (83.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts (including contingencies) expected to be
financed by the Bank.
3.36     Contracts for civil works above US$500,000 and for goods above
US$250,000 would be awarded through International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
following Bank guidelines for procurement. These would include a turn-key
contract for the construction of one loading and four unloading railway
terminal facilities and the purchase of electronic equipment not
manufactured in Brazil. Total ICB procurement would amount to US$7.2
million of 9Z of total procurement of civil works and goods.
3.37     Contracts for civil works below US$500,000 would be procured under
Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), with procedures satisfactory to the Bank;
they would refer to: buildings, land development, on-farm soil conservation
works and erosion control works along rural roads; the aggregated value of
these works is estimated at about US$45.7 million. Contracts for soil
conservation and erosion control works are small and dispersed. Whenever
possible, individu.l lots of about US$25,000 would be grouped together
under one contract of US$250,000. Contracts for goods below US$250,000
would be locally procured by the several executing agencies over the
project implementation period, using LCB procedures satisfactory to the
Bank; the aggregated value of these contracts would amount to US$10.2
million. Vehicles, computers and electronic equipment manufactured in
Brazil required by the project, as reserved procurement items, would not be
financed under the proposed loan; their estimated cost of US$10.8 million
has been excluded from total project cost and the amount of the Bank loan
reduced accordingly. During negotiations, the State Government provided
assurances that those items would be procured in a timely manner (para.
4.01 (i)).
3.38.    When soil conservation and erosion control works are very small
and scattered, they would be carried by force account under written



- 21 -
agreemeletits withi SEAB. The aggregate value of such works would not exceed
US$19.4 miillion, or less than 30Z of total procurement of civil works.
3.39     Civil works contracts estimated to cost more than US$250,000 and
goo(ds Ait(d services contracts for more than US$150,000 would be subject to
priot  Batik review of bidding documents, bid  valuations, award proposals
and final contracts. In total, Bank prior review would cover about 65Z of
the value of contracts financed under the project. Consultant services for
technica] asFistance, totalling 57 man-months, would be contracted in
accoidanpe wsith Bank guidelines. During negotiations, the State Government
ptovided assurances that the above procurement arrangements would be
ollow1'ed (para. 4.02 (j)).
Di shur: ti  eI MTs (and Spec_ial Account
3.4,i)   Tlhe proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed at a rate of
80% againist project expenditures made for incentive programs for land
management, soil conservation and pollution control works (SC Fund) and
limte disttibution facilities, and 50% for erosion control works along rural
roads, forestry development and environmental studies, land use monitoring
and control, and training with the exception of imported electronic
equipment, training consultants and overseas training which would be
disbursed at a rate of 100%. Disbursements for the remaining components,
which have a high share of recurrent costs, would be made (with the
exception of imported laboratory equipment disbursed at a rate of 100%) at
a iate of 50Z of project expenditures until aggregate amounts of US$2.3
million for adaptive research, US$3.6 million tor rural extension and US$.6
milliotl for project administration have been disbursed. Thereafter,
disbursement for those categories would be made at a rate of 30Z of project
expenditures until aggregate amounts of US$3.9 million for adaptive
research, US$6.1 million for rural extension and US$1.0 million for project
administration have been disbursed; the remaining funds for these
componenits would be disbursed at 10% of expenditures. Disbursements for
civil works contracts not exceeding US$250,000, contracts for goods and
equipment not exceeding US$150,000, and operating expenses would be made
against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) prepared by the various executing
agencies and certified by SEAB. Supporting documentation would not be
submitted to the Bank but would be made available for inspection by the
Banlc during project supervision missions.
3.41     To facilitate Bank disbursements, a Special Account would be
opened in the Central Bank with an initial deposit of US$3.0 million. The
Central Bank would act as the channel for Bank loan disbursements.
Withdrawals from the Special Account would be supported by the required
documentation. In accordance with the Bank standard profile for similar
types of projects, disbursements are expected to occur over about seven-
and-a-half years as shown in the estimated disbursement schedule (Loan and
Project Summary).
Project Benefits and Justification
3.42     Production, Benefits and Farm Incomes.  The project would increase
agricultural production through sustainable productivity gains, a slight
increase In cropping intensity, and better land use (diversification into
fruit 'tees and commercial forestry). Within the 5 million ha covered by



- 22 -
the 2,100 microcatchments of the project area, about 1.1 million ha of
farmland (35% of area under annual crops, 20% of area under perennial
crops, 15% of area under pasture, and 12Z of area under forest, regrowth
and fallow) are expected to fully benefit from improved land management and
soil conservation practices. Of those, about 415,000 ha would receive
green manuring, about 365,000 ha would be deep ripped, about 1.0 million ha
would receive liming, and about .9 million ha would be subject to bunding,
vegetative contours, terracing, and other forms of soil erosion and
pollution control. Use of heavy tillage in land preparation would be
substantially reduced in the highly-mechanized farm lands. These
developments, together with is,aproved crop rotation, crop diversification
and varietal changes, and commercial reforestation are expected to lead at
full development to an annual incremental output value of US$210 million.
Approximately 75% of this amount would come from improved productivity of
five main crops (soybean, wheat, maize, edible beans and coffee), 23% from
diversification into fruit trees, erva mate, and commercial forestry, and
2% from improved pasture. The incremental production would be marketed
through existing commercial channels; local markets would absorb wheat,
maize, beans, beef, fruits and forest products. Soybean and coffee would
be exported. These expanded agricultural activities would create permanent
and temporary employment equivalent to somne 15,000 man-years annually.
3.43     Seven rainfed farm models representative of the six major
macroregions have been selected to test the financial impact of the
improved land management practices on farm incomes. Analyses show
financial rates of return ranging from 162 to 61Z. Net annual farm
benefits from the main crops, which currently vary from US$825 to
US$10,080, would increase at full development to a range of US.$895 to
US$10,220, instead of declining without the project to a range of US$825 to
US$8,450.
3.44     In addition to the directly quantifiable impact on yields and
output of the main agricultural and forestry products, the project is
expected to generate various indirect benefits such as a reduction in rural
road maintenance, the silting of river beds and reservoirs, flooding and
pollution of water sources.
3.45     Environmental Impact.  The project is expected to have a
significant, beneficial impact on the environment by supporting erosion and
pollution control activities at the microcatchment level, including
conservation forestry; commercial forestry development to take pressure off
the remaining native forests as suppliers of wood raw material; enforcement
of the State Law for Natural Resource Protection; improved protection and
management of parks and forest reserves; conservation training for state
employees, farmers and the general public; and studies and environmental
infrastructure for the Parana section of the Serra do Mar Conservation
Project (para. 3.20).
3.46     Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery.  The economic activities
generated by the proposed project are expected to provide the State of
Parana with additional fiscal revenues of about US$25.0 million annually
generated by the federal tax on the circulation of goods (ICM) that would
apply to the incremental marketable production and be retained by the State
Treasury. In addition, full operation and maintenance costs for rail
terminals incJuding amortization of investments would be charged to lime



- 23 -
consumers, subsidies for soil conservation subprojects would be gradually
phased out until project Year 7, and from Year 4 onwards project
beneficiaries would pay for the full cost of green manure seeds and
planting material for commercial forestry.
3.47     Economic Analysis.  The economic rate of return for the project
has been estimated at 242. It has been calculated for the directly
productive components (representing about 95% of project costs) with
readily quantified economic benefits. The economic costs include all
investment and operating costs estimated on a per hectare basis for the
main commodities, resulting from the adoption of improved land management
and soil conservation practices on 1.1 million ha (as a result of the
adoption rates defined in para. 3.42). The cost and benefit streams are
detailed in Annex 3. Sensitivity tests show that the rate is very
insensitive to variations in project costs and benefits. A rise of ZOZ in
project costs, or a fall of 20Z in project benefits would only reduce the
rate by two percentage points to 22Z.
Project Risks
3.48     The project's principal risk is that the interest among the farmer
community in controlling soil erosion could fail to spread as a result of:
(a) farmers' reluctance to take relatively expensive investment credit in
the current uncertain and inflationary economic environment;
(b) insufficient inter-institutional cooperation; and (c) shortfalls in
counterpart funding. The project has been designed to minimize these
risks. The consolidation under the SC Fund of an integrated incentive
program to assist microcatchment farmer associations in financing land
management, soil conservation and pollution control works, the substantial
reduction in transport costs of lime, and the overall participatory
philosophy of the project should encourage farmers to invest in soil
conservation and pollution control activities. The integration of most
project executing agencies under the authority of the Secretariat of
Agriculture and Supply, the setting up of a strong monitoring and
evaluation system, and intensive staff training should ensure efficient
project coordination. Finally, the state's relatively good financial
status and the support the project enjoys among state authorities should
help avoid shortfalls in counterpart funding.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01     During negotiations, the State Government provided assurances
that:
(a)   (i) the agreed Operational Manual for the SC Fund, including the
timetable for the phasing out of subsidies, would be
satisfactorily implemented and the provisions of the Manual would
not be changed without prior Bank approval; (ii) a satisfactory
Technical Manual for Land Management and Soil Conservation would
be presented to the Bank not later than July 31, 1989; (iii) the
performance of the SC Fund would be annually and jointly evaluated
by the AU, EMATER-PR and DEFIS and the conclusions of the
evaluation presented to the Bank not later than March 31 in the
following year, and (iv) as part of the mid-term evaluation, and



- 24 -
not later than July 31, 1993, the Bank and the AU would examine,
using specific criteria, the possibility of accelerating the
phasing out of the incentive program (para. 3.14);
(b)   before the start of any project-financed roadworks in a
municipality, it would enter, through SETR, into an  operating
agreement with the municipality concerned, requiring the
municipality to maintain such improved road sections and outlining
the administrative and financial arrangements for such maintenance
(para. 3.16);
(c)   prior to submitting the ICB documentation for Bank approva], GAfB
do PR would present proof of land ownership and satisfactory
detailed engineering designs for the five rail terminals to be
constructed during the project first year (para. 3.17);
(d)   (i) CAFE do PR would enter, not later than December 31, 1989,
into a transport contract with RFFSA defining annual tonnages to
be transported and transport rates; (ii) starting from the end of
1990, the AU would conduct an annual review of the operation of
each terminal to ensure that the financial performance of the
terminal and the price of lime at the delivery point continue iné
be satisfactory and would present to the Bank the conclusions of
its review not later than March 31 in each following year; and
(iii) during the project mid-term review, the AU and CAFE 0-, PR
would study the possibility of leasing or selling one of more
terminals to the private sector (para. 3.19);
(e)   it would provide the Bank not later than July 31, 1989 anid
June 30, 1990 with satisfactory terms of reference for t.he studcies
and inventories to be carried out in the Marumbi Protectod Area
and outside the Marumbi Area, respectively (para. 3.22);
(f) (i) it would maintain within SEAB a Project Administrative 11nit
(AU) with organization, structure and functions, including s
General Coordinator assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers, all acceptable to the Bank; (ii) quarterly progless
reports would be sent to the Bank not later than two months aflt-r
the end of each fiscal quarter; (iii) the baseline evaluatiin
would be sent to the Bank not later than July 31, 1989; an(d (i.r)
terms of reference would be presented to the Bank, prior to the
mid-term and ex-post evaluations and the reports would be sent to
the Bank not later than July 31, 1993, and March 31, 1997,
respectively (para. 3.24);
(g)   the annual budget proposal, including the physical target-.
budget, staffing, training and procurement programs for e(]h
executing agency, would be made available to the Banik b)          i
each year for review and comments (para. 3.28);
(h)   it would provide adequate counterpart funding for the effe X
and timely execution of all project components (para. 3.34);



- 25 -
(i)   the vehicles and computer necessary for project implementation
would be procured in a timely manner (para. 3.37); and
(j)   procurement procedures would be as specified in para. 3.35 to
3.39.
4.02     During negotiations, the Federal and State Governments provided
assurances that: (i) the Special Account and the project accounts would be
maintained and audited annually according to standards and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) terms of reference for the auditors would
include, inter alia, detailed procedures for the examination and
verification of the SOEs for the project accounts; and (iii) copies of the
two audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the
close of each fiscal year (para. 3.32).
4.03     Conditions of loan effectiveness would be the signing of ten
satisfactory agreements to be entered into between: (i) SEAB and IAPAR and
betw,!en SEAB, IAPAR, EMATER-PR, SUHREMA and UFPR for agricultural research
(para. 3.09); (ii) SEAB, EMATER-PR, OCEPAR and APEPA for rural extension
including the creation of a Coordinating Committee to agree on annual work
plans, extension targets, staffing plans, costs and source of funds (para.
3.10); (iii) SEAB and DER-PR, through SETR, for erosion control along rural
roads (para. 3.16); (iv) SEAB, CAFE do PR, RFFSA and DER-PR and between
SEAB and CAFE do PR for lime distribution facilities (para. 3.19); (v) SEAB
and ITCF for forestry development and environmental studies (para. 3.22);
(vi) SEAB, IPARDES. ITCF and EMATER-PR and between SEAB, through DEFIS, and
EMATER-PR for land use monitoring and control (para. 3.23); and (vii) SEAB
and IPARDES for project evaluation (para. 3.24).
4.04     A condition of disbursement for erosion control works along rural
roads would be the receipt by the Bank of a satisfactory draft model of a
contract for a set of typical erosion control works along a rural road
section, including detailed specifications (para. 3.16).
4.05     Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$63.0 million equivalent
with a term of 15 years, including a 5-year grace period.
December 8, 1988



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 12
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT I PROJECT - PARANA
PROJECT DETAILED DESCRIPTION
A. Technical Strategy Adopted to Overcome Land Degradation
1.       The most significant type of land degradation in ParanA is water-
induced soil erosion. Erosion starts when the bare soil is exposed to the
highly erosive summer rainfalls. The impact of rain detaches small soil
particles which later clog soil pores and seal the su!face (rainsplash
effect). Rain which cannot infiltrate is lost as surface runoff, carrying
away more soil particles and causing erosion damage, silting and flooding.
2.       To prevent water-induced soil erosion the technical strategy for
land management must achieve three objectives: (i) minimize rainsplash
effect by protecting the soil from surface sealing; (ii) minimize excess
runoff by maximizing the rate and amount of infiltration; and (iii)
minimize water runoff's ability to flow and form gullies by limiting its
accumulation and velocity.
3.       A series of land management and soil conservation techniques are
used to achieve these objectives. The choice of the most suitable
technique will depend on each particular situation. especially on the
intensiveness of capital and labor in each particular farming system. To
minimize both the rainsplash effect and the excess runoff, farmers would
rely on highly biomass-productive crops, cropping rotations whichl include
winter green manure crops, perennial crops annually intercropped, contour
stripcropping, reduced tillage and vegetative contours (particularly
Vetiveria zizanioides or Khus grass). Most of these practices generally
result in quick yield improvements and returns that attract farmets. To
achieve the third objective of the technical strategy -- minimizing water
runoff's ability to form gullies -- farmers would concentrate their efforts
on contour farming and the construction of mechanical structures, such as
stone walls, bunds and terraces, together with farm road and fence
realignment. Since the handling of excess runoff implies a collectively
agreed control plan, success of the strategy would depend on the
involvement of all land users within a microcatchment.
B. Project Area - Microcatchment Selection
4.       The technical strategy underlines the need to implement the
project on the basis of microcatchments. To simplify matters, lei(ore
prioritizing microcatchments, the twenty-four state homogeneous inicr.o
regions were regrouped into eight macroregions on the basis of five major
factors: natural resource base, land tenure, prevailing systems of
agricultural production, and intensiveness of capital, teclinology and
labor. The eight macroregions were then ranked from one to five on each of
the following criteria: (i) erosivity of summer rainfalls (Map IBRD
No. 21116); (ii) existing land use and corresponding lack of ground cover
during critical rainy periods; (iii) existing level of soil erosion;
(iv) degree of mechanization used in the production system; (v) existing
concentration of small farmers (less than 50 ha); (vi) number of



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 12
municipalities in the macroregion; and (vii) degree of awareness of soil
erosion problems among the farming community and previous level of response
to PMISA. Out of a possible total ranking of 35 points, each macroregion
was then ranked and given a relative priority. The number of
microcatchments per macroregion was then decided upon by considering two
criteria: the relative area of each macroregion in relation to the total
project area and the points awarded for the macroregion's relative priority
(Table 1.4).
5.       Finally, the actual choice of a microcatchment by the respective
Microcatchment Municipal Commission (CMMH) would depend on the following
factors: the concentration of small farmers, the relative importance of
food crops, the interest shown by farmers in investing in land management,
the importance of streams or rivers within the microcatchment and the
degree of soil erosion problems.
C. Detailed Features of Project Components
Adaptive Research
6.       The project agricultural research program would concentrate on:
development and close monitoring of soil conservation practices in sample
microcatchments and undertaking of field tests to correlate soil erosion
and productivity; fruit and forestry development, both for soil
conservation and agricultural development purposes; and field tests to
rationalize the use of farm inputs and develop plant species that adapt to
soils of low fertility. Therefore, the program would attempt to satisfy
the present research needs, monitor and evaluate the results to develop
future land management technology, and help train subject matter
specialists. The project would finance: (a) construction of a new ieseaLch
station at Umuarama; (b) 471 research trials; c) monitoring of five
representative microcatchments; and (d) the annual production of l00 ha of
basic seed for green manure crops. This would mean financing: civil works,
laboratory and agricultural equipment, furniture, as well as recurrent
costs for an additional 56 researchers, 223 mid-level technicians and 45
support staff, incluuing operation and maintenance for up to 158 vehicles
(para. 3.37).
7.       The research station at Umuarama is needed because the area lacks
a physical base for adaptive research.  It would be located in the
southwest of Macroregion No. 8, which has specific soil types, lower
temperatures and a better monthly rainfall distribution; it is also an ates
where small farms predomninate. Research at this 200 ha experimental
station would focus on pasture management, crop rotation, soil
conservation, nematodes control and coffee cultivation that are all
important to farmers in the region. Project research trials would
concentrate on crop nutrition (50 trials), alternative cultivation
practices (65 trials), small-scale mechanization (38 trials), weed and pest
control (100 trials); and especially on fruit (132 trials) and forest
husbandry (86 trials). The five microcatchments selected for researchi andl
close monitoring (Macroregions 4, 5, 6 and 8) would involve IAPAR and
EMATER-PR at the planning and analysis stage. EMATER-PR would also be
required to have two full-time extension officers following up on farm
developments within the microcatchments. A team (one Hydrologist assisted
by two Technicians) from Superintendency for Water Resources and the



- 28 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 12
Environment (SUREHMA) would monitor water flow and quality and the Federal
University of Parana (UFPR) would also be involved, focussed on the
correlation between soil degradation and crop productivity. The annual
production from 100 ha of basic seeds for green manure crops would be
necessary to help insure the availability of seed for green manure crops,
the lack of which has been a serious impediment to ground cover at crucial
times of the year.
8.       The implementation of this component would be IAPAR's
responsibiiity. Created in 1972, IAPAR is accountable tor most
productivity gains achieved in the 1970s by the Paranaense farmers on
export crops such as cotton, coffee, soybeans and food crops such as wheat,
maize, sorghum, edible beans and fruit crops. The institute currently
counts a total staff of 1,276 (i.e. 165 researchers, 854 technicians and
257 administrative staff) distributed among 17 research stations and 11
laboratories (Map IBRD No. 21116). Its budgeted annual operational plan
translates into semestrial technical progress reports and an overall annual
report. Its research results are regularly published and distributed
throughout the state, especially through EMATER-PR. Finally, IAPAR also
maintains very close contact with the EMBRAPA National Research Center for
Soybean (CNPSO) in Londrina, National Research Center for Forest (CNPF) in
Curitiba, and National Service for Soil Survey and Conservation (SNLCS) in
Rio de Janeiro, as well as with the State's Organization of Cooperatives
OCEPAR) that has its own research unit in Cascavel.
Rural Extension
9.       EMATER-PR is currently providing under PMISA extension services in
land management and soil conservation to some 24,700 farmers in 300
microcatchments that cover about 700,000 hectares; almost half this area
involves heavily mechanized farmland. Under the proposed project,
extension for land management and soil conservation would be provided to
some 165,500 farmers in 2,100 microcatchments (including the 300 that are
already being worked upon) covering 5,000,000 ha (i.e. 25Z of the state
area). The project would finance: (a) civil works in 75 locations for
8 regional EMATER-PR offices of 300 m2 each and 67 local EMATER-PR offices
(14 of 85 m2, 7 of 70 m2, and 46 of 60 ml each); each location wotuld either
be rehabilitated or constructed and properly equipped with office
equipment, field equipment and furniture: and (b) recurrent costs for
146 senior- and 187 mid-level incremental extension officers, including
operation and maintenance for up to 250 vehicles (para. 3.37).
10.      Technical assistance would be provided from three sources!
EMATER-PR's extension officers, extension staff belonging to producer
cooperatives and agriculturalists belonging to private consultant firms.
EMATER-PR's extension officers would be responsible for the initial
formation of the microcatchment association of farmers, elaborating land
management and soil conservation plans for each microcatchment, giving
technical assistance to farmer groups, and, on occasion, to individual
farmers. In addition, extension staff belonging to cooperatives and
private consultant firms would provide technical assistance to farmer
groups and individual farmers, respectively.
11.      EMATER-PR extension officers would work in teams (SCTs), each
consisting of a senior- and mid-level technician. In addition, one to two



- 29 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 12
subject matter specialists would be assigned to each of SEAB's 18 Regional
Offices (Map IBRD No. 21117). Each new microcatchment association would
get assistance from EMATER-PR for up to four years (three years only for
those currently attended under PHISA). Initially, EMATER-PR would work
with an average ratio of 2.5 microcatchments per team which would be
gradually increased to 3.5 at the end of the fourth year. About 52,000
farmers would receive technical assistance from EMATER-PR. An additional
62,500 farmers would receive technical assistar:ce from extension staff
belonging to the 63 existing producer cooperatives. Today some l1l
cooperative extension agents are involved in PMISA; 276 more are expected
to be involved by Year 7. The farmers-to-extensionist ratio would vary
from 200:1 to 300:1. Finally, there are 262 agricultural consulting firms
in Parana today with about 200 agriculturalists involved in PMISA. This
number is expected to gradually increase by about 480 in Year 7 to attend
some 51,000 individual farmers at the ratio of 150:1. A Coordinating
Committee with representatives from EMATER-PR, the State's Organization of
Cooperatives (OCEPAR) and the State's Association of Agricultural Planning
Enterprises (APEPA) would be created under the project to agree on annual
work plans at state, regional and municipal levels. Under the training
component, all extension staff (both public and private) would receive
substantial training.
Incentive Program for Land Management, Soil Conservation and Pollution
Control Works - The SC Fund
12.      Objectives.  The Soil Conservation (SC) Fund has been designed to
achieve three purposes: (i) encourage farmers to make an early start in the
application of modern land management technology; (ii) adjust the criteria
and limits for, and consolidate under one source of financing, the various
ongoing state-run incentive programs for soil conservation; and (iii) over
the project implementation period, gradually reduce the amount of subsidies
provided by the state for soil conservation. The amount of grant provided
under the SC Fund for different subprojects would vary in accordance with
the following factors: (i) the farming system being used; (ii) the farm
size; (iii) the year, during project implementation, when the subproject is
begun; and (iv) the type of subproject being financed. In addition,
farmers would also have to comply with absolute ceilings of grant beyond
which they would not be eligible for further assistance from the SC Fund.
All eligibility criteria, grant limits and absolute ceilings, as well as
models of contract for each type of subproject, would be detailed in an
agreed Operational Manual prepared by SEAB to guide and assist EMATER-PR
extension agents in monitoring the use of the SC Fund.
13.      Farming Systems.  For purposes of the SC Fund, four farming
systems have been identified: System A characterizes farms that use little
technology or capital; labor and a little animal traction are the main
sources of power on these hilly farmlands with gradient ranging from 15 to
302; System B typifies farms that use more technology and capital; animal
traction is the main source of power used on these farms located on slopes
of 10 to 202; System C characterizes farms that use high levels of
technology and capital as well as tractors as the principal source of power
on slightly undulated land (gradient inferior to 102); these farms are the
most likely ones to face critical erosion problems because of the intensive
use of mechanization; finally System D defines specific coffee producing
areas; these farms are generally mechanized but to a lesser degree than
farms under System C.



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 12
14.      Eligibility Criteria.  All beneficiaries (small -- up to 50 ha,
medium -- from 51 to 100 ha, and large-scale farmers -- over 100 ha) must
have agriculture as their sole source of income. In addition, the
following income criteria, measured as the gross value of production (GVP),
would have to be met for a small-scale farmer to classify as such:
System A:        GVP   < 400 MVR 1
System B or D: GVP   < 800 MVR.
System C:        GVP   <1000 MVR.
Finally, only small- and medium-scale farmers under System C would be
eligible.
15.      Phasing Out of the Incentive Program.  To encourage early adoption
of soil conservation techniques and to gradually reduce the overall level
of subsidy as the benefits of the program become more visible to the
farmers, the percentages of grant would be highest during the initial years
of project implementation and would then gradually decline.
16.      Types of Subproject.  Subprojects to be financed out of the SC
Fund of about US$25.1 million would be either investments collectively
undertaken by a group of farmers, or investments undertaken on an
individual farm. In these latter cases, the investments would often be
collectively carried out, for example, in the case of contour farming,
vegetative contours, bunding or terracing. Six types of subprojects would
be financially assisted: (i) three for farmer groups -- purchase of
specific farm equipment to undertake reduced tillage and green manuring --
and construction of cattle water supply systems and agro-chemicals mixing
points, both to avoid river pollution; and (ii) three for individual
farmers -- collective undertaking of land management practices (such as
vegetative contours using mainly Vetiver grass, stonewalls, bunding and
terracing), purchase of seeds for green manure seeds and purchase of
Bracatinga seeds and Eucalypts seedlings for commercial reforestation.
17.      Grant Limits for Collectively Owned Subprojects (US$6.7 million).
The following limits on grants for collectively owned subprojects (specific
farm equipment for US$1.9 million, cattle water supply for US$2.5 million
and agro-chemical mixing points for US$2.3 million) would vary according
to the percentage of small-scale farmers in the group applying for the
grant, and to the year of project implementation during which the
subproject is begun, as shown in the following table:
11 MVR (Maior Valor de Referencia) is an index currently worth about



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 12
S of Small-Scale Farmer.        Year of Project Imple-       X of the Total Cost
eithin the Group Applying    mentation during which          of the Subproject
for a C&Iat                     the Subproject is Begun    to be Financed by
the SC Fund
100                  First,, Second, Third,                 70
Fourth. Fifth,                        50
SiXth, Sewenth                        30
7r,-99                cirst, Second. Third,                 50
Fourth, Fifth,                        30
S;ith, Seuenth                        15
50-75                 First, Second, Third,                 30
Fourth, Fifth,                        20
Siath, Seventh                        10
18.             Grant Limits for Individually Owned Subprojects (US$18.4 million).
The limits on grants for individually owned subprojects would vary in each
case, according to the type of subproject to be financed, as follows:
(a) Grant Limit on Land Management Practices (US$15.4 million). The limits
on grants that help finance land management and soil conservation practices
(US$.3 million for System A, US$5.8 million for System B, US$8.6 million
for System C, and US$.7 million for system D) would vary according to the
farming system being used, the year of project implementation during which
the subproject is begun and, in some cases, the farm size. In addition, a
ceiling would be placed in the case of the most typical land management
practices used under each farming system.
Farming         Ceiling for the    Year of Project    1% of Total Coat
System Used       Main Land Munage-  Implementation          of the Subprcject
sent Practices       during which %theg   to.be financed by
used                 Subproject Is begun the SC Fund
A           S OTN12 /hs (*tone  let, 2nd, 3rd                   SO
:.ll and usgs-       4th, 5th,                     30
tstire contoura)   bth, 7th,                       20
a           10 OTN/ha (stone
walla, end rag
contours)
40 OTN/ha            1st, 2nd, 3rd                 50
(reg. contours,    4th, 5th                        30
terrace building   4th, 5th                        20
with animal          6th, 7th
traction)
[           30 OTN/hs -
(Coffee Fares)   (vegetatine
contours, flood
control tanks)
C            200 OTN/h. (usg.   Small-scale farmers
contours. terrece  1st, 2nd, 3rd,                  SO
building with        4th, 5th                      30
tractor traction)  6th, 7th                         15
Medium-scale
let, 2nd, 3rd,                30
4th, 5th                       15
6th, 7th                       10
2/  OTN: National Treasury Bcnd currently worth about US$7-5



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 12
(b) Grant Limits on the Provision of Seeds for Green Manure Crops (US$.7
million). The SC Fund would provide enough seeds (not cash) for planting up
to 2 hectares of green manure crops. Seeds would be provided to all farmers
regardless of the size of their farming operation. Seeds would be provided
oa a once-only basis and farmers would repay the SC Fund in kind.
(c) Grant Limit on the Provision of Seeds and Seedlings for Reforestation
(US$2.3 million). The SC Fund would provide enough seeds, (Bracatinga) or
seedlings (Eucalypts) for planting up to 5 ha of commercial forest,
regardless of farm size. Seed and seedlings would be provided on a once-only
basis. To gradually spread the idea of paying for planting material for
small-scale commercial forestry and encourage private production of this
material, the present subsidy would be gradually eliminated over the
project's first three years. During the project first year farmers would pay
252 of the costs of production, during the Project Year 2, 50?, and during
Project Year 3, 752; they would be paying the full cost of production by the
fourth year of the project.
19.      Absolute Ceilings of Grant Per Farmer.  In addition to the above
grant limits, an absolute ceiling of subsidies per farmer would also be
established. This ceiling would apply to all farmers who would receive any
form of grant from the SC Fund. The ceiling would be applied cumulatively
over the years; once a farmer reaches the ceiling, he would not be eligible
for any more assistance from the SC Fund. The ceiling would apply to the
farm and differ according to the farming system being used as follows:
For farms under System A the limit would be  75 OTN/farm;
For farms under System B the limit would be 110 OTN/farm;
For farms under System C the limit would be 205 OTN/farm;
For farms under System C (with shared water supply systems for cattle)
the limit would be 280 OTN/farm;
For farms under System D the limit would be  75 OTN/farm.
Erosion Control Works along Rural Roads.
20.      This component would include slight roadworks along a low-traffic
network of 28,300 km of gravelled or earth-surfaced rural roads on public
land or farm roads (with attached public right of use) which is under under
the responsibility of the municipalities. The various types of erosion
control works which would be integral parts of the microcatchment
management plans and, as the SC Fund, directly monitored by the AU, are
outlined in the the following paragraphs. Contracts would be of small size
(about US$20,000) and scattered. Wherever possible, they would be grouped
together in lots of about US$250,000.
21.      Road Realignment with Regravelling (US$10.7 million).  The work
would consist mostly of earth movement (about 1 cubic meter/running meter
of road) with the combined objectives of reducing the slope of the
shoulders, filling in side gullies and improving road drainage. On
selected sections of the road, especially on the steepest slopes, a bed of
about 15 cm of gravel would be added and compacted. Following the results
of a sample survey carried out in 30 microcatchments already attended by
PHISA, an estimated 1,578 km would be realigned and regravelled at an
estimated cost of US$4,990 per km.



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 12
22.      Other Types of Erosion Control Works (US$24.4 million).  Based on
the same sample survey, various types of erosion control works would be
carried out on a total of 12,154 km. These works would include slight road
realignment in some sections, and the construction of road and terrace
junctions and flood control tanks.
23.      Most earth-surfaced road realignment would not require
regravelling or having much work done on the shoulders because the roads
are narrow (3,50 m to 5,00 m wide) and have a very low traffic count.
About 11,890 km of small sections of 50 to 100 m each would be realigned in
these conditions at a cost of US$1,380 per km. In some cases (264 km),
although regravelling would not be warranted, additiona]. earthmoving on the
shoulders would be required bringing the unit cost to US$4,480 per km.
24.      The junctions of field terraces with the rural roads are highly
erodible potential locations. An earth bund would be constructed across
the road to join each terrace's ends on both sides of the road.  Its
construction would require about 2,5 cubic meters of earth movement. In
basalt areas, the bunds would direct water run-off back onto the adjacent
fields; some 784 km of road are estimated to requ'.re bunding in basalt
areas on the basis of 28 bunds per km of road costing about US$105 per km.
In sandstone areas, an average of 18 bunds per km would be needed costing
about US$65 per km; in these areas about 264 km of road would require
bunding which would direct water run-off to flood control tanks.
25.      Flood control tanks are 2mx2mx3m holes dug into the ground on road
sides. Their purpose is to allow quick permeation of the excess water run-
off and avoid the forming of gullies. In sandstone areas, an average of 27
tanks per km of road would be required costing about US$960 per km.
26.      Supervision (US$1.2 million).  Although the rural road network
object of the above erosion control works do not come under DER-PR's
domain, to ensure that the works are properly executed, DER-PR would be
responsible to the A.U. for the procurement of works and their supervision.
Therefore, the project would also finance recurrent costs for up to seven
supervision teams, each comprising a civil engineer and two technicians,
including operation and maintenance for up to 21 vehicles (para. 3.37).
Lime Distribution Facilities
27.      Background.  Liming has been proven to be highly beneficial to
most Parana's soils; it usually increases vegetative cover and crop
productivity and helps improve top-soil structure. At present, lime is
transported from the quarries in the eastern part of the state on the
return trip of both trucks and railcars that transport grain from the major
producing areas in the west to the port of ParanAgua. However, many trucks
and railcars return empty to the grain producing areas (a trip of about 600
km). This is because loading lime can be very time consuming, and during
the grain harvest both truckers and the Federal Rail Network Company
(RFFSA) find it more profitable to return empty to pick up more grain
rather than wait to load lime. Transportation cost is high (often higher
than the cost of lime itself.



- 34 -
ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 12
28.      Description.  The objective of this component is to stimulate the
use of lime by farmers by both reducing the cost of transport and ensuring
the availability of lime in the cropping areas through the provision of
lime storage facilities. The project would finance the construction of a
main loading terminal at Araucaria, with a yearly capacity of 1.3 million
tons, as well as the construction of four unloading terminals at Apucarana,
Cianorte, Guarapuava, and Uniao da Vit6ria with yearly capacities ranging
from 150,000 to 330,000 tons (Map IBRD No. 21118). The main loading
term.inal at Araucaria would be located on the main railroad that joins the
interior of Parana with Paranagua. The locations of the unloading
terminals were chosen on the basis of the exiFtence of the railway, the
potential for the regional consumption of lime and the interest shown by
the agricultural cooperatives of the region in having such a terminal. An
existing, fifth terminal originally built to unload clinquer at Maringa,
will be turned over to the municipal authorities in November 1988 a.dd used
for unloading lime. A proper rate-of-return analysis was done for the
following terminals: Araucaria, Apucarana, Guarapuava, and Uniao da
Vit6ria; there was not enough specific data on Cianorte to do a proper
rate-of-return analysis, but because it is further from the lime quarries
than Apucarana (and therefore has a lower cost of transport per km) it was
also favorably considered. Uniao da Vit6ria, if taken by itself, has a
lower rate-of-return than the opportunity cost of capital. However, the
construction of a terminal in this region is important because it will helt}
promote the use of lime that has been low in the past, and also because it
is the main poLnt of entry of lime for the grain-producing regions of the
state of Santa Catarina. Price for lime under the project would vary
according to the distance and ig expected to bp tp tn 2flt cheaper then the
current market in some regions.
29.      The State's Agricultural Company for Economic Promotion (CAFE do
PR) would be responsible for the installation and initial operation of the
terminals. Construction of the loading terminal and the four unloading
terminals estimated at US$5.9 million (US$1.0 million for civil works and
US$4.9 million for equipment) would be done through one ICB contract.
Before preparing bidding documents, CAFE do PR would secure land titles on
selected sites, and ensure the preparation of satisfactory detailed
engineering designs by contracting them out to specialized firms. The
State Road Construction and Maintenance Agency (DER-PR) wotild assist in
preparing the necessary embankments for the construction of the rail tracks
from the mainline to the terminals as well as the access roads to the
terminals. The Federal Rail Network Company (RFFSA) would be responsible
for laying down the rail tracks from the mainline to the lime terminals.
The supervision of the construction of the terminals would be done by the
State Department of Civil Works Construction and Maintenance (DECOM).
30.      CAFE do PR would also be responsible for the operation of the
terminals. A small administrative unit would be set up at headquarters to
take charge of accounting, purchases, payments, pricing, contracting
services, purchasing lime and coordinating operations between terminals.
Each terminal would have a small personnel structure to unload and load
lime, maintain the terminals and sell lime.
31.      CAFE do PR expects to be able to sell lime at a cheaper price than
the average market because of the lower transport cost that RFFSA would be
able to charge given the volume of lime to be transported for CAFE do PR.



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
Page 10 of 12
However, should a cooperative prefer to purchase the lime itself from a
quatry, the cooperative could also choose to use RFFSA's railroad and CAFE
do PR's terminals and pay a service charge to each respective entity for
the rail transport and the use of the terminals.
32.      To insure that CAFE do PR would be able to start purchasing lime
immediately after completion of the construction work capitals for the
purchase of 25,000 tons of lime (US$135,000) have been included in its 1989
budget. CAFE do PR would price its lime and its loading and unloading
services to fully cover all the related costs, including those of the
administrative unit at headquarters. An annual review of the financial
results (balance sheet and profit-and-loss accounts) of each terminal would
be undertaken by the AU to make sure that the parameters used to calculate
the cost of CAFE do PR's loading and unloading service and to price lime
are correct. During the project's mid-term review the possibility of
leasing or selling one or more terminals to the private sector would be
analyzed.
Forestry Development and Environmental Studies
33.      This component is aimed at: developing conservation and commercial
forestry in the microcatchments to prevent soil erosion and to take
pressure off the remaining native forests as suppliers of wood raw
material; improving state parks and forest reserves protection and
,IILL..ai-L,ent, and starting conservation activities for the Parana section of
the Serra do Mar.
34.      The conservation and commercial forestry subcomponent (US$8.9
million) would produce (a) about 33 million seedlings of native species
such as (Araucaria, Ocotea, Cordia, Aspidoderma spp) for planting on public
land either at the microcatchment level (14,500 ha) or in the state forest
reserves (2,200 ha); and (b) about 163 million seedlings of pine and
eucalypts species for the planting of about 54,000 ha farmland (for timber,
housing poles and fuelwood), about 19 ton seeds of Mimosa Scabrella
(Bracatinga) for the planting of 23,000 ha farmland (for fuelwood), and
about 23,500 seedlings of Ilex Paraguaiensis (erva mate or Paraguay tea)
for planting of 12,000 ha farmland (local market and export). Today most
commercial seedlings, except those produced by large reforestation
companies, are produced either in the 26 nurseries of the State's Land
Cartography and Forest Institute (ITCF) or in the 130 existing municipal
nurseries. Under PMISA, most seedlings have been distributed by ITCF free
of charge. The project would attempt to encourage the private sector to
produce seedlings by phasing out over three years the subsidies on seeds
and seedlings for commercial forestry and thereby gradually withdrawing the
monopoly of supply from the public nurseries (para. 18 (c)). The project
would finance: construction and equipment of a seed laboratory;
rehabilitation of infrastructure for five ITCF nurseries including housing
for three technicians; and recurrent costs for an additional 30 foresters,
6 mid-level technicians and 20 support staff, including operation and
maintenance for up to 61 vehicles (para. 3.35). The task of both foresters
and technicians would be to supervise the production of seedlings by ITCF
and municipal nurseries, provide technical assistance to private nurseries,
:ollect, select and store quality seeds and distribute them to the
*roduction units.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Page 11 of 12
35.      The parks and forest reserves subcomponent (US$3.1 million) would
strengthen ITCF's capacity in protecting and managing, through the
preparation and implementation of proper management plans, the 25 existing
state parks and forest reserves (Map IBRD No. 21118) and provide them with
recreational infrastructure, where compatible with conservation, for the
environmental training of the public. Under the project, seven new
management plans would be prepared and the area of four of these units
(Lauraceas, Vila Velha, Monge, and Jacarezinho) is expected to expand by a
total of 13,500 ha to about 25,000 ha. The project would provide civil
works such as park administration centers (12), housing for guards (28),
kiosks (112), restrooms (26), fire-control towers (5), and fencing (195
km). In the park of Caxambu and the forest reserves of Maria Flora and
Amapora, a fauna reserve and breeding center would be established to
protect animal species that are in danger of becoming extinct. In
addition, the recurrent costs attached to the financing of three foresters,
nix mid-level technicians, 13 forest guards and 2 administrative staff have
also been included in the project cost, as well as the operation and
maintenance costs for up to 10 vehicles (para. 3.37).
36.      The conservation activities for the Serra do Mar subcomponent
(US$1.2 million) would assist ITCF in improving its knowledge of the
natural resources of the Parana section of the Serra do Mar, initiating
protection and management activities for the Marumbi Protected Area in
accordance with the agreed management plan, and increasing the population's
ecological awareness. Various inventories, both inside (6,700 ha) and
outside (17,300 ha) the Marumbi Protected Area would be carried out as well
as the basic mappi..g (16;20,000) of 100,000 ha outside the Marumbi area.
The project would also finance the construction of one
training/administrative center and three field control posts, 25 km of
fencing and recurrent costs tied to the hiring of four environmentalists,
six mid-level technicians and six support staff, including operation and
maintenance for up to 5 vehicles (para. 3.37).
Land Use Monitoring and Control
37.      Land Use Monitoring.   A land use monitoring system would be
established by ITCF using remote sensing together with field data to
continuously update information on land use and management. This would be
done to: identify new areas that have soil etosion problems and monitor
progress in those areas where soil conservation measures have been taken;
improve agricultural planning and zoning (especially for forestry and
irrigation); obtain better socio-economic information; and monitor the
subject project by closely studying five watersheds.
38.      ITCF would be responsible for data collection from remote sensing,
as well as the field information collected from technicians from ITCF,
EMATER-PR and IAPAR and general data research. The State's Institute for
Economic and Social Development (IPARDES) would be responsible for the
drafting of new thematic maps at scale ranging from 1:100,000 to 1:500,000,
covering topics such as contours, forests, geomorphology, soils (actual and
potential use), erosion, drainage, socio-economical characteristics and
land use recommendations. ITCF and IPARDES staff are currently being
trained in the use of remote sensing and in mapping, respectively, under a
FAO project GCP/INT/458/FRA. Additional training would be provided under
the guidance of the National Institute for Space Research (INPE).



- 37 -
ANNEX I
Page 12 of 12
39.      Five watersheds (between 20,000 - 40,000 ha each) would be chosen
from macroregions 4, 5, 6, and 8 to monitor the project's progress; work
would be divided into two stages.  During the first two years basic
information would be collected mainly through farm surveys to help with the
analysis of production systems and marketing surveys. The teams
undertaking the farm surveys and the data analysis would consist of staff
from EMATER-PR, ITCF, and IAPAR. A team would then monitor the evolution
of the collected data during the rest of project implementation. The
project would finance imported electronic equipment, 18 man-months of
national consultant services, training and recurrent costs for 14
specialists and one mid-level technician, Including operation and
maintenance for 15 vehicles (para. 3.37).
40.      Land Use Control.  A land use inspection service that already
exists within the SEAB's Sanitary Control Department (DEFIS) would be
strengthened to undertake three tasks. First, it would ensure that the
State Law for Natural Resources Protection (No. 8014/84 of December 14,
L984) what was regulated under Decree No. 6120/85 is abided by farmers.
3econd, it would inspe-t the farms that had benefitted from the SC Fund to
nake sure that the funds were used for the purpose that they were granted
for. Third, it would inspect private and public nurseries that produce and
sell seedlings, both for fruit and forest trees, to make sure that the
seedlings were healthy and of the right variety.
41.      DEFIS has already fined farmers (after several warnings) for not
undertaking specific soil conservation measures in critical locations. The
Law for Natural Resource Protection is usually applied to those farmers
that are in deliberate contempt of the extension service and have not taken
the soil conservation measures that they were asked to. Similarly, it has
been agreed that the Operational Manual for the SC Fund would stimulate the
penalties to be applied to farmers who do not use the funds for the
specific purpose for which they were granted. In the case of nurseries
that are found to have seedlings of poor quality or of the wrong variety,
the nursery would be ordered to burn the seedlings. The project would
finance some office equipment and recurrent costs for up to 23 inspectors
including operation and maintenance for up to 23 vehicles (para. 3.37)
D. Project Costs
See Tables 1.5 and 1.6.
E. Disbursements
See Tables 1.7 and 1.8.
F.  Financing Plan
See Table 1.9.
G. Project Physical Targets and Implementation Schedule
See Table 1.10.



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1.1
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT I PROJECT - 7ARANA
Evolution of State's GDP Real Rate of Growth (2)
S E C T 0 R                       State        Share of Agriculture
Year    Agriculture        Industry      Commerce       GDP          in State GDP (2)
1970        --               --            --          --                  25.6
1971        58.7              1.4           9.8       25.0                 31.5
1972        (4.7)            20.8          16.6         8.4                29.6
1973       (19.7)            10.7           8.4        :2.2)               27.4
1974        41.5              5.7          19.8       23.0                 29.9
1975         7.4             22.9          11.2        13.3                28.9
1976       (13.8)            23.0           9.5         4.8                22.3
1977        12.6             34.2          22.9        23.9                25.7
1978        (8.3)            19.1            7.2        6.0               '19.6
1979         8.6             10.9           6.7         9.1                19.2
1980        19.1             23.3          26.3       22.9                 19.4
1981        11.7              4.0           4.7         6.4                20.5
1982        (8.3)           (10.7)          (8.8)      (9.5)               17.0
1983         6.7             (0.3)          2.0         2.2                17.8
1984        (2.4)            (2.0)          1.4        (1.0)               19.8
1985        27.4              8.4          14.1        15.7                20.8
1986       (19.4)             7.8          14.4         2.1                18.1
Source:  IPARDES - 1988



mL
LIND HIM         I DffT      A
E,trS. f Let  1  T"nj
(1970-19b)
FAI 13UV RAlD
_ so 19 h..OS'IP                           2D0  .45. he5                                  k                       1-i 5.      .                          lh low h.9 "    -*.             T O T A-L
lb.    s        A,"       6        Ob.   U        Ar_       6         no. *            A. *  _b.                   6        Ar. *              lb.    s         Ar.   S         No.               A"r       6
( OX)                    ( OCO~~~~~~~00)                      ( ODO)                               C eD)                               C CAO)                            ( 000)
1922
Ltpd.r        190.146   83   1t.73 S    18        77,404    25    2,837.8   2D       20.291     7     1,419.4   12       18.881    S    8,912.0   112        1.025    0      2.89.66   21    32.7M2   100    12,161.5  100
Rft.or         64,880   94      392 9   61        3,215     5        94.2   i3          6n      1        40.6    a    *     6      A        91.6   14           18    0         27.3     4      66.741   100       64b1.   100
Sh.r.crp.r  116451   95       611 0    7s       5,740     5        189.6   1i         818     0        84.6     a         22      0 ∞      48.6     4           a    0         16.1    2      122.937   100     1,067.1  100
0Dc.4"         43.144   6s      267 2   36   0 .240    11           188.6   21          922  U          6.0      9                 I       171.1   23           41    0         90.8   12       60.048   100   7 w a   100
lbb S.r.d          --  --        ----     --        ---    --                                                                                                                                            ---       n
T." l       422,293  2    32Wi4        m      gl- li           2Z171 1* 1;_i                 i      I-sm      11      IN         A     4 L        2U       LU        2     2LMJ       n      Ian 1b           1485L ∞
L.od_         168.392   61    1,721.6   12       74.910    25      2321.6   16      20.106      7     1,618.9   11      2D0.0      b    b.87J7     W87       1.473     1    8.582 4   25    30S.785   1O0    14,67 .9  100
Root.r         37.782   a7      255.4   36        3,813     9       114.6   1s         9g0    2          6U.1    9         m       2        n2. 1   26          8O     0        84.4   12       43.340   100       702.8  100
Sbr-er- rr   88,494  93        406 3    63        8.726     6       106.6   17          82      1       36.6     6         22    0          60.0    9           14     0        8 5      6      63.044   100       64.2  100
O-W.t          36.0b0   91     210 2    46       2.756      7        61.0   16    87            1       39.9     0                 I        61.4   19           17    0         33 3     7      41.952   100       452.4  100
lbs S. r ..d   ---- -  --    ------    --         -----     -        ----    --         ---    _         ----    _          ---    _        ----                -- __           --- _              101   ---       n O',  --
7T.-1        Slk     22 D 2LA    12            S.207 92  2L               19       21i              1.72   11         22  0      i  1-7           1        LEL       _     Sl lM.l   2       464.2,2   lL     la.m       Am
L n.r         160.636   61    1.637 6    11      70,425   24     2,167.2   18       22.209     6      1.875.8   11      21.218     7    8.a05.6   87         1.427     1    S.064 2    27      296.232  100    14,660.W    1 00
R nt- r        42.384   84     285 4   29         8,569    11       170.0   17        1,462    J       103.4   Is        1.122     2       266.9   21           6      0       160 6    16      60,542   100       98  5   200
Sh- vre,   64.962   92         432 6    52       4.163     6        133.5   16         769      I       68.0     7         466     1       100.1   12           22    0        106 3    13      70.624   100       027 7   100
ODC.P_t'       42.228   92     219 8    37        3,173    7        04.0   1l           706    2        49 7    6          497     1       117.0   20           84    0        117 7   20       46.640   100       898 2   100
Sor-o o..-      2,191   64       14 9     7         533   16         16.6    8          16o    6        18.0     6         264    6         74.9   84           48     I       101 9    46       3.216   IOD       221.3  100
"at 5 r-Od    -----  --          ----     -         ---   --        ----    -           ---    -         ----    -         ---              ----    --          --     -       -----    --         375   ---        ,      --
70t 1       3S22      LI   2.50D.       1      84.28S    1      2.101J    18       285        a     17e1.4  1Q        2U4        i     L Z        J6       LIEl      2       .Aa      8 4-440 7 2  4S7.29  IOD    17.495,8   1
18t2LIm5 (. )    (21)           (23)               (8)               (6)                IS                16                67                44                46               63               (16)                20
* )l- t0r1 f,6D-'.
Sourc. Ise8-ls70-loeo-loss 



*0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 9*
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a 0                     lq 0   * m'          0 O c r  o w  o         ezcooc:   Xcl a  co   o oo'C   ozj TXo   c G;'OI      CT         CT        oTi 61  OT  el cs s   Z-B;o
* s ^- s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  -                                   ot@ *  q  de  o      0*  cc11  e  tte'                v  t 0               W'  So li *t'         4 -s 
'3961                                                                                                    out                                                    oi.                     tw7 ;6
'''*∞'1  r    _       -.           0m*t       *      @ 0m                 30            LOt8                                90        ~ *      -.w        r      .                  -. D
_|m -16' r...                                      w M 5, I                                                                                                     0 1 6                                             ~ g
01        U -        * _ t  9!     3*                8* ~                 _ 1 0   e eg * 3.0 1 h   *66    03                0     .                             -3                  0"  *      (ssm-8'a
w  a X  _ * 0b'T z @ e * UE'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~at                                                     el *a ''' '<-
1                     at   t 9   i- i                  an t         *19                 8                 8 _* a              19 8'                             03*                  03A to  a-90
el*o   .I                                                t o                o a-at                          to ,  t                           U.?               a g *
30    of              -'           91          _ ,                        38w*           08               8l*       *        88               68                96                   11   ~
s0,       i             o          a Tt              S i                  0 ts                o             t Jt  3      _                                      elm                 * a)    3
on I     a            w 1            I                 o                 t V           oBul                 *                 i n            at'it J!                                                 11114111_
o-o 5     it1' t   is               mt               i te't      :        8_ U     n6                                       0> tM 0as                             tOt _31111
610       -                        US!               £ 98                 93            I                 I                   8               -                   -* -- V                        *11 
30       030         980          83'?3t                        G            W                                                                                                                          et0 "- 8)
M 0       AI         h_            Bi-               061                  013                             083                                                   3* 8_ t-  _
iw 0      68 0        Ito          on                                     5  3          898               81*                                                   t 9                     A31111
W I       A'          30           M'!               e                    I 33's          0-                   _M                                                                                 (**) w
9930      WI I        961 1        OST8c             0on's081                             3               11,1111           0008               Wit              @1':                 Woo'o        T!'" ofen
ai        m          a Ttta                                            (to am.    (We               (o 1             (a                        W6                                  _
/gat    /out   ~ mm                 Vo.-A             pif9*                  0           0SS9L           p69*                                   13
d"V'*5WIW5            61  F   19     ow,fi i Mm59  tI    l1..I..wq   VU T.M  P ov.11'U  el R   I
miii. -~     IIIU    onW



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1.3
Page 2 of 2
!'                                      K:  | | '   
3          - -          4            ii!i
-.      3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
Sjfj - 



Page 1
EOiL
4L1D It4~( I P∞aJEcT 4
Sol..d N4icroc_tchuont Distribsteon e ar Hwni,Dmlit- Mlicrorion anfd  bcrarroion and S.lotion Ctit rim
R          UCR WDO                       gUUCIPALTIt5                  .J-    3 ID R0CATCO485TS    ,PRIORrT RATING (FROM 7 Tp 35)
Sorage                list.
Tot"l Lan  No. o  Total Fnm    Fa-             Ar,e    No. of                                                         O.-.l I
1=~~~~e              H4   A - ro  fhal E6D_-  Ams (h-l Si"  hla tI,  fh-l    nf_            Cir;eri-a-             al 21      LU 1      fi   M    Total  (g
1   269   L.tor I         6    569,447    4.730   369,911       78    28   70,370   1,626
P. ron....
270   Alto Ribeirs  2    266,72S    4,343    256.965       59    17   33.074   1,176
SSr0OTAL 1         8 8.17!i   9.0      626876       L      _Z103.444  2L3    1   1   1   2    1   1   10                                         8
2   273   C. de PontO    5   1,206,845    9,384  1.016.171     109    B0   188,477   5.685
Cro..
274    C. de         3    433,956    4,840    450,069      98    S0   68,406   2.015
Joguori-ivo
SJBTOAL 2   eJ  1.640801   14 194  1L466.240       =     Up   256                                          2   2   3   2    1   2    13          7                          1
4%)
S   268   C.ritib.,    14    "4S.509   16,52    432.500        26    68  162.356   8,630
272   C. d- LoPb    5    476,593    7,585    373.151       49    38   91,506   2,590
290   C. ts          7   1.615.654   24.945  1,659,602     67   130  309.240   7.220
Gusrspuasc
291   Nadio Ig.u-cC  10  1.111,486   11.835   658.929      73    89  213,390  5.310
5U8TOTAL 3   _a  4.049.242   61297 3.324102         L    S25  776.5C   3a750                              2   2   2   2   3   2    16            6
4   271   Alto Rio        4    15i.730   5.462    103,060       19    17   35.422   1.295
Negro
275   S. Not4.u      3    251.780   6.590    227.817       a5    24   56.902   2,825
do Sul
276   Colonial       7    739.465   19,007    595.417      31    69  167.119   .6525
de Irsti
277   Alto Iv..      S    719,035   16,622    590.640      36    67  162.503   2.660
278   NV. d- wV.-  18    619,390   19.220    660.353       34    58  138,479  3.240
coal a. Braz
287   P.tangs        4    637.455   20,094    602.113      30    60  144,065   4.105
SUBTOTAL 4       312 8          9   2 77940                    704 490 2∞9                            3   3   3   3   3   3   2   20             4
5   289   Sudo.sto                                                                                                                                                             O
Pt,aneons    26   1.171.763  57,411  1,065,634       19   155  348.589  15.550                                                                                      p.
SUBTOTAL 5  2;   1.171.z    57.411  10U ,84         L2   155  348.589  AI.ANI                        5   4   3   4   5   2    4   27             2                 0
V..,h4



Table 1 4
Pa.g 2
Selected Hicroectchment Distribut6on  .r Pgnic.ealit- Miceorsio  ad  bcrmon   a" SlecCion Cnn.eri.
SUM        MtIa:RE0Im                       IcnipALTTI35                      SB- T80 NIC aROI22CL                         PmI13T' RATTPI f(     7 TO 35S
A.rarg E..
TotelI Land NO. af TotaI Farm   Fare            Ar.a    No. Of                                                            ;. ,.1 1
lb     No       Na              Ar ufLha) F h  _     Arafh h i Siz hal tbu      (ha)   Et= - _     CSL/ Cri ter ia"                   ,     i   ii £Z1  IL        ;"n
a    279   N.V. do        20     7.625   14.616   6e_.s9           47    106   297.813   5.570
Jacarzi;nho
260    Algodorai      7     223.977    6.715    202.071      30      38    79,3s3   2.6s3
d. As"ai
231    N.N. d        29   1,022.973   19.680    974.s9s      So    149   358.043   7.975
LAndr rin
232   N.H. do        16    s63.729    9.NM4   34,.307         36     86   126,460  4.585
ori nga
256    Caow  Mourlo  19   1.166.013   32."44  1.098,076       34    172   417.105  L2.365
2es    E.O.          30   2.21.629   70.229  1,915.869       27   S30   795,578  40.090
Paranuamaa
WTOAL 6  =21  5L79S946  IL738  5L214157                         2 ,0 L2Z74  7ZC0                         4    5    4   5    3    5    s    31         1
7   284    N.N. de        17     745,977   29,710    705,531      24      65   202,158   6,00
Apucarana
SST0TAL 7  IZ    745,77   92 71o    705 531                 ,    202As                                   3    4    3    4    4   2    4    24         3
a   253    N.N. de        29   1,034,047   16,670  1.016,921      61      97   234.293   3.645
263   NM.N de        25   1,438.64S   38.761  1.296.660      as    138   325,130  11,145
WIT0TAL 8   _   2 42L=    iL4t        24 1L a        42    a        9 42   1  9                          4    3    5   2    2   3    1   20           4
TOTAL        _l ,19          *       41  17L495-801  Az 2m 100           IQ" 9  l  5       -                                  -   -  
Souret     1805-SEA8
j/ Rat,ng from 1 to 5 for each of the f ol lming no .e.n critoria 
(1) Rainfall aroai.ity
(2)   Eaiatino lend use and corresponding lack of aoil co.er during int.na- aumar rainfalla
(3)   Eaiting dfj,r- of aoil tructur. degradation
(4)   E.iating le,rel of Tillag. (mechanization)
(5)   Exiating concantrat.on of *=ll  fursers (lose then 50 ha)                                                                                                               tl) 1- t1
(6)  Nu bl r af municipalities in th. NIcro*/icronagin                                                                                                                                  X
(7)   Lu.. I of far_, ruponu to PlSA                                                                                                                                           O
lN)



BRAZ IL
LAND MANAGEMENT I PROJECT - PARANA
Aninual Cost Phasing of Project: Activities
(Cz$ million)
EROS ION                                                                                           Physics I
SOIL         CONTROL          IlRE                      LAND USE                                              Contingencies
ADAPTIVE    RURAL    CONSERVATION  ALONG RURAL  DISIITIUTION   FORESTRY    MNIlTORING                PROJECT-------
RE SEARCH  EXTENSION       FUND           ROADS       FACILITIES   DEVELOPNIEUIAND CONTROL  ADNINISTRATION  TRAINING   Total                I   Amont
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CliVi MORNS AND BUILDINGS
I  BUILDINGS                                 306.9       253.5--                                       162.0          357.1                                      167 4   1.256 8   15 0   188.5
2  SOLt CONSERVATION NORKS-                             -              2.20? 2--- -                                                -                                  -   2.207 2    15 0   331.1
3  RURAL ROAD WORKIS                              ---                                4,905.5----                                                                          4.905 5    15 0   135 8
Sitb Total CIVIL NORMS AND BUILDINGS             306 9       263.5        2.207 2        4.905 5           162 0         357 I                                       167 4   8.369 6    IO 01.255 4
6 EQUIPMENT AND FURNITURE
I  EQUIPMENT. AN  FUNTRE52-7.--07--87-6-                                                                                              6                 42        56       .08          0    15
SIt  o  EQUIPMENT AND FURNITURE                532 3        77.0         1.047 9                         6587 8         86 1           46 0               4 2       54 6   2.705 6    5 0   135 3
C  INVENTORIES. MAPPING AND STUDIES                  -           -               -              --                       124 8              --                           -      124 8    5 0       6 2
O  LAND DEVELOPMENT                                                         533 5               --                       7054               -- 1.239 0    00                                       0 0
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
I  EXPATRIATE CONSUL TANIS-----                                                                                        11 4--                                     57 0       68 4    5 0       3 4
2  LOCAL CONSULTANTS                              .-.---                                                                              10 3                          I2        it 5    5 0      0 6
3  FELLOWSHIPS.                                               ------                                                                              -               79 8       79 8    5 0       4.0
4  STUDY TOURS                                                                                                                                                     a  .5       8 6    50       0*4
Subt-otal TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                       .                                         -i  4                                     10.3                        146.5      168 2    5 0       6 4 
Total INVESTMENI COSIS                              839 2       340 4        3, 788. 6      4. 905. 5       1. 019. 8     1. 284. 9         56. 2              4.2      368 6  12. 607 4   It. I1. 405.4 4
1I  RECURRENT COSTSI
A. SALARIES AND SOCIAL BENEfITS              1,501.6    2.61? 2                           137.7               -         506.41        433 3             395 9               5.5920    0 0         00
8  TRAVEL ALLIjANCES                             53 2        65 3                          30 7                         152 0          142 0             41 0                  504. 1    0 0      0 0
C.  OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                   148. I      688 2               -          29. 1              -         185 6          )I5. 1             10 I       16 2   T. 192 4    0 0      0.0
0. CONTRACTED SERVICES                         203.?7       123 7               --                    -                   4. 6         26. 6            2069            -     5654    00         00
E. CONSUMPTION MATERIAL                        210 7         73 9               ----                                                   20 3              20 2       25.6      351 0    00        0 0
F  COURSES. SEMINARS AND FIELD TOURS                -           -               -----                                                                        -     468 9      468 9    0 0       00
Total RECURRENT COSTS                            2.117 3    3.588 3                 -         19I  5              -         8465           7137 3           674 0      510 9   6.673 8    0 0         0 0
Total BASELINE COSTS                               2. 956. 5    3,926 7        3, 788. 6     5. 103 0        1.019 8       2. 133.4         793 5             676.2      879 4  21.281 2    6. 61 1405. 4
Physical Contingencies                             72 7        43 4          383 5          735.8            67 2          64 7            2 8               0 2       35 2   1. 4054    00         00
Price Contingencies                               452_0       732 7          602 1        1, 060.4          54.8          321 0          135. 1            119 3      113 5   3.5909    5. 9   2135
Total PRJECT COSTS                                 3.481 T    4.704 8         4.774 2        6. 899.3       I. 141.68      2.519. 1         931.-4            797 7   1.028 1  26. 277 5    6 2I 1618 9
Taxes                                             296 5       152.0          764 0          736.6          294.1          252 5           36.3             43 0        76 8   2.653 8    7 9   2102
Foreign Exchange                                  333 5       205. 2         995.0        1,340.2          322.8          215 2           49. 7            32 8      252 3   3.746 7    9 2   344 8
Sspiafer 14. 1988 20. 50
CD 



BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT I PROJECT - PARANA
Summary Account by Project Component
(Cz$ Million)
Totals IncludinM Cmtindriuuti                                   lotals Inclrt1in CoU_itL.*0
(CZH Killio)                                                       U  '0
89/9   90/91  91t92  92/93 n   994  94/    95/96  Total       9/9    "0      91/m    92/93   93/94   94         n/6   Total
r======= =========                 st--..............  a . ... --.. m,mug.- .-immarem, ........m.........".."""."."'.'.m..... ...  * .
A. AOWTIVE RCSEARCH                    660.9  776.5  400.1  394.9P  407.6  4B7.8  423.2 3.48).)  3,473.4  4,066.9  2,106.1  2073.5 2,16.3 2199.2  2P227.6 19.321.8
P. RIURAL EXTENSION                    380.8  580.2  677.9  730.0  769.1  781.2  735-7 47014.8  2,o04.4 3J053.8  3,567.3 3,42.1  404.0  49111.3 4W135.2 240762.0
C. SOIL CONSERVATION FUND              607.0  935.2 1,096.7  754.3  734.4  352.6  243.9 4P774.2  391".9 4.922.2  5P772.2  3,99.3  413.6  1.3.6  1i28339 259127.1
D. EROSION ECNIROL ALONG RURAL ROADS   459.9  786.7  983.9 19367.6 1,422.3 1.106.8   M.1 6.8F9.3  20420.6  4,140.4  5.178.6 7.197.8 7.45.7  5.85.2 4t0%3.6 36.3)2.1
E. LINE DISTRISTUTION FACILITIES       981.1  160.8      -       -      -      -       - 1141.9   5163.5   84-.1         -       -                            6009.
F. FORESTRI DEVIELOPI(N1               522.1  547.2  270.0  297.5  316.9  301.8  263.6 2,519.1  2747.9 2.3-9.B  19421.0 1,565.9  1,667.3  1.30.3  19357.6  139258.3
6. LAUD USE  O1II70RING AND CONIROL    154.9  109.0  118.7  130.6  137.9  138.6  141.8  91t.4    U15,1   sn,5   624.9   687.1   725.1   729.5   746.2  4,902.1
N. PRDUECT ADMIINISTRATION            107.7   91.6  133.2   99.1  103.1  107.2  155.6   797.7    56.6   4g2.3   701.0   521.7   5.2.5   564.2   B20.1  491".4
1. TRAINING                           245.6  278.8  143.6  120.8  116.7   73.7   4B.9  1023.1  IM.4 2,46.s   7.0   635.7   U4.2    37.8   257.5  5.411.1
Total FRO.ECT cosrs                   44119.9 4.265.9 3,824.1 3,894.8 4.058.0 3.279.6 2435.1 26,217.5 21s40.7 2.452*.3 2127.1 20,M4. 21t3.  17,261.1 14,921.7 131,302.5
======= =======        .:.tCS     fl".. ....=== =,=elmn                      an"              amasa  s _  _  _mn _  _  .    ...
m
I> 
0*|
0'



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1.7
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT I PROJECT - PARANA
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(USS million)
Bank         Quarter          Disbursement             Cumulative Disbursement             Balance
Fiscal Year        Ending         During Quarter           Amount           S Total           of Loans
1989       March 31, 1989           -
June 30, 1989           4.0 I/               4.0 I/             6               59.0
1990       Sept. 30, 1989           2.0                  8.0                                57.0
Dec. 31, 1989           2.1                  8.1               13               64.9
March 31, 1990          2.2                 10.3                                62.7
June 30, 1990           2.3                 12.6               20               60.4
1991       Sept. 80, 1990           2.4                 16.0                                47.9
Dec. 31, 1990           2.4                 17.4               28               46.8
March 31, 1993          2.4                 19.8                                43.2
June 30, 1991           2.4                 22.2              a3                40.8
1992       Sept. 30, 1991           2.4                 24.6                                38.4
Dec. al, 1991           2.4                 27.0               43               36.9
March 31, 1992          2.3                 29.3                                33.7
June 30, 1992           2.3                 31.6               s0               31.4
1993       Sept. 30, 1992           2.2                 33.8                                29.2
Dec. 31, 1992           2.2                 38.0               57               27.0
March 31, 1993          2.1                 38.1                                24.9
June 30, 1993           2.1                 40.2               64               22.8
1994       Sept. 30, 1993           2.1                 42.3                                20.7
Dec. 31, 1993           2.1                 44.4               70               18.6
March 31, 1994          2.0                 46.4                                16.6
June 30, 1994           2.0                 48.4               77               14.6
1996       Sept. 30, 1994           2.0                 60.4                                12.6
Dec. 31, 1994           1.8                 62.2               83               10.8
March 31, 1996          1.8                 64.0                                 9.0
June 30, 1995           1.8                 66.8               89                7.2
1996       Sept. 30, 1995           1.8                 57.6                                 6.4
Dec. 31, 1995           1.6                 59.2               94                3.8
March 31, 1996          1.4                 60.6                                 2.4
June 30, 1996           1.4                 62.0               98                1.0
1997       Sept. 30, 1996           1.0                 63.0              100
1/ Initial deposit of Us23.0 million into the Special Account.



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1.8
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT I PROJECT - PARANA
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Category                    Item and 2 of Expenditures                 Total
(Net of Taxes)                      Amount
(US$ mill.)
I         Adaptive Research.
1002 of Imported Laboratory Equipment:                   1.1
502 of all other expenditures up to an aggregate
disbursement under this category of US$2.3
million; 302 thereafter until the aggregate
reaches US$3.9 million; and 102 thereafter:          4.3
II         Rural Extension.
502 of expenditures up to an aggregate
disbursement under this category of US$3.6
million; 302 thereafter until the aggregate
reaches US$6.1 million; and 102 thereafter:          6.7
III         Incentive Program for Land Management, Soil
Conservation und Pollution Control Works.
80.  of expenditures:                                   15.3
IV         Erosion Control Works along Rural Roads.
502 of expenditures:                                    14.5
V         Lime Distribution Facilities.
802 of expenditures:                                     3.2
VI         Forestry Development and Environmental Studies
502 of expendituress                                     5.4
VII         Land Use Monitoring and Control.
1002 of Imported Electronic Equipments                     .2
50Z of all other expenditures:                           2.0
VIII          Project Administration, Monitoring and
Evaluation.
502 of expenditure up to an aggregate
disbursement under this category of
USS.6 million; 30Z thereafter until the
aggregate reaches US$1.0 million; and 102
thereafter:                                           1.2
IX         Training.
1002 of Foreign Consultancy and Overseas
Training:                                              .8
502 of all other expenditures:                           2.0
X         Unallocated                                               6.3
T O T A  L                                              63.0



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1.9
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT I PROJECT - PARANA
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Amounts to be Financed by
State Gov't      State Gov't      Total
+ IBRD            only
A.  Adaptive Research                   18.3              5.1          23.4
B.  Rural Extension (Public)            24.8              2.7          27.5
C.  Incentive Program for Land
Management, Soil C.nservation
and Pollution Control Works.       25.1               -            25.1
D.  Erosion Control Works Along
ta-,' Roads                        36;3                            36.3
E.  Lime Distribution Facilities         6.0              -             6.0
F.  Forestry Development                13.3              1.8          15.1
- Commercial and Conservation
Forestry                          9.0               1.4          10.4
- State Parks and Reserves
Protection and Management         3.1                .3           3.4
- Studies and Start-up
Activities for the Serra
do Mar                            1.2                .1           1.3
G.  Land Use Monitoring and Control   4.9                 1.1           6.0
- Land Use Mapping/Monitoring       2.0                .9           2.9
- SCF and Land Use Control          2.9                .2           3.1
H.  Project Administration,
Monitoring and Evaluation            4.2               .1           4.3
I.  Training                             5.4              -             5.4
T 0 T A L                         138.31/            10.8         149.1
1, Including about US$13.9 million of taxes and duties not financed by
IBRD.



- 49 -
NNE  I
Table 1.10
Page 1 of 3
8RAZIL
LAl KANA4e4ENT I PROJECT - PARANA
Project Pi sical Taroets and Implementation Schedule
Proiect/Comsonentu                              Vnit       0      Yr. 1   Yr. 2   Yr3   Yr. 4   Yr.          Yr_6    Yr. 7       Total
(1988)
Proiset Aroo
-Mii crocatchoonts attended
Now                                        un.        --     135      225     270      360      360     270       180       1800
Cumulative                                 un.       300     43S      660     930    1290    1650    1920        2100       2100
Adagtive Reearch
-Microcatchment. under IAPAR
monitoring (cum.)                              un.        --        5       5                         5        5 S                 S
-Trials on crop nutr ition, alternative
cultivation practices, sechnization
and wsed and pest control                      un.        55       59     103       43      30       18       --        --       253
-Trial- on fruit crops husbandry                Un.        17       61      38       20       a        5       --       --        132
-Trial. on foreut husbandry                     un.         8       10      40       16       10      10       --       --         06
-Groan  sanure seeds                            ha.        10       90     100      100     100      100      100      100         --
Rural Extension
-Total Farmers attended
Now                                   1000 un.        --    10.      17.7    21.3    28.4    28.3    21.3        13.2      140.9
Cumulative                            1000 un.     24.7    35.4    53.1    74.4   102.8   131.1   152.4    165.5           165.5
a) ER
Farmers attended (cum.)               1000 un.      7.8    11.1    16.7    23.4    32.4    41.2    47.9          52.0       52.0
Ineremntal Extensionita (cum.)             un.        --      --      141     233      273     307      333       333        333
b) Coperati ves
Farmers attended (cum.)                'OOOun.       9.3    13.5    20.0    28.1    38.8    49.5    57.5         62.5       62.5
Incremental Entensionieto (cum.)           un.       __       _        20      84      118      190     242       276        276
c) aric. Consulting Firms
Farmers attended (cum.)               1000 un.       7 6    10.9    16.4    22.9    31 6    40.d    47 0         51.1       51.1
Ineremental Agriculturists (cum.)          un.        -i _             18     106      220     338      426       480        480



- 50 -
TablI 1.10
Pogo 2 of 3
Pro eCt1ComgPnont                               j;it       0      Yr. I   YLr.2   Yr 3   Yr. _    Yr 5   yr  6    Yr. 7          Tojjl
(1988)
SC Fund
a) Col.lctively owned subproiegts
Specific form equipment                    not        --      23       37       45      60       60       45       30        300
Cattle Water Suoply (7 farmers)            un.        --      33       55       66      88       88      66        44        440
Agro-chemical mixing points                un          _     199      331     397      529      529     397       265       2647
b) Individually Owned Subnroiect
Soil Conservation Works
(Systems A, 8, C, D)                  1000 ha        --    63.8   107.7   131.9   177.3   180.9   142.0    101.6         905.2
Oreen Manure Swede                         ton        --     520      240     256       --                --       --       1016
Planting Material for Com. Forstry
- Bracatinga                           1000 ha        --     1.7      2.9     3.5      4.7      4.7     3.5       2.3       23.3
- Eucalypts. pine                      1000 ha        --     4.1      6.8     8.1    10.9    10.9       8.1       5.4       54.3
Erosion Control Alone Rural Road
Realignment with Regranvlling               Km        __     118      198      236     316      316      236      158       1578
Realignment without Rorav"llino                      v         _                *_   __       ZD          eg       we        254
Recurfacing with Slight Realignment         Km        __     892    1485    1784    2378    2378   17784         1189      11890
Junction Sunda                              Ka        __      78      130     158      210      210     158       104       1048
Flood Control Tanks                         Km        --      20       32       40      53       53      40        26        264
Lime Distribution Facilities
Loading Terminal                           un.        --        I      --       --      --       --       --       --          1
Lime Loaded                                ton        --     400      650    1000    1295    1295    1295        1295       7230
Unloading Terminal                         un.        --       4       --       --      --       --       --       --          4
Lime Distributed                           ton        --     320      520     800    1025    1025    1025        1025       5740
Forestry Development and Environmntal Studits
a) Consersation and Comercivl Foreostrv
Native Species Seedlings               105 un.        _      2.3      4.0      5.0     6.5      6.6     5.2       3.2       32.8
Eucelypts/Pine Seedlings               108 un.        --    12.2    20.4    24.5    32.6    32.6    24.5         16.2      183.0
Ervr  Mate Seedlings                   10t  un.       _      1.8      3.0     3.5      4.7      4.7     3.5       2.3       23.5
Bracatinga Seeds                           ton        --     1.4      2.4     2.8      3.8      3.8     2.8       2.0         19
Reforestation in Parke and Reserves,    ha.           --      --      165      325     325      435     465       470       2165
Conservation Reforestation                 he.        --    1100    1800    2200    2900    2900    2200         1400      14500
b) Parks and Forsat ROseryve
Management Plan                            un.        _         2       5       --      --       --       --       --          7
Fencing                                     Km        --      80       80       35      -        --       --       --        195
Fire Control Tower                         un.        --       5       --       --      --                --       --          5
Fauna Reserve/Breoding Center              un.        _         1       2       --3



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1.10
Peg. 3 of 3
proiect/Comaonpnt                                          0     YrYUnit  I   r,_2   Yr.3   Yr. 4   Yr S   Yr  6    Yr  7        Tot*1l
( I988)
C) Serra do Hair
-Marumbi Area:
Cadastral Survey                         h          --    5000   10000                                                  15000
Fencing                                   km       --       2£       --      --       --       --      --        --        25
Inventories                               ha       _      6700      6- --             --      --       --        --      8700
-Outside Morumbi Area:
Inventor,*o                             ha.        --       --   17300                --      --                 --     17300
Mapping (1:20,000)                        he        --   34000   66000       -_       __       __      __        __    100000
Land UVe Monitorino and Control
a) Lnd Use Monitorinj;
Remote S.nsing Equipment                     set        __        1      --       --       --      __       __       _ 
Thematic Maps:
Selected Waterahed (1:50,000)              un.        __      _         S        S      --       __       __       __         10
Various Maps (1:100,000)                   un.         1       4        1        1       1        2      --        __         11
Socio-Economic Map                         un.         -      __       __       __       1       --      __        __          1
Land Use RecomAendetion Map                un.        __      __       __       __      __       __      _          1          1
Semple Watershed Monitoring and
Evaluation (cum.)                          un.        _        2        5        5       5        5       5         6         32
b) Land Use Control
Field Supervisions:
SC Fund                                    un.        --    1300    2100    2600    3400    3400    2600         1700      17100
State Low Enforcement                      un.        --    3300    3300    3300    3300    3300    3300         3300     23100
Nurseri.e                                  un.        --    1200    1200    1200    1200    1300    1300         J300       8700
Administration. Monitoring and Evaluation
Project Evaluation                             un.         1       --                1      --       --       --         1         3
Traininr
-Operational Manuel for SC Fund            un.         1      --       --      --       --       --      --        --          I
-Technical Manual                          un.        --               --      --       --       __       _        __          1
-30-day course for SMS- and
Supervisors                Course a Trainee         --    2.50                                                            MO --  -  --  --  2.50
-5-day specific course for
Extensioniato              Course   Trainee         --   125   4225   3Sx28   28.25   22x25           --        --    142%25
-5-day SC course for
Extensionisto              Course x Trainee        __   29t30    5x26    7x27    7126    8.27    528          3.29     64.28
-Foreign Cons. Servicee             man-month         --       3        5       5        5        4       4         4         30
-Fel lowshipe                              un.        _        6        6       6        6        6       5        __         35
-Study Tour Abroad                         un.        --       3        3       3        3        3      --        --         15
-2-Day Seminar for SMSe        Sam. a Trainee         --    lXS0    1X50    lXS0    lXS0    1XS0    lX0          1XS0      7X50
-3-Day Seminar for all
Project Technicians          Sem. * Trainee         -    14.62    2.65    3.64    3.61    4.54    3.47         2144     31.50
-3-Day Seminur for SC Tech.  Soo  a Trinee            -       --   1.300   1.300   1.300   1.300   1.300    1.300          6X300
-1-Day Field Tour                        Event        -      10       190      190     190      190     100       188       1328
-Half-day Field Demonstration            Event        --     868      444     532      709      709     532       330       4124
-2-hour Field Meetings                   Event        -_    1735      520      768     728      864     560       332       5S08



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT I PROJECT - PARANA
PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING
A. Institutional Aspects
State Level
1.       A Deliberative Commission for PARANA RURAL, chaired by the
Governor and including all State Secretaries involved in the program has
overall responsibility for program policy, budgets, institutional
coordination and the integration of the proposed project with PARANA RURAL
and other state programs. In addition, the Microcatchment State Commission
(CEMH) created under PMISA, chaired by the SEAB Secretary, and consisting
of representatives from major project executing agencies, banks,
cooperatives and farmers, is responsible for project policy, planning,
budgeting and institutional coordination (Chart 2.1). The AU General
Coordinator is the executive secretary of the CEMH which would meet monthly
to plan, supervise and evaluate the implementation of the annuaL work
plans.
2.       The Project Administrative Unit created within SEAB (State Decree
No. 4056 dated 10/27/88) is responsible for: (a) reviewing and
consolidating, prior to August 30 each year, annual operating plans drafted
by the executing agencies and approved by the CEMH; (Table 2.1);
(b) supervising project performance and advising the PARANA RURAL
Deliberative Commission on institutional or technical difficulties;
(c) monitoring progress and preparing reimbursement requests; and
(d) administering the SC Fund, erosion control worlks along rural roads,
land use monitoring and con.rol and rural credit.
3.       The AU has reinforced its administrative structure to adjust to
the project needs (Chart 2.2). The General Coordinator is assisted by five
specialized supervisors, a Technical Coordinator, an Administrative
Coordinator and a Financial Controller. Project physical and financial
data would be monthly processed through services provided by the State Data
Processing Company (CELEPAR).
Regional and Municipal Level
4.       At the regional and municipal level, the project would be
implemented through the existing SEAB Regional Offices (NRs) which would
liaise with EMATER-PR, ITCF and CAFE do PR regional offices and monitor
their respective performance under the project. At the municipal level,
coordination of project executing entities (private, municipal and
governmental) as w.ell as the approval of microcatchment land management and
soil conservation plans and the processing of requests for support under
the SC Fund would be the responsibility of the CMMHs.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
B. Training
5.       All training programs would be centrally coordinated and
administered by the AU within SEAB to ensure that project strategy is
properly implemented by all executing agencies. Four types of training
would be given under the project:
(a)   Induction Training.  The objective would be to give an initial
orientation through Z- or 3-day seminars to project supervisors
and staff, respectively, as to the basic project concepts,
component expectations and the participatory philosophy in the
implementation of project activities. It would be given by the
AU, IAPAR and EMATER-PR.
(b)   Training of Trainees.  IAPAR in cooperation with EMATER-PR and
with the assistance of foreign consultants would train trainers
and subject matter specialists through 30-day local courses
complemented with practical training study tours abroad.
(c)   Project-Related TraininR.  The objective would be to provide
technical training for project staff through 5-day courses and
seminars given on technical matters related to project activities.
Responsibility for assessing the needs and undertaking the
execution of the training program would remain with IAPAR, EMATER-
PR a.nd ITCF, hb'.' the Au would have to aive its clearance before
releasing project funds.
(d)   Farmer Trainin.  Microcatchment land users would receive training
from EMATER-PR through induction meetings, field demonstrations
(dias de campo) and one-day field tours.
6.       Yearly training programs have been designed so as to achieve
identified impacts to be used as evaluation indicators.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
7.       Monitoring and evaluation arrangements have been designed to
provide accurate and timely information for project management and to allow
proper annual planning. The AU would receive from executing agencies
monthly reports on key physical and financial indicators. In addition to
ongoing evaluation carried out by the AU, project three-tier evaluation
activities (baseline, mid-term and ex-post evaluation) would be the
responsibility of IPARDES. The Bank has been provided with satisfactory
Terms of Reference for the baseline evaluation.



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2.1
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT I PROJECT - PARANA
List of Executing and Colloborating Agencies
Project Activity                   Main Executing                    Main Collaborating
Agency                             Agencies
Adaotive Research
-Trials on Research Stotions           IAPAR
-Observation Units                     TAPAR                           EMATER-PR, UFPR, SUREHlMA
Rural Extension
-Microcatchment Managent Plans         EMATER-PR
-Extension in Land Management          EMATER-PR                       OCEPAR, APEPA
Incentive Program for Land
Managment, Soil Conservation
and Pollution Control Works
-Selection of Individual               Farmers and                     EMATER SCTs, Municipal
and Collective Subprojects            Former Groups                   Comiasions (CMNH)
-Financing of Subprojects              AU/SEAB                         Farmrs and Farmer Aaons./Oroups
-Execution of Subprojects              NR*, Municipal                  Private Contractors, CAFE do PR,
Commissiona (CMiH)              Farmers and Farmr Assns./Groups
and EMATER-PR
Er3sion Control Works Along
Rural Roads
-Implentation                          AU/SEAB                         DER-PR, Priv. Contractors,
CAFE do PR, Municipalities
-Control and Supervision               DER-PR
-Maintenance                           Municipalities                  DER-PR
Lime Distribution Facilities
-Instollation                          CAFE do PR                      Priv. Contractors, RFFSA, DER-PR
-Operation                             CAFE do PR                      Cooperatives, RFFSA
Forestry Dev.-Environmental Studies
-Conmer,ia  and Conservation
Forestry                              ITCF                            EMATER-PR, OCEPAR, Farmers and
Former Groups
-State Parks and Reserves              ITCF
-Serra do Mar Studies and
Environmental Infrastructure          ITCF                            Consultants
Land Use Monitoring and Control
-Land Use Monitoring System            UA/SEAB                         ITCF
-Data Base and Mapping System          UA/SEAB                         IPARDES, EMATER-PR
-SCF and Land Use Control              DEFJS                           EMATER-PR
Project Administration, Monitoring and
Evo l uati on
-Administration and Monitoring         AU/SEAB                         SEAB's NRa, CELEPAR
-Eva lust ion                          IPARDES
Training                                 AU/SEAB                         EMATER-PR, IAPAR, ITCF, OCEPAR,
APEPA, DEFIS, EMBRAPA/SNLCS,
UFPR, SURENHA, Consultants



Chr  -1
Pr-W   mmd Pw   .Ch Cea         m i m   _          Chr
STA1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAAg" DELmAIV L.MSS
Ert;en  L;  pn   _                                            15 ~~~~~~~~~~~~Scr.tm.y   f Agr cultu,r-
- OEAT ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~E -Sc*-    EPSprs,
- i ; ; ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Mmes  SEL_   SEtX t                                          EoOX.
< } ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~SSU  and S erPAU Scrot-  i.
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ((SEAS
[ 3                        |  Contr I I bir ctor t   |~~~~~~~tat Clw4,o
(DO)Di
6eeic D >"rt_nt                   Operstion Deport_nt                  Control D-Part n
(DBtAL)                       _     _   Rl)                              aXF  )--      _
Regiona     Ofie                                                                          - --    -- - ----8
-- - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - ---  --.  -     -    -   ---  -   - - - - - - - - - - - ---  -- - - - - - - - - ---    --- - - - -- - - - -
r  -----------------    -------- ---------l----------- ------
| EHAER | ;r_recictio.,l rnc O.p_____,t_
I~                   Z~
R.wm  F        I Ofi.    (SU)                                                                                  Gdi'n31c
cacpg~~~~xT1vs - LOCal Oifc. (Sc,-)                                                              ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~n.e,psiHM               L
r~~~~- ,(r9*4)_,
t  l  le4SCT            !~~~~~-2-10- - ---on ----
P'oj-et Authority Lim
- - - - - - - -  Projet Fwctiol Line



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
Chart 2.2
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGFMENT I PROJECT - PARANA
Project Administration Unit (AU) Organizational Chart
GENERAL
COORDINATOR
FINANCIAL
CONTROLLER
- Project Accounts
- Contracts and
SOEs Control
- Audits
S~~                  ~     ~      ~     ~~~ I_______ I
TECHNICAL               SUPERVISORS               ADMINISTRATIVE
COORDINATOR                                          COORDINATOR
- Physical Planning        - SC Fund                - Budgeting
- Technical Monitoring    - Rural Roads             - Adm. & Financial
- Procurement              - Land Use Monitor-          Monitoring
Monitoring               ing and Control        - Procurement
- On-going Evaluation      - Training                   Monitoring
- Rural Credit          - On-going Evaluation



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
1LAND MANAGEMENT I PROJECT - PARANA
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS
A. Financial Benefits
1.       Seven rainfed farm models representative of the macroregions with
major concentration of microcatchments (Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8) were
analyzed to test the impact of the improved land management and soil
conservation practices on the yield of major crop and livestock products
and farm incomes (Table 3.1). Six of the models are small-scale farms:
three with maize and beans as major crops under farming System A or B; one
full mechanized (System C) witi' winter wheat and summer soybean cropping;
and two with grain and coffee cr,pping. The last model represents large-
scale beef cattle farm. The illustrative models take into account the
current declining trend in productivity for the main crops under Systems B,
C and D (estimated at 1O0 over ten years in the "without project"
situation) and the assumption that all recommended on-farm investments
would be made and all improved and management practices would be gradually
adopted by the farmers (sigmoid increase in productivity over 4 to 5 years
in the "with project" situation). The financial rates of return before
financing and subsidies (with the only exception of r;vdlel 3 fzr which tho
proposed increased in cropping intensity would result in a 61% rate of
return) range from 16 to 39Z. The projected increases in crop yields under
the various farming systems range from 20 to 25% above the current levels
for wheat and soybean to 35.5% for coffee, 30 to 502 for maize and 50% for
beans as shown in Table 3.2. The increased productivity would result from
the adoption of land management and soil conservation practices adapted to
each farming system as follows: (a) System A, combination of low-cost soil
conservation practices with gradual introduction of improved seeds,
improved crop rotation and husbandry and timely harvesting; (b) System B,
combination of vegetative contours and some terracing with contour farming,
liming, introduction of winter green manure in crop rotation, some increase
in cropping intensity (consortium maize/bean combined with second short-
cycle maize cropping), increased use of certified seeds and improved crop
maintenance; (c) System C, combination of bunding and terracing with
contour stripcropping, contour farming, reduced tillage, deep ripping,
improved crop rotation including winter green manuring and use of agro-
chemicals; and (d) System D, combination of vegetative contours and some
other erosion control works with liming and legume intercropping, improved
coffee husbandry and phyto-sanitary controls. In the specific case of the
beef cattle farm model, pasture carrying capacity is expected to increase
by 33Z over ten years (from 1.2 AU/ha to 1.6 AU/ha) and beef production by
50% through the combination of improved 10-year maize/pasture rotation
including all practices recommended for maize cropping under System B with
increased area planted to forage, appropriate cattle water supply and
fencing, and improved animal husbandry. Net annual farm benefits from the
main crops which currently vary between US$825 and US$10,080 would
increase, at full development (Year 10), to a range of US$895 to US$10,220
in constant terms, instead of declining without the project to a range of
US$825 to US$8,450.



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
2.       Within the 5 million ha farmland covered by the 2,100
microcatchments of the project area, about 1.1 million ha (35% of area
under annual crops, 20X of area under perennial crops, 15% of area under
pasture, and 122 of area under forest regrowth and fallow) are expected to
fully benefit from improved land management and soil conservation
practices, diversification to fruit crops (7,000 ha citrus and 4,000 ha
stone fruits) and erva mate (12,000 ha), and commercial reforestation
(23,000 ha Bracatinga and 54,000 ha eucalypts and pine) as shown in
Table 3.2. These developments valued on a per hectare of commodity basis
are expected to lead at full development (Year 10-13) to an annual
incremental output value of US$210 million -- 752 of this amount would come
from increased productivity of the five major crops (maize, soybean wheat,
edible beans and coffee), 232 from diversification into fruit trees, erva
mate and commercial reforestation, and 2X from improved pasture. These
expanded agricultural activities would also create new on-farm employment
opportunities equivalent to about 15,000 man-years annually.
B. Economic Analysis and Sensitivity
3.       The overall rate of return of the project is estimated to be 24%
over a 20-year period (Table 3.3). The cost stream for the economic
analysis is based on five elements: (a) all on-farm investment and
operating costs estimated on a per hectare of commodity basis for the
deveiopment ot i.i mi.iion tarmiand resulting trom the adoption rates
outlined in para. 2; (b) all project costs except those related to the soil
conservation fund (already included in on-farm investments), state parks
and forest reserves, and the conservation activities for the Serra do Mar;
(c) vehicles and electronic equipment required by the project; (d)
estimated incremental costs for private extension (cooperatives and
agricultural consulting firms) and maintenance of rural road sections
improved under the project; and (e) recurrent costs on a specific declining
basis for each component from Year 8 to Year 20 (with the following overall
averages: 61.5% of Year 7 costs from Year 8 to 10, 41.5% from Year 11 to
13, 32.5% from Year 14 to 17, and 132 from Year 18 to 20).
4.       Incremental net benefits were estimated on a per hectare of
commodity basis from the 1.1 million ha farmland expected to fully benefit
from improved land management and soil conservation practices, crop
diversification and commercial reforestation in the 2,100 microcatchments
under the project.
5.       Ecoaomic prices (Table 3.4) at the farmgate were derived from the
main traded goods, including soybean, wheat, maize, coffee and basic
chemical fertilizers (urea and potassium chloride), taking into account
international trade prices, freight, insurance, port handling, marketing
and processing costs with price trends projected according to those
estimated by the Bank's International Commodity Markets Division at 1988
constant prices. Farm labor was valued at financial price. All otner
outputs and inputs were adjusted by the standard conversion factor (0.83)
to account for domestic price distortions.



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
6.       Sensitivity tests (Table 3.5) showed that the rate of return is
very insensitive to either possible variations in costs and benefits or lag
in achieving project results. If benefits fall by 20Z, or project costs
rise by 20Z, the rate of return would still be 22Z, well above the
estimated 122 opportunity cost of capital. A lag of three years in
achieving project results would reduce the rate of return by only 5
percentage points to 192.



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3.1
L    W4MSE  I oJr     - PIJ4
Oirmem rlatlce of Illutalv  Form HopdgE  Test"  In Flnemclsl A?leuel
lkcrurzSion      Form Site        Min.Cop               Crooend Area (bh)                 Form Not Benefits (rS)           F
Hpdol U       Noof    3         l Of          Production Slvotes                                          IN      VP a        In.ri         (over 20 yro.)
mmji   w                                                           li    w   Curren   Yr. 1   Ful           ( I  D v  (Yr.O or 10)  I
1      3      325    15   15.0    15.0   HMaze A Been* l            5.0   -      -      -    2205      2005    2670           665              21.3
maibl  B                2.5   -      2.5   -
Been* B                2.0   -      2.0   -
"aize A Beene/"ize   -        -      5.0 
Soil Cone. B              -            9.6
2      4      295    14   10.0    10.0   HMaze A                    2.7   -      2.7   -      825       825      895           70              16.4
Bean* a                2.3   -      2.3   -
Soil Cons. A A 8          -            5.0
3      5      15i     8   17.0    17.0    Maze B                    9.5   -      8.0   -    2025       1790    3160          1370              61.0
Bean* B                2.5   -       -     -
Green Manure/
An. Crops              -     -      -     4.0
Maize A seane/Maize   -       -      4.0   -
Soil Cone. B              -           12.0
4      6      850    41   30.0    30.0    Soybean C                22.0   -    18.0   -    5805        2785    5350          2565              16.7
Wheat C                 -    15.0   -    18.0
Maize C                 2.0   -      6.0   -
Green Manure/
An. Crops            -      -     -      6.0
Soil Cons. C              -            24.0
5      7       85     4   25.0    25.0    Maie 8                    5.0   -      S.0   -    3660       3260    4155           895              27.8
Bean. B                5.0   -      5.0   -
Green Manure/
An. Crop             -      -     -      5.0
Coffee B                  2.0           2.0
Green Manure/
Coffee                   -            2.0
Soil Con.    A D           -           12.0
6.     8)                   15       15      Maize 8                 1.3   -      1.3   -   10080       8450   10220          1770              39.4
Boone B                 1.0   -      1.0   -
Oreen Manure/
An. Crop             -      -            1.3
235    11                     Coffee                    9.0          9.0
Soil Con. B A D            -           11.3
6b     8)                  195.0   195.0    Posture                   180.0      180.0        4730      4730   9910           5180              16.8
Planted Forae            5.0       8.0
Maize B                   -        30.0
Rented out Land              30.0         --
Soil Cons. B                -          188.0
TOTAL          Jj45    0
LenWd  MC   M Mlcrocatchment, S   Su_ -  r Cropping, W a Winter Cropping
Soil Conservation A, B, C, end D: soll conservation works In production systee A, 8, C, and D (eoffee)



BErotimei mnefitid Area. end yields mad  r0pidC%;p of lbia  Came. wil_
#1m..Jw  and Pt Full DwnsSmm.
Cropped Area (1000 be) per Placroresion                Pripet Benefited Area (1 000 ha        ~    Yield fKalha)                  Product,or, _000 ton orMS
Product       1   2    2    A             I     Z   I    I2oini       Adptont~      Ezistino                     WC] Proiect         WthVD Pro,ect                    W.th    Incr.mm.'tal
ft" 4!1         Areat       A         Cimrzn&      Yr. I       'roi.ct   C.rrent      Yr  10  P.-O,.ct  (Yr. 10-13)
Croo/prouct, on Syats
Soybean (C)            -   30  100   50   100  700    40  20    1040              315           364-                   2150        1950       2600      782.6  *   709 8   946 4          236.6
Wheat (C)              - (20) (70) (15)  (50) (600)  (3C') (15)   (900)          (35)         (315)           -        1700        1550       2125      535.5        488 3   669 4        181.1
"aize cc)              -   10   30          20  100    30  30       220            35            77           -        2800        2520       4200      215 6         1q4 C,  323 4       129.4
Maize (a)              -   30   60   30    60  290    30   -         5S0          35            175           -        2400        2160       3400      420.0        378 &-  612 S        234.5
Maize (A)              -   20  120   90    20                       250           35             88           -        1400        1400       1800      123.2        123 2   158 4        52.8
'Maize A Beans (B)    6   10   40   30    30   10                    1  26         35             44           -        1800/650   1700/600  2400/700  79.2/28 6 74 8/26 4 1OS 6/30.8 30.8/4 4
Beans (B)              -   10   50   40    20   40    2010          1910          351            67                   SW60        rX*        900        AO p         40.2    60 3         20a
maize j/             (6) (10) (40) (30)  (30)(210)        - -   (126)            (35)          (44)           -        --1400                           --                    61 6        61.6
Othner An. Crops/   -    -   IS   10         6  190    14  46       280           35            102           -       ----                               -                    -           -
Ceffss(Parchaent)(D)-       -    -   14       -   85    10  60      169           20             34           -         300        1170       1800      76.7         69 v    106 2        37.2
Fruit Trees2          5    -    5    1        -    2                  13          20              3           -        --                    -          -            -        -           -
Citrus (B)-         -     -     -     -     -     -      -    -       -             -             -           7        -           -22000               -            -      154 Ckf-13) 154.0
Pear (C)-         -      -      -    -      -     -      -    -       -            -              -           4       -                      II110O     -            -       44 0(Yr.13) 44.0
Forestry
Forest. folio.       90   94  240  193    56   63    10  44    790)                -              --                  -----                                                   --
Bracatinga (B)                                                        )-                                   25)(Fu.lwood)  -                   a.        --                    2230(Yrl2) 223(Y,l2)
Eucalypts (A))                                                                    1.2             -        54) (Tiin.r) -   -   -            yar.       --                    13-80(Yr12) 1380(Yr12)
Erva Mate(B)(fr.lv.)-       -    -    -      I           -   -        1)                       -           11.8(Fr.leave) -       -                     --                    96.8CYr13) 96.8
TOTAL             108  264  78D  708   372 2.030  204 560  5,026                21         2,064         94
Figures in brackets indicate double-cropped area (winter cropping).
Production Syst.ems: (C) moans mechanized farming using high level of modern inputs, average &IC** below 101.                                                                                       >-  ~
(8) means animal traction forming using medium level of modern ,nputs, average slope from 10 to from 10 to 201.
(A) means manual farming using lo- level of moern inputs. average slope fr4s IS to 301.                                                                                       I
(D) omeans specific coffee farming with average slope from 10 to 201.                                                                                                         i
21Second maize crop behind Maize and Beans mi.ed cropping.
No tt included in the total because benefiting only indirectly from the impro,.d land monagemert prect.cea.



LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT - PARANA
Project Economic Analysis
(Cz$ million)
1989     1990    1991      1992     1993     1994    1995    1996    1997    1998         1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007             2008
REMENTAL PROJECT BENEFITS
N-FARM BENEFITS                    184 3  1023.2  3386.2  7431.2 13329.7 37304 3 28095.9 34997.0 40174.3 43030.9 43484 7 44157.1 44661.5 44941.8 45194.3 45184.0 44407.0 44045.0 42477.5 42312 0
N-FARM OPtRATING COSTS             149.0   760 3  1973.0  3867 7  6374.0 22350.0 12506.9 14707.0 16141.1 16876.2 17039.5 17212.5 17271.4 17334.4 17396.1 17409.0 17288.9 17233.9 16908.1 16791 6
N-FARM INVESTMENT                 2967 5  5190.4  5989 9  9083.2  9540 1  8015. 7  6140.0   266.5  2077. 7  2989.9  4053. 1  4415 0  3275. 1  5593.2  4631.9  4020.6  2375.2   159. 7  3293.4  3694 3
ET ON-FARN BENEFITS             -2932 3 -4927 5 -4576 6 -5519 7 -2584 4  6938.6  9449.1 20023.5 21955.5 23164.7 22392.1 22529.6 24115.0 22014.2 23166.3 23754.5 24742.8 2bLa1.4 22275.9 21826.1
AL PROJECT COSTS
OTAL PROJECT COSTS                3650.5  2631.9  2789.5  3057. 6  3464. 7  3306.6  3159.0  1947 8  1947.8  1947.8  1307.8  1307.8  1307.8  1030.0  1030.0  1030.0  1030.0   427.8   427.8   427 8
PROJECI BENEFITS
ET BENEfITS                     -6582.8 -7559.4 -7366. 1 -8577.3 -6049. 1  3632.0  8290. 1 18075. 7 20007. 7 21216 9 21084. 3 21221.8 22807.2 20984.2 22136. 3 22724.5 23712.8 26223. 6 21848. 1 21398. 3                  r
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN :24. 5%
vmber 4. 1988  17:20
Comrpiling Subfile  LISTEM/FPP  Called by Subfile         COMPASS
0)19
tD X
La   L



- 63 -
blMtIL                                               ANE
AWO M_ T4AM4r I PROT1 - PARD                                     Table 3.4
Principal Priceg Umed for Financial and xaoic Anely.a                           Page 1
Commodities                           1988           1989            1990           1995             2000
F;on.   Econ.   Pin.  Econ.   Fin.  -Ec-on.   Fin-. -Econ.  Fin.7  Efc-on:
11PUTPVT
1. Soybean (export crox)
C.I.F. Rotterdam
(USW/ton, bulk)              316     316    294      294    262     262    278      278    208      208
Minus Freight and in&.          33      33      33      33     33       33     33      33      33      33
F.O.B. Parenaqus
(US$/ton, bulk)              283     283    261      261    229     229    245      245    175      175
F.O.8. Paranegue
(Cz6/kg, bulk)              53.8    53.8   49.6    49.6  43.5    43.5  46.6   46.6  33.3    33.3
Minu8 - Port Handling.         2.7     2.2    2.7      2.2    2.7      2.2    2.7     2.2    2.7      2.2
- Mark, Transport
to Port                4.7     3.0    4.7      3.9    4.7     3.9    4.7      3.9    4.7      3.9
- 104 (17S)              7.9       -    7.2        -    6.1       -    6.7        -    4.4        -
F.armgate Price (Ct$/kg)      38.6    47.7   35.0    43.5   30.0    37.4   32.5    40.5   21.5    27.2
2. Coffee (export croo)
ICO Ind. Price
C'I.F. Now York
(US6/kg)                    3.00    3.00   2.97    2.97   2.97    2.97   2.S7    2.87   2.88    2.88
Minus Freight and Ins.         .08      .08    .08     .08    .08      .08    .08      .08    .08     .08
FOB Paranagum
(USt/ton lot qual.)         2.92    2.92   2.89    2.89   2.89    2.89   2.79    2.79   2.80    2.80
FOB Paranagus
(US6/ton aver. qual.)       2.63    2.63   2.60    2.60   2.60    2.60   2.51    2.51   2.52    2.52
FOB Paranague (Cz6/US)         500     500    495      495    495      495    477     477    479      479
Minus - Quote Contribu-
tion S!)             25        -     25        -     25       -     24        -     24        -
- Port Handling            6       5      6        5      6       5       6       5      6        5
- Orading, Market
ing and Transport
to Port              33       27     33      27      33      27     33       27     33      27
- Taxes (16S)             70       -     69        -     69       -      66       -     66        -
Farogate Price
(Cza/kg green beans)         866     468    362      463    362     463    348      445    350      447
Faragate Price
(Cz6/kg dried berries)       201     257    199      255    199     256    191      245    192      246
3. Maixe (import *ubstitute)
FOB Oulf Port
(USt/ton yellow 2)          1.08    1.08   1.03    1.03      91      91      95      95    103      103
Plus Freight and Ins.           22      22      22      22     22       22     22      22      22      22
CIF Paranagua
(USt/ton, bulk)              130     130    125      125    113     113    117      117    125      125
CIF Paranagu3
(Cat/kg, bulk)              24.7    24.7  23.8    23.8   21.5    21.5   22.2    22.2   23.8    23.8
Plus - _ocel Port Charges      3.9     3.2    3.9      3.2    3.9     3.2    3.9      3.2    3.9      3.2
- Tariffs                   -       -      -        -      -       -       -       -      -        -
- Transport to Market,
Sagging               1.9     1.6    1.9      1.6    1.9     1.6    1.9      1.6    1.0      1.6
Equals Wholesale Market
Price                       30.5    29.5  29.6    28.6   27.3    26.3   28.0    27.0   29.6    28.6
Minus - Transport to Market   3.8      3.2    3.8      3.2    3.8      3.2    3.8     3.2    3.8      3.2
- ICM (12S)              8.2       -    3.1        -    2.8       -    2.9        -    3.1        -
- Storage Lose           2.4     2.4    2.3      2.3    2.1     2.1    2.1      2.1    2.3      2.3
Faregate Price (Czt/kg)       21.1    23.9   20.4    23.1   18.6    21.0   19.2    21.7   20.4    23.1



- 64 -
BR4ZIL                                                ANNEX 3
LANDiAWOMT I PROJET - PARAN                                       Table 3.4
Principal Prices Used for Financial *nd Economic AnalyMs                         Page 2
Commod ities                          1988           1989            1990            1995             2000
Fi.n. Econ.   Fi'n. on.    F in.   Econ.   FTh.   Econ.   F;n.   Econ.
4. Wheat (i mport substit-'te)
FOB Canadian Port (USS/ton)   178       178    178      178    145      145    149      149    169      159
Plus Freight and Ins.            24      24     24       24     24       24     24       24     24       24
CIF Paranague (USS/ton bulk)  202       202    202      202    169      169    173      173    183      183
CIF Peranagua (CzS/kg)        38.4    38.4   38.4    38.4   32.1    32.1   32.9    32.9   34.8    34.8
Plus - Local Port Charges       3.9     3.2    3.9      3.2    3.9      3.2    3.9      3.2    3.9      3.2
- Tariffs                   -        -      -        -      -        -      -        -      -       -
- Transport to Market,
Bagging               1.9      1.6    1.9     1.6    1.9      1.6    1.9      1.6    1.9      1.6
Equals Wholesale Market
Price                       44.2    43.2   44.2    43.2   37.9    36.9   38.7    37.7   40.6    39.6
Minus - Transport to Market,
Bagging              3.8     3.2    3.8      3.2    3.8      3.2    3.8      3.2    3.8      3.2
- ICM end PIS (15.5)    6.3         -    6.3       -    5.3        -    5.4         -    5.7       -
Farmgate Price (CzS/kg)       34.1    40.0   34.1    40.0   28.8    33.7   29.5    34.5   31.1    36.0
INPQTS
1. Urea
FOB N.W. Europe (USS/ton)       148     148    169      169    214      214    198      198    186      186
Plus Freight and Ins.            70      70     70       70     70       70     70       70     70       70
CIF Paranagua (USS/ton)         218     218    239      239    284      284    268      268    256      256
CIF Paranague (CzS/kg)         41.4    41.4   45.4    45.4   54.0    54.0   50.9    50.9   48.6    48.6
Plus - Local Port Charges       3.2     2.7    3.2      2.7    3.2      2.7    3.2      2.7    3.2      2.7
- Tariffs (minus
subsidies)                  -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -           -
- Transport to Farm,
Marketing            4.4.     3.7    4.4      3.7    4.4      3.7    4.4      3.7    4.4      3.7
Farmgate Price (CzS/kg)       49.0    47.8   53.0    51.8   61.6    60.4   58.5    57.3   56.2    55.0
2. Potaosium Chloride
FOB Vancouver (USS/ton)          87      87     90       90     97       97    101      101    106      106
Plus Freight and Ins.            70      70     70       70     70       70     70       70     70       .0
CIF Pararagua (USS/ton)         159     159    160      160    167      167    171      171    176      176
CIF Paranague (CzS/kg)        30.2    30.2   30.4    30.4   31.7    31.7   32.5    32.5   33.4    33.4
Plus - Local Port Charges      3.2      2.7    3.2      2.7    3.2      2.7    3.2      2.7    3.2      2.7
- Tariffs (minus
subsidies)              -        -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
- Transport to Farm,
Marketing             4.4     3.7    4.4      3.7    4.4      3.7    4.4      3.7    4.4      3.7
Farmgate Price (LzS/kg)       37.8    36.6   38.0    36.8   39.3    38.1   40.1    38.9   41.0    39.8
Source:  Calculated on the basis of international prices from IECCM memo of October 20, 1988; 1985 constant
USS adjusted to 1988 constant USS using factor 1.407 (MW Index).  Economic prices for other inputs
and outputs were calculated using the standard conversion factor of .83,



- 65 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3.5
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGmtiEMOT PROJECT - PARANA
Project Sensitivity Analysis
VALUE Al OCC          COSTS AT OCC          RATE OF
YEST CASES    TEST CASE VARIATIONS                    OF 12 00             OF 12 00             RETURN
BASE CASE                                              4 04006E-tO                220 2S             24 5S
TEST CASE  I B1OT. INC            DOWN 10             3 45255E-10                 188. 1I           23 5
TEST CASE  2  BTOT INC             0OWN 20S            2.86503E-10                 156 IS            22 42
TEST CASE  3  CTOT INC            UP   101             3 8565SE-10                191 IS             23 6S
TESI CASE  4  CTOT INC            UP   201             3 67305E-10                 166.8I            22 8A
TEST CASE  S  BTOT. INC           LAG    I YEARS       3 41058E-10                 185 92            22 61
TEST CASE  6  BT01. INC           LAG    2 YEARS       2. 84855E-10                155.2Z            20 9S
SWITCHING VAIUES AT 12X
lPPRAISAL    SWITCHING    PERCENTAGE
STREAM                   VALUE         VALUE          CHANGE
BTOT. INC         5.875TTE-10  1.83505E-10           -68.771
CTOT. INC          1.83505E-10  5.8751IE-10         220. 16S
Net Present Value at OCC 121   40.400.609.153
Internal Rate of Return   24.51
Coupon Equivalent Rate of Return   44.52
PRESENT VALUES OF NET STREAMS AT A DISCOUNT RATE OF 121
BTOT. INC      UP IO1       UP 201       UP 502    DOW1N 10    OORN 202    0OIIN 50   LAG I YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS
CTOT. INC     4. 04006E-10 4. 62757E10 5. 2150SE-10 6. 97761E-10 3. 45255E-10 2. 86503E-10 I 10250E-10 3. 41058E-10 2. 84855E-10 2. 34673E-10
UP 101        3.85655E-10 4.44406E-10 5.03157E-10 6.79411E-10 3.26904E-10 2.68153E-10 9 18998E-09 3.22707E-10 2 66504E-10 2 t6323E-10
UP 202        3.67305E-10 4.26056E-10 4 84807E-10 6.61060E-10 3 08553E-10 2 49802E-10 7.35493E-09 3.04357E-10 2.48154E-10 1.97972E-10
UP 502        3. 12253E-10 3.71004E-10 4.29755E-10 6 06009E-10 2.53502E-10 1.94751E-10 1.84977E-09 2.49305E.10 1.93102E-10 1 42921E-10
DOWN 10      4 22356E-10 4 81107E-10 5 39858E-10 7. 16112E-10 3 63605E-10 3.04854E-10 I 28600E-10 3 59409E-10 3 03205E-10 2 53024E-10
DONN 202      4.40707E-10 4.99458E-10 5.58209E-10 7.34462E-10 3.81956E-10 3.23204E-10 1.46951E-10 3 77759E-10 3.21556E-10 2.71374E10
DOWN 501      4 95758E-10 5 54509E-10 6 13261E-10 7 89514E-1o 4.37007E-10 3 78256E-10 2.02003E-lo 4 328tIE-10 3 76607E-10 3.26426E-10
LAG I YEAR               -            -            -             -            -            -             - 3.60719E-10 3.045161.10 2.54335E-10
LAG 2 YEARS              -            -             -            -            -            -             -              3.22071E-t10 2.71889E-10
LAG 3 YEARS                           -            -             -            -            -            -                          - 2.87563E-10
INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN OF NET STREAMS
BOT. INC      UP 101       UP 201        UP 50      0O1N 102    01WN1 202    DOWN 502  LAG I YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS
C0T1. INC          24.470        25.279       25.986       27.659       23.533        22.434       17.553       22 617       20.895        19 330
UP 102              23.624       24 470       25 210       26 969       22.648        21 507       16 475       21.765       20.059        18 523
UP 202              22.821       23.699       24.470       26.307        21.8.10      20.631       15.470       20.965        19.279       17 775
UP 502              20 631       21 589       22.434       24 470        19 535       18 266       12 800        18 818       17.216       15.814
DOWN IOS           25.363        26.131       26.801       28.379       24.470        23.419       18.211       23.528       21 797        20.206
DOWN 201           26 307        27.031       27 659       29. 131      25.465        24 470       19 964       24.504       22.775        21 165
DOWN 502           29.521        30.067       30.536       31.615       28 877        28. 105      24.470       27.946       26.328        24.730
LAG I YEAR                                          -            -            -            -                    24 470       22 617        20 895
LAG 2 YEARS              -            -             -            -            -            -             -            -      24.470        22.617
LAG 3 YEARS              -                                -                   -            -             -            -            -       24 470
Present Value of Streams at            12 001



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT I PROJECT - PARANA
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
I.   State Government of Parana Documents (October/November 1987,
March/May 1988, June/July 1988 and September/October 1988).
A.  October 1987 s
Volume I      State Natural Resources - Zoning
Volume II     State Land Use and First Soil Conservation Program
- PHISA
Volume III : Preliminary Proposal
Volume IV  : Project Admiristration, Honitoring
Volume V   t Special Credit
B.  November 1987 s
Chapter I     : The Borrower and its Agencies
Part 1-Vol. 4.:  The State Administration
Chapter II    s The State Characteristics and Performances
Part 1-Vol. 2 s The State Economy
Part 2-Vol. 2 s The State Agricultural Sector
Part 3-Vol. 2 t State Microregions, Land Use and Project Area
Chapter III   t Parana Rural Production Development Program
Part 1-Vol. 3 : Program Area, Beneficiaries, Technological
Packages, Incremntal Production
Parts 2,3,4,5-
Volume 3    t FLnancial Annexes
Chapter IV    s The Land Management/Soil Conservations
Subprogram
Part I-Vol. 4 i Draft Technical Proposal
Part 2-Vol. 4 s Subprogram Implementatlons (September 1987)
Part 3-Vol. 4   a Financial & Economic Analyses (not available)
C. March/May 1988.
Volume 1      s Land Management/SoLl,.ConservatLon Subprogram
- Main Report (April 1988)
Vol. 2a and 2bs  Project Components and Costs (March 1988)
Volume 3      s Technical Strategy (April 1988)
Volume 4      s Farm Model Description (May 1988)
Volume 5      : Lime DLstribution Facllities - Flnancial and
Economic Analyses for the Two Proposed Options
(March 1988)
Volume 6      : Annexes for PHISA Evaluatlon (1986),
Phytosanitary Control, Soil Conservation and
Natural Resource Protection Law No. 8014/84,
Reg. by Decree No. 6120/85.. Evaluation, and
Project Financial Control (March 1988)



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
Vol. 7a and 7b:  Management Program for Parana Section of Perra
do Mar Conservation Program (1987)
Volume 8       : Soil Conservation Fund
Volume 9       : Justification for the Construction of a Deposit
for Storage of Agro-Chemicals
D. June/July 1988:
Working Papers on:
- Adaptive Research
- Rural Extension (Public and Private)
- Incentive Program for Land Management, Soil Conservation, and
Pollution Control Works
- Erosion Control Works along Rural Roads
- Lime Distribution Facilit'es
- Forestry Development
- Land Use Mapping (Monitoring and Control)
- Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation
- Training
E. September/October 1988
Various Complementary Documents:
- Draft Operating Agreements (convenios) between: SEAB and IAPAR;
SEAB, IAPAR, EMATER-PR, SUREHMA and UFPR; SEAB, EMATER-PR,
OCEPAR and APEPA; SEAB and DER-PR; SEAB, CAFE do PR, RFFSA and
DER-PR; SEAB and CAFE do PR; SEAB and ITCF; SEAB, ITCF, IPARDES
and EMATER-PR; SEAB, through DEFIS, and EMATER-PR; and SEAB and
IPARDES.
- IAPAR Terms of Reference for the 5 sample microcatchments under
the Adaptive Research Component.
- Decree No. 4056 of October 27, 1988, creating and regulating
the Deliberative Commission for PARANA RURAL.
- Decree No 4056 of October 27, 1988, creating and regulating the
Administrative Unit (AU) within SEAB.
- Draft Operational Manual for the Soil Conservation Fund
- Draft Model of Contract for Typical Erosion Control Works along
a Rural Road Section.
- Draft Operating Agreement to be entered between SEAB and the
Municipality concerned for the maintenance of the improved road
section.
- IPARDES Terms of Reference of the Baseline Evaluation of the
Project.
II.   IBRD Documents (July 1988)
- COSTAB (with and without vehicles and data processing
equipment)
- FARMOD (7 farm models)
- Economic Analysis



MAP SECTION



SO      PAULO                                                                                                     BRAZIL'
MATO  GROSSO                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LAND MANAGEMENT I PROJECT -PRN
-i  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~PROJECT AREA - ADAPTIVE RESEARCH AND
DO  SUL                                                                                                         -                                                                                        TRAINING COMPONENTS
(I   ~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~~PROJECT  EXISTING
Po,ranooi                              8,0                                                o6(                                                                      IAPAR Region..l Offio.
0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~otadA                                                                                                                   Trainig C-entr
-             -             ~~~~~~~~~~Bel. Vista do Poroino  Bondeiran!,es                                                                     [ 0   Research   t-
9,                                                                                                          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Resed,c St.tions with Sand Pr.oessing Unit
C r,loPr cpio                                                                          An-wanigeiSain
10,ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iioo~                                                                                                                                                 EMRRAPA.CNPS
Londr;,o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.EMBRAPA-CNPF
-  -  -                                         4      -        Londrino~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ El         ooqim- or                                                          Soil Lab1ratoies
umom.o ~~~~~~N>Ap.ooroa -A o
Jacsquinn Tdvora                             ~~ ~~~~~~~0 Adaptina Raseo-h Laboratories
Uanucnraana ~   ~         ianrt
I___   -----                                                                . 0oiIniod                                                                                                                      1a - -Ioeoimn Linss - Yearly Anerage (MJ/-rnch.lhoUr)
P-eod Roads
><  /  /                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mos-rgion Boundaries
21- ~~~~~~~~~~    /)~Stat.Capitol                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         24'
/  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      >-~~~~~~~~~~~--.>                             S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T. 00,0,           State Boondori.s
/                  ~~~~~~~~Coanpo M-uao.                                                   (                                                                                          Interntional Boundaries
~~~--~~~~~~   poiotina~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~~~~  6 ~~~~TeI6 acoBorba
Nova Conto                                                                                                              2T
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aAzul                                                                     F
o.to GroCssma    ~                                   oaoqngb
S. Migoni do IgoO~~~~o              do l~~~nsXo  Loroniniros do Sul         Guaropuon
S. Mig.e   lguas.                                                                                                     ixeira                                                                                             eeouutSoo
*                     P~~~~~~~~k lanaltoLo                                                                                                                                                                             0
26'                                                     oPto Bronco
<c, ~  ~      ~      ~      - 1ranciscoNAelt,nnER                                                                                                                                                                                 BRAZILEaa
Cr00.50,    g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
5'OrO"O'rO,O  SANTA~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0I
Cl-elardio  pol,,os ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~OCOER1L



St            7                                      ~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAO  PAULO            dvBRAZIL
MATO  GROSSO                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LAND MANAGEMENT I PROJECT - PARANA&
DOSUL                       g0o,no/PROJECT AREA - RURAL EXTENSION COMPONENT
~~ 0P6rto Rico  ~   Crov.iro do SulS                                          ~i         z5 ;''                                               PROJECT EY____N
0                                      / 0Soronejoc6
- Mounoc.         I                                       at'-jo                                                     EMATER-PR Regional Office
Poronoo- *0        -ldo Mob                                                     coreinho   -'                                               EMATER-PR L-  fi
A ~~   ~                      0t,nv,.vv~~~~.,   0Caeibes        co0i.i0*.  q-    )  Barra do                                                   SEAS Regional Offices (NR's)
Topino                  P        -                        Qttoton111o Procopso         Sbemt' dl                                                             SEAS Regional Office EBon.dania
0 Guaoopornos                                                       rocp
NocOlof        Jooo0 Qoo              *                 Loedrrnog*       Sa                           ? 
'  .?oo Antdn,io   C-otiu
Tome0              /         000         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~do Poroiso  Q   goinhostg6
Sdo T..60  i ~    ~         0ombio                     0 
Sac Jorge do       UmocoeCo0                                               b     K          a     .Jrnir dodotar  ,
/0Potrocinoio                                              L'c  6 Soes     oilri      ~/aV$sap                               0
Tooeiros do Oeste    traoo                              o u                        0          bt                 (-                                        Poved Roads
po Semga
a                                                                  Qiordm Alngr~vt,v                                            \         04                            -. -InteneoiocelAS.ndorie
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 JJ.ed
aledo                                                                                                 4  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k6,             m-i. lral
24'        Francisco AWes         epo                                                   ->       .0Poric  (Ls C,,                                                                             ptl2
-  (    ~~~~~K-.                                                                                                                                                                            st.*.Coscocn
a.)  0Misscl      Told                        CFpnodo Logooo
Cop tac Le6nidos Morques0      G-'u0Qrd"a_
Nc       C,UiohTIBA
NoProto k-'o
1                                            S0Molint ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                              0~ ~~~~Metinhos    \ 
)    A  4iPronchito.5r.3
26'  ~   ~       0451Uniac do 
<C'          ~~~~Francisco Reltrao ,N,                                   oro toonWar         Pov6a .Pr..'.e'-                -'                                                                    BRAZIL
4Ren-se,,v            ro-co                                                                                                                                           .
v,Cvfr,,v'.vvenfvv,,v.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ '                          CorleiroN
~~v4 v,v no tvo,dv,vi -  Z    i                                          Ti'5                 0             50~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 ~  1?0      150 KILOMETERS                       cmL
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 50                                                                                           56OMI LES
SANTA        CATARINAo
OCTOBER PR



54_____________________________________________ _I                                                                                                                                                                                                             D /I  5113RD  211 IE
SAO              PAULO                                                                                                     BRAZIL
MATO  GROSSO                                                                                                                                                                               LAND MANAGEMENT I PROJECT - PARANA
PROJECT AREA - LIME DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES,
DO   SUL                                                                                                                               T. Ib  s                                                   STATE PARKS, AND FOREST RESERVES
/FUURE
PROJECT (NON-PROJECT) EXISTING
(  Paronovoi ¢                                 ,i                          I        v  >           urMhol                       | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ z  z  Roilroods-~~~~~~~~Rolrod
Pared Roads
Arn.p                                                        C~~~~~~~~~~~Po,rtiio                                                                           l 2    Rilroad Te-rineIs (Ror li.e)
w#6.6>kxa  n f=  _+l  @                 >    "                             Londrina  b             -          J2arezinho\ r                                                       (h    Lime Deposits
L.nd,ino                               .zinho                                                          A     SEAB Regional OffRiro (NR's)
Fauna Centers
(D                 ~~~~~~~State Parks
Stat Fores Rs-enes
Marun,bi Park
p.c.,.n.J  \   7'1     1                  )           /       1\       |                     [\ C                         Adlinistritiae and Enironnentl Troining Center
n GanorAe  t /                         \-\' |         \S                s           l        \\        ^                     A                           ControlTowers
Control Post
/   Umutra:   /   iA Gu/elra)/   ?   &  %}         A                           2                    i                                         --   SEAB RcgionSl Crffio Boundoaries
j ,* v /                                                          {9zVilo Rico    X    >O;   \   {  VX r                             Main Sirens
eY\                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~M.oregien BSeurd.enie
24'     Co                                                                                                                                                                  $1.f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sae Cepitol  24'
T. 1tn.                             State Boundaries
-24t  > X e  <   CompoMo7               ;7  lsoiporav         <          X          4           J                  8          {     <    rolton7m                     _w;_  IntcrnotionolBrJundorics                           24 l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Inerntioal Sundnia
Cobaca do                  t-             ( r                               0                          >         \\  tDGeroldaRussi                       y t               ^ roPinhdwinho                        *A/isT/amcneolli"^vesilrope,lorus
j %\ al. / 2 03 l (i)                                                                     23 Brquinhg                                                                                          Q   r
@   \iTaleda   /  /=*                          ,<z-∞                        ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Corrego Moaria Flza. yl\aRnh         / 
Cccho,ro                                                                                        b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or  v      J
)    A,U,EOIThßt6,,&     5    e                     ~                   '        ..                                  t  /                                                    l                                                              i ce         .
pA r s nUP ro  u..ee rn                              '~                                                                                                                                  T '  ' '     ∞  50                                   Li
var.l.8oe _(  ne  _  uOn _   E /                               ,                                                          Ta   Pe_
∞ ;rXo>ffeoworaY@flsltis   )SANTFA                        CA        '~ TA R IN                      O,XOAaEnNO9    /
r~smr. . f a.ana oanc                                                    LOt ttRtt                                                                                                                                                                      rNi 
ssu oo=   es 54  1                                                    52                                                                    50                            Sul
(D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COE IYd



