Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18164
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT I PROJECT - PARANA
(Loan 3018-BR)
June 30, 1998
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Local Currency Unit:   Brazilian Cruzado (Cz$)/Real (R$)
Rate at Appraisal:     US$1                  NCz$190
Rate at Completion:    US$1                  R$1.06
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I to December 31
Vice President    Shahid Javed Burki
Director         Maritta Koch-Weser
Director         Gobind T. Nankani
Team Leader      Michael Carroll



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAS                Assessoria de Assuntos Setoriais
(Project Management Unit)
APEPA              Associacio Paranaense de Empresas de Planejamento Agricola
(State Consulting Firms Association and Association of State Agricultural
Planning Consultants)
BADEP              Banco de Desenvolvimento do Parana S.A
(State Development Bank) (extinct)
BANESTADO          Banco do Estado do Parana
(Parana State Bank)
CAFE DO PARANACompanhia Agropecuaria de Fomento Econ6rmico do Parana
(State Agncultural Promotion Company) (extinct, replaced by CODAPAR)
CELEPAR            Companhia de Processamento de Dados do Parana
(State Data Processing Company)
CODAPAR            Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agropecuario do Parana
(State Agriculture Sector Development Company)
CEMH               Comissao Estadual de Microbacias Hidrograficas
(State Microcatchment Commission)
CMMH               Comissao Municipal de Microbacias Hidrograficas
(Municipal Microcatchment Commission)
DEFIS              Departamento de Fiscaliza,co da SEAB
(SEAB's Sanitaiy Control Department)
DER-PR             Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem do Estado do Parana
(State Roads Department)
EMATER             Empresa de Assistencia T6cnica e Estensao Rural
(State Rural Extension Service)
GOP                Govemment of Parana
IAP                Instituto Ambiental do Parana
(State Environmental Institute)
LAPAR              Instituto Agron6mico do Parana
(State Agricultural Research Institute)
IPARDES            Instituto Paranaense de Desenvolvomento Econ6mico e Social
(State Planning histitute)
ITCF               Instituto de Terras, Cartografia e Florestas
(State Land, Cartography and Forest Institute)
OCEPAR             Organiza*o das Cooperativas do Estado do Parana
(State Cooperatives Association)
PMISA              Programa de Manejo Integrado de Solos e Agua
(Integrated Soil and Water Management Program)
RFFSA              Rede Ferroviria Federal SA
(Federal Railroad Company)
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SEAB               Secretaria de Agricultura e Abastecimento
(State Secretariat of Agriculture and Supply)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



SEMA               Secretaria do Meio Ambiente
(State Environmental Secretariat)
SURHEMA            Superintendencia de Recursos Hidricos e Meio Ambiente
(Superintendency for Water Resources and the Environment) (extinct)
TM                 Technical Manual



Lt* (.. vAH1Pains) fLIOdai MOLL3TIdiNO3 iI3MoRoa :V xaNKy
It. *. .---.-. -----------------SISA[IVKV. 1N0N03a JMOUJ :c XINNmV
.C ......-.-........ ----.I................I............S..l..A MOLLf II21LSIU a:WI    :Z XaN
LZ ............     S41VO'I 1L1VHaH  O1OIV SNXOM IOHINJO3 NOISORa :1 X :IN
9z .S.. .d......                                         :5... ........NRSa310  6 raliv
. ...................Sl.NV. .O.D'IVDI IO SfVIS  8 HIVJ.
.J2af-O.IdsUx NI UaCInaNI s3IUfUS 9 aIaV.
L1.                                                        V.UIIAD1 DaCO'&    £ TIR
91.SNVOI3or a sN8                                                              gra~IZ JvJ
.l*----------------------------------------    OII~IA~OJAt%i  'II4;)SEIVJS II .TaX
t1                                     ~~~~~~~~pauieasuossaiAax    
EZ.....................................................- --o aroJwi     acnio msmUl°aru    9 TEv
61 ........................o. .             ;       G......... la,t o U oueulad GJH7n
LI ..............................    &I.                     IUGU ISKS Gwoli  V  q
LIJM1O . .  .     .     .     .    .     ..                g        Uoarou JJ   a9J
91                           ''''''-'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''' ''''''''''''''''''' 9aUSUOJO Xw a JGJ qvJGJ
m.N3SIS NOJJMWINIS .LXIO'I 1 nIUVJ
91 ................................................ -----IVH14   -iaLS VL  -------------- JLdVd
sl,uauo3 jo alqe.L
VNVV - lJ3fOlIc I 1N3WI9VVN UNV
1110311 I4OIsaIIdAIO3 NOIIV'IN3N IJ



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT I PROJECI - PARANA
(LOAN 3018-BR)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Land Management I Project -
Parana, Brazil, for which Loan 3018-BR, in the amount of US$63.0 million equivalent was approved
on February 15, 1989 and became effective on June 6, 1989. The contribution by the State of Parana
to the project was estimated at around US$86.1 million.
2.    The Loan was closed, as foreseen in the Loan Agreement, on March 31, 1997. Total Loan
funds disbursed were US$63.0 million (100% of estimates) and the State disbursed the equivalent of
US$98.8 million (147.5% of SAR estimates).
3.    The ICR was prepared by Ivo Marzall and Vittorio Silvestri of the Food and Agriculture
Organization\World Bank, Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) and Michael Carroll, Project Team Leader
of the Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Department (LCSES). The ICR was
reviewed by Anna Roumani, LCSES, while Ranjinee Rudran was responsible for its production.
4.    The ICR is based on material in the project file, evaluation reports, supervision reports,
discussions with Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project, input from staff of the
implementing agencies, and a comprehensive Borrower Completion Report (BCR). Terms of
Reference for the BCR were prepared and agreed upon during the last supervision mission of the
project in January, 1997. The findings and conclusions of the BCR were discussed during the ICR
mission conducted in late June, 1997.



II



- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT I PROJECT - PARANA
(LOAN 3018-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    With a total area of around 200,000 km2 (2.3% of the national territory), the State of Parana is
Brazil's second most important grain producer. The state has fertile soils and a relatively equitable
land tenure structure, with small- and medium-scale family farms predominating. Accelerated
agricultural intensification during the 1970's, magnified by the introduction of mechanized farming
replacing coffee areas severely damaged by increasing frosts, caused generalized soil compaction,
structural degradation, and reduced ground cover. Under the highly erosive rains, this resulted in
dramatic soil erosion, silting and flooding. Inappropriately aligned rural roads exacerbated these
problems. As a consequence, crop yields stagnated or declined while production costs increased.
Inadequate management of pesticides and animal wastes contributed to increased chemical and
biological pollution.
2.    Successive soil conservation programs were launched from the mid-1970's onwards. Initially
concentrated on mechanical practices promoted through rural credit to individual farmers, these
programs gradually evolved into integrated land management practices with a microcatchment
approach under the Integrated Soil and Water Management Program in Microcatchments (PMISA)
launched in 1986. The PMISA experience showed that government resources must be linked to a soil
management strategy rather than to promote the adoption of individual practices. These were the basic
concepts that guided the preparation of the Land Management I Project submitted to the Board of the
World Bank in 1989.
Project Objectives
3.    The objectives of the project were to increase agricultural productivity, improve the net incomes
of the farmers and safeguard the State's natural resources through increased adoption of sustainable,
modem practices of land management and soil and water conservation. Project interventions at the
microcatchment level were intended to: (i) promote actions to increase the area and duration of
vegetative cover of the soil, better protecting it from sealing under intense rainfall; (ii) improve intemal
soil structure and drainage, thereby increasing water infiltration; and (iii) to dispose of any remaining
run-off of surface water flows, either within or outside farm boundaries.



-v -
4.    The results were expected increased farm profitability, accompanied by the reduction of soil
loss, silting of rivers and reservoirs, floods, deterioration of rural roads, pollution of water sources and
depletion of natural resources. The project was also to strengthen the State of Parana's capacity to
implement more efficiently an expanded state-wide land management and soil conservation program. It
was expected to benefit about 165,000 farm families - most of them small-scale farmers, representing
41% of the total farm units in the state - residing in 2,100 microcatchments covering 25% of the state
and distributed among the state's 311 municipalities. To achieve these objectives, the project had nine
components: (a) adaptive research focusing on improved soil cover and soil structure (13% of total
costs); (b) public and private extension services to assist in planning and execution of microcatchment
soil conservation plans (18% of total costs); (c) financial assistance to microcatchment farmers'
associations through an incentive program for land management and pollution control works (18% of
total costs); (d) erosion control works along rural roads in microcatchments (26% of total costs); (e) rail
terminal facilities to reduce transport costs of lime (5% of total costs); (f) commercial and conservation
forestry and environmental studies to protect state parks and forest reserves, including conservation
activities for the Parana section of the Serra do Mar Conservation Project (10% of total costs); (g) land
use monitoring and control (4% of total costs); (h) project administration, monitoring and evaluation
(3% of total costs); and (i) training (4% of total costs). Total project costs including contingencies were
estimated at US$149.1 million, of which the Bank would finance US$63.0 million.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The project is rated Highly Satisfactory as it fully achieved its main objectives. The 2,433
microcatchments assisted by the project exceeded the Staff Appraisal report (SAR) target by 16%, and
the number of farmers directly benefiting from the project totaled 214,000 (130% of the forecast).
The adoption rates of the recommended land management technologies varied from 30-50%,
exceeding the SAR estimates by 40-50%. Project-promoted yields increased by 30% and incremental
production in the last implementation year was 38%, representing an added total value of US$330
million in the project area. The value of nutrient gains from reduced soil loss were estimated at about
US$75 million annually, while preliminary research results suggest that urban water treatment costs
were reduced by 50-80% as a consequence of reduced water turbidity, which declined by over 60% in
monitored microcatchments.
6.    Adoption of project-promoted soil management practices was enhanced by the incentives of the
Soil Conservation Fund. The Fund helped to demonstrate, in a concentrated way, the efficiency of
modem land management techniques in reversing the pre-project soil degradation process into a
sustainable, high-yielding, environmentally-friendly farming environment. A total of 11,114 km of
feeder roads were realigned, contributing to reduced water run-off and erosion, improved traffic
conditions and reduced road maintenance costs.
7.    Soil-use monitoring helped both to generate important data on impact of land management
techniques and to motivate reluctant farmers in the assisted microcatchments to adopt the
recommended practices. Through specific studies and mapping, the project created the basis for
improved land management strategies in Parani. Project training activities were vital for the improved
land management planning and implementation capacity of both technicians and farmers. The railroad
lime distribution structure established by the project, and expanded during implementation with the
construction of 38 integrated municipal road terminals, ended up being under-utilized due to



externalities that made the scheme non-competitive. However, the lime promotion campaign - the
central objective of the component - contributed to gradually increasing total state lime consumption
from a stabilized volume of 1.6 million tons in the 1985-91 period to 3.2 million tons in 1996.
8.    The forestry development component, through the distribution of 67 million seedlings and 6.6
tons of seeds (about 95% of the revised targets), contributed to increased awareness of the importance
of reforestation for the protection of water courses and erosion-prone slopes as well as for commercial
purposes and, through the parks and forest reserves activities, to increased awareness on protecting the
fauna and flora
9.    The project's good implementation performance and its very positive achievements are the
result of the efforts of a highly competent project management team, motivated executing staff,
receptive farmers, and continuous effective political support. Project final costs were US$161.9
million (109% of SAR estimates). The Loan was fully disbursed. The project's actual Economic Rate
of Return was estimated at 28 %, compared to 24% estimated ex-ante at appraisal (see Annex 3).
Lessons Learned
10.   The lessons leamed from this project, most of which confirm wider Bank experience, are:
The use of microcatchments as planning units was a key to success. It gave viability to conservation
measures that produced very litle impact in individual farms, and permitted the integration of roads
and water courses in an effective overall conservation scheme. This planning approach showed the
interdependence of all farm units within a microcatchment and contnbuted to an approach treating
small and large farmers as complementary elements of a single, expanded farming system.
Furthermore, the project-promoted enforcement of the soil-use law contributed to the integration of
large farmers, not assisted by the project, in the overall microcatchrnent development scheme.
-      :Continued political support was very important for the successful implementation of the project. The
project was considered a priority by all three administrations that govemed the state during the project
period. The permanence of the same Secretary of Agriculture for most of the implementation period
contributed to a regular funding flow, with only short spells reflecting occasional overall state
budgetary difficulties. In addition, the effective integration of project activities with the various rural
development programs promoted by the Secretariat of Agriculture and Supply (SEAB) in one single
contributed to an enhanced impact of the project.
Adequate knowledge of the state's potential and land management problems, resulting from studies
and accumulated extension experience over the last two decades, coupled with the existence of
relevant technologies developed by research, permitted the formulation of a clear technical strategy
and its translation into effective land management practices that were vital for project success.
*     Favorable, homogeneous soil and overall physical conditions, compounded by homogeneous land
tenure and property design patterns, favored the understanding of the microcatchment as a unit, the
identification of common problems and the planning and implementation of actions. Poor natural
production potential, frequently associated with heterogeneous land tenure structures and the



- vi -
predominance of traditional, conservative farmers, frequently resulted in lower participation and
adoption rates.
The Soil Conservation Fund was the basic instrument for the implementation of the technical strategy.
Although the Fund incentives were limited and the component's total costs relatively modest (9.4% of
final project costs), it motivated the organization of groups and farmers to invest in collective and
individual soil conservation activities and equipment that were fimdamental for improved land
management
The Roads realignment program provided extensionists the core theme around which all the other
land management-related problems and solutions were discussed in common, and was therefore a
factor that contributed to farmers' organization. Road improvement was also decisive for motivating
the support of local governments to the project.
*     The fact that road-realignment subprojects were prepared by the extensionists ensured that roads
became adequately integrated in the overall microcatchment land management plan as established in
the technical strategy, and contributed to make the extension agents respected and well-known by the
community.
Although implemented on a pilot basis, the positive experience with the partnership SEAB-
municipalities for road improvement activities suggest that decentralized execution schemes, in the
presence of sound monitoring mechanisms, can contribute to accelerated implementation of rural
road programs.
The erosion control practice of terracing was another element that contributed to participatory action.
Microcatchment-planned terraces crossed farm boundaries, elininating fences and re-filling boundary
gullies. In addition to blocking runoff, the terraces contributed to expanded arable area and provided
extensionists the hook for introduction of the whole package of improved soil management practices
promoted by the project.
A skillful Project Administration Unit (AAS), with the appropriate political support and capable of
maintaining a dialogue with the various executing agencies, is essential to successful implementation.
Considering that inter-institutional coordination is usually very problematic, implementation
achievements under often difficult institutional and financial conditions is a merit of the AAS.
*     Dynamic, well-trained extensionists were the key to successful project implementation. They
mobilized the existing positive factors and created conditions to overcome and reverse negative
factors. They motivated authorities, farmers and the public in general, they helped farmers to identify
problems and to implement solutions, and they involved the private sector in project execution.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
LAND MANAGEMENT I PROJECT - PARANA
(LOAN 3018-BR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    By 1960, most of the natural forest that originally covered 85% of the State of Parana had been
replaced by coffee plantations and annual crops. Accelerated agricultural intensification over the
1970's, aided by the introduction of mechanized annual crops that replaced about one million hectares
of coffee plantations severely damaged by unusual frosts, caused generalized problems affecting soil
characteristics, including compaction and loss of structure. This resulted in alarming increases in soil
erosion, silting and flooding. These problems were compounded by land management difficulties
resulting from the narrow-strip land-allotment design adopted by the colonization companies and by the
negative impact of inappropriately aligned rural roads. As a result, crop yields stagnated or declined,
while production costs increased. More recently, the inadequate management of pesticides and animal
wastes contributed to increased chemical and biological pollution of rural areas.
2.    Successive soil conservation programs were launched by the state starting in the mid-1970s.
They concentrated initially on mechanical practices promoted through credit to individual farmers and
gradually evolved into integrated land management practices with a microcatchment approach under
the Integrated Soil and Water Management Program in Microcatchments (PMISA) launched in 1986.
The PMISA experience showed that to reduce erosion, government resources must be linked to a
strategy and not to the promotion of individual practices. These were the basic concepts guiding the
preparation of the Land Management I Project submitted to the World Bank in 1989.
B. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
3.    The objectives of the project were to increase agricultural productivity, to improve the net
income of farmers in Parani, and safeguard natural resources through increased adoption of
sustainable, modern forms of land management and soil and water conservation. The expected results
were an increase in farm profitability and a reduction in soil losses, the silting of river beds and
reservoirs, floods, destruction of rural roads, falling water tables, pollution of water sources and
depletion of natural resources. The project was also intended to strengthen the capacity of the State of
Parani to implement more efficiently an expanded state-wide land management and soil conservation
program.
4.    To achieve these objectives, the project had nine components: (a) adaptive research focusing
on improved soil cover and soil structure (13% of total costs); (b) public and private extension services



-2 -
to assist in planning and execution of microcatchment soil conservation plans (18% of total costs); (c)
financial assistance to microcatchment farmer associations through an incentive program which would
provide partial grants for land management, soil conservation and pollution control works which
resulted in wider social and economic benefits (18% of total costs); (d) erosion control works along
rural roads to reduce erosion in the microcatchments (26% of total costs); (e) rail terminal facilities to
reduce transport costs of lime, an input often crucial to achieving rapid crop cover (5% of total costs);
(f) commercial and conservation forestry and environmental studies to develop reforestation and protect
state parks and forest reserves, including conservation activities for the Parana section of the Serra do
Mar Conservation Project (10% of total costs); (g) land-use monitoring and control (4% of total costs);
(h) Project administration, monitoring and evaluation (3% of total costs); and (i) training (4% of total
costs).
5.    As a complementary activity to the project, the official credit system and participating banks
under the Bank-assisted Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2971-BR) was expected to provide project
beneficiaries with on-farrn investment credit. Project activities would be executed by state agencies
coordinated by the Secretariat of Agriculture and Supply (SEAB). A Project Administrative Unit
(AAS) within SEAB would coordinate and monitor project planning and implementation through
SEAB Regional Offices in coordination with Municipal Microcatchment Commissions (CMMH). The
total costs of the project, including contingencies, was estimated at US$149.1 million, of which the
Bank loan would finance US$63.0 million.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
6.    The project fully achieved its central objectives and is rated Highly Satisfactory, despite some
institutional problems and occasional funding constraints. Work was implemented in 2,433
microcatchments (116% of SAR targets), covering an area of about 3.1 million ha and benefiting
around 214,000 farmers (130% of the estimates), 95,000 of them through direct assistance. The
adoption rates of the recommended land management technologies varied from 30-50%, exceeding the
SAR estimates by 40-50%. Project-promoted incremental yields averaged 30% and incremental
production in the last implementation year was estimated at 38%, representing an incremental total
value of US$330 million. Financial Rates of Return in 14 farm models ranged from 14 to 31%.
Annual soil nutrient gains from reduced soil loss by erosion are estimated at about US$75 million.
Preliminary results from research conducted in selected microcatchment suggested that urban water
treatment costs were reduced by 50-80% as a consequence of reduced water turbidity, which declined
by over 60% in critical areas. Adoption of project-promoted soil management practices was enhanced
by the incentives of the Soil Conservation Fund. The Fund helped to demonstrate, in a concentrated
way, the efficiency of modem land management techniques in reversing the pre-project soil
degradation process into a sustainable, high-yielding, environmentally-friendly farming environment.
The 11,114 km of feeder roads realigned with project resources contributed to reduced run-off and
erosion, improved traffic conditions, and helped to reduce road maintenance costs by an estimated 50-
70%. Although the railroad lime distribution structure established by the project, expanded during
implementation with the construction of 38 integrated municipal road terminals, it was under-utilized
because of externalities that made the scheme non-competitive. The lime promotion campaign
accomplished by the component contributed to increased total state lime consumption from a stabilized
volume of 1.6 million tons in the 1985-91 period to 3.2 million tons in 1996.



-3 -
7.    The forestry development component, through the distribution of about 67 million seedlings
and 6.6 tons of seeds (about 95% of the revised targets), contributed to increased awareness of the
importance of reforestation for the protection of water sources and erosion-prone slopes as well as for
commercial purpose and through the parks and forest reserves activities, to increased awareness of the
need to protect fauna and flora resources. Soil-use monitoring helped to prompt reluctant farmers in
the assisted microcatchments to adopt the recommended practices and, through specific studies and
mapping, substantially created the knowledge basis required for improved land management strategies
and actions in Parani Project training activities were vital for the improved land management planning
and implementation capacity of both technicians and farmers. The project's good implementation
performance and its very positive achievements are the result of the efforts of a highly competent
project management team, motivated executing staff, receptive farmers, and a continued effective
political support. Actual project costs were US$161.9 million (109% of SAR estimates). Loan funds
were totally disbursed, and the estimated Economic Rate of Return on project completion was 28% as
compared to the ex-ante estimate of 24%.
D. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
8.    Loan Effectiveness and Closing. The Loan was approved on January 31, 1989, and became
effective on June 6, 1989. The Loan was closed on March 31, 1997.
9.    Project Costs and Financing. Actual project cost was US$161.8 million, as compared to the
US$149.1 million estimated at appraisal. The excess of US$12.7 million was due mainly to the
increased average salaries derived from the monetary stability established by the Piano Real instituted
in mid-1994, as well as higher than calculated counterpart contribution for the feeder-road component.
The Loan was totally disbursed.
10.   Disbursement. Loan disbursement performance was highly satisfactory. It was only 46.2%
of the disbursement schedule included in the SAR in Year 1, but subsequently averaged 109.4% from
Years 2-6, and 137.5% for Years 7-8. The low initial disbursement rate derived mainly from overall
start-up institutional limitations and, in particular, to the slower than foreseen international bidding
process for the construction of the lime terminals and the purchase of equipment for the Agricultural
Research component. Lower than expected Loan disbursements in Year 7, largely compensated by the
high disbursement rate in Year 8, were caused mainly by the change of Government and institution
responsible for the administration of the Soil Conservation Fund, which caused complete inactivity of
the Fund for several months.
11.   Implementation Problems. Given the project's institutional and operational complexity,
problems in implementation were frequent but were generally settled or minimized through appropriate
measures adopted by the AAS and the executing agencies. The main difficulties that affected project
implementation were caused by institutional problems derived from the State Government's (GOP)
structural adjustment and austerity policy and by cyclical budgetary constraints. Salary problems,
exacerbated by inflation, caused a high turnover of extensionists in the initial phase, slowing down
project start-up pace; they were eventually solved by the adoption by EMATER of an improved,
competitive salary policy. However, continuing unattractive salaries maintained by institutions under



-4 -
direct state administration (such as LAPAR and ITCF/IAP) caused a net staff reduction that eventually
led to the review of the research and forestry development programs accompanied by substantial
redeployment of existing staff to project activities. A three-fold change of the Soil Conservation Fund
managing institutions (first BADEP, than BANESTADO, and finally CODAPAR) resulted in as many
interruptions in Fund operation that lasted several months each. Mercosur-related macro-economic
measures contributed to reduced wheat areas, generally cultivated in succession to soybean. This had a
negative effect on both farm revenues and particularly the technical strategy for land management, as
wheat (a winter crop) generally used residual nutrients from the soybean crop and supplied the
necessary straw for soil cover in this farming system. The project promoted solutions to this problem,
through the introduction of winter green-manure crops combined with zero-tillage cultivation (plantio
direto). Macro-economic policies also caused the dramatic reduction of the area planted to cotton, the
main cash crop of important areas of the north and west, generating serious on- and off-farm economic
consequences that contributed to rural exodus and limited farmers' adhesion to the project in these
areas. The roads component design prioritized limited road-surface improvements in most
microcatchments that turned out to be insufficient to achieve the objectives of the technical strategy. In
fact, to integrate feeder roads in the overall land management plan, heavier earth moving was required.
At the time of the Mid-Term Review, target adjustments were introduced together with the necessary
fund reallocations that substantially increased the final costs of the component. Bidding delays and
technical problems delayed the operation of the railroad lime distribution scheme, while legal and
political problems obstructed the construction of the fifth railroad terminal, leading instead to the
establishment of a network of 38 storage and distribution facilities. However, when the railroad
system became fully operational, a number of converging externalities, in particular the privatization of
the State Railroad Company (RFFSA), ended up making the network unviable for lime distribution,
now being privately performed mainly by road transportation using the low-cost retum-freight capacity
of soybean trucks during the harvest season.
12.   Agricultural Research. The objective of this component, under the responsibility of IAPAR,
was mainly to ensure technological support to the project's land management strategy in
microcatchments. The component also included the monitoring of five pilot microcatchments. The
most relevant contributions of the research component included a number of alternatives to improve
soil cover, increase infiltration and reduce agrochemical pollution, while at the same time increasing
farm incomes. In addition, important results were obtained with improved varieties and adjusted
densities for annual crops; mulching techniques and weed-control practices for zero-tillage cultivation;
a series of agro-forestry altematives; the introduction of a great number of fruit crop altematives and
their management; integrated pest management techniques (IPM); green manuring and crop rotation;
and pasture improvement and management. Through the introduction of new varieties and crop
management methods, the component also helped to re-introduce coffee (eradicated in the 1970's for
climatic and disease reasons) as an economically viable, and soil-conservation relevant, altemative crop
for the north and north-west areas of the State. The component also developed zero-tillage planters for
animal traction, deep ripping implements for small tractors, and a functional, small-farmer grain-silo
model, which are all now being commercially produced by local manufacturers. Other contributions
included the identification of soil erosiveness and other parameters for microcatchment planning.
13.   As a result of changes in the State's staffing policies, IAPAR was unable to recruit the
incremental staff envisaged in the SAR and, conversely, lost a significant number of researchers,
particularly during the initial implementation years. As a consequence, research activities had to be



-5 -
reviewed and readjusted accordingly, in 1991 and during mid-tern review. Emphasis was put on high-
priority themes and on the continuity of ongoing experiments considered relevant to the project's
technical strategy. The 70 research projects financed under the component, involving about 400
experiments in many parts of the state, generated useful technologies successfully transferred to the
extension service and the farmers.
14.   IAPAR also prepared the project's Technical Manual (TM) which established the Project's
technological base and was used for the training of project extensionists. In subsequent editions,
research results were incorporated into the TM, and transferred to the extensionists and farmers
through training events for which the 16 IAPAR Training Centers and Experimental Stations,
rehabilitated and equipped by the project, were intensively used.
15.   The implementation of the microcatchment monitoring program was also affected by the
staffing problems experienced by LAPAR, but nevertheless generated substantial information on project
impact, which was complemented by relevant indicators extracted from statistical data at the municipal
level. The component's final costs were US$21.6 million (92% of SAR estimates; 109% of the revised
budget).
16.   Extension Services. The main objectives of the component were project promotion,
microcatchment planning, and technical assistance to farmers. The executing agency was EMATER;
assisted by the municipalities, cooperatives, private technical assistance both individuals and firms.
EMATER was directly responsible for local coordination; preparation of microcatchment and
individual farm plans; assistance to group activities; suppliers and farmers and technical assistance
monitoring.
17.   The negative impact of hyperinflation on EMATER's salaries caused a high turnover of
project-recruited extensionists in the initial implementation phase, partially compensated by staff
redeployment. The number of EMATER extensionists averaged only 76% of the SAR target in the
four initial years but increased to 96% thereafter. The participation of the cooperatives and private
firms was also only 84% of the estimates. This apparent deficit of extensionists was, however,
overcompensated by the originally unforeseen participation of 258 municipal extensionists. As a result,
the average combined public/private extension force working with the project totaled 1,575
extensionists (107% of forecasts). Intensive training on the project's technical and operational strategy,
as well as on relevant technological and methodological aspects, ensured an efficient delivery of
extension services to project beneficiaries.
18.   Despite the initial problems, the implementation performance of the extension component was
highly satisfactory, mainly due to the good professional qualifications of the extensionists, an adequate
training program and efficient coordination, combined with clearly-defined objectives and a technical
strategy supported by a large variety of proven technologies. EMATER agents coordinated the active
participation of municipal, cooperative and private extensionist in land management planning and
implementation activities. Through effective team work, they delivered effective project promotion
campaigns; planned and started work in 2,433 microcatchments (159% of forecasts), reaching about
214,000 farmers (130% of estimates), of which about 95,000 were direct beneficiaries; prepared about
60,000 individual farm plans and the related individual and collective applications for the Soil
Conservation Fund; trained and assisted farmers in implementing the recommended land management



- 6 -
technologies; designed road realignment projects and monitored their implementation; and maintained
adequate linkage with research.
19.   The planning unit for Land Management and Soil Conservation programs was the
microcatchment. Farmers within microcatchments were encouraged to organize Commissions which,
together with the extensionists and in consultation with the rest of the community, identified priority
problems of their microcatchments and participated in the subsequent planning. This included zoning,
realigning feeder roads, defining collective erosion and pollution control investments, identifying
groups of farmers for the collective implementation of activities supported by the Soil Conservation
Fund, and motivating all farmers to implement on-farm land management activities benefiting the
entire area of the microcatchment. Individual farm plans (PIPs) defined on-farm improvements and
were a basic condition for individual farmers and groups to be eligible for the support of the Soil
Conservation Fund. The Microcatchment Commissions were represented at the Municipal
Microcatchment Commission (CMMIH), which were responsible for selecting the microcatchment to
be assisted by the project and approving the investment priorities at the municipal level. Regional and
State Commissions screened the proposed development plans.
20.   The main technologies introduced by the extensionists, aiming at reconciling land use with soil
suitability, included: soil preparation practices, replacing conventional disking by deep ripping,
minimum tillage and zero tillage; soil fertility, through liming and adequate fertilization; improved soil
structure through green manuring and the use of animal manure; increased soil cover, through crop
rotation and the introduction of tree crops, agro-forestry, improved varieties, reduced crop spacing,
mulching, minimum and zero-tillage, and integrated pest and weed control; improved pastures and
pasture management; and reforestation. Excess water runoff was controlled through the construction
of different types of terraces and vegetative barriers adapted to the local soil and topography conditions
and consistent with the roads' drainage systems. Collective water supply structures, toxic waste
deposits, liquid manure tanks, and conservation reforestation along water courses contributed to
reduced pollution and improved environmental conditions.
21.   Final total costs of the component were US$41.0 million (149% % of SAR estimates; 144% of
the revised budget). The higher than estimated costs of this component, composed essentially of
salaries, resulted from the higher value of the local currency in relation to the dollar, ensuing from the
impact of the Piano Real after 1994.
22.   Soil Conservation and Pollution Control Fund. The objective of the Fund was to provide
financial support for the adoption of technologies of individual or collective interest, aiming at the
effective implementation of the project's technical strategy. The component had three support
modalities: (i) technologies of collective interest with no direct economic return; (ii) technologies of
individual and collective interest with no direct economic return; and (iii) technologies of individual and
collective interest with long-term return. The Operational Manual established strict norms with respect
to the type of farmers and investments eligible for support from the Fund, incentive levels and
implementation procedures.
23.   The Fund was established at Loan effectiveness, in June 1989, and operated effectively
throughout the life of the project, except for two interruptions, due to changes of the executing agency:
(i) from January-July, 1991 (transfer to BANESTADO due to closure of BADEP); and (ii) from



-7 -
January-June, 1995 (transferred from BANESTADO to CODAPAR). These changes, combined with
funding difficulties which occasionally delayed reimbursements for purchases pre-paid by the farmers,
impeded the full attainment of the targets included in the SAR and led to the reduction of the Fund's
budget, at mid-term, from US$25.1 million to US$18.9 million as a result of the Mid-Term Review.
Actual total disbursements were US$17.6 million (93% of the revised budget).
24.   In spite of the Fund's modest relative importance (9.4% of total disbursement), this component
played a major role in overall project implementation. The incentives provided by the Fund permitted
the concentrated application of recommended practices in microcatchments in individual farms, which
became demonstration and dissemination mechanisms. In total, the Fund benefited about 36,300
producers individually and 65,000 families with incentives for collective investments. The Fund
contributed to the organization of 5,000 farmers' groups for the collective purchase and management
of recommended equipment and the implementation of land management practices. In many cases,
these groups evolved into associations and expanded their scope to include post harvest and marketing
activities. The Fund contributed also to grant objectivity and importance to the Municipal
Commissions, as these had to decide on Fund allocation priorities. Fund investments stimulated
competition among microcatchments and municipalities, mobilizing the communities to demand action
where project performance was deficient, and promoted the establishment of partnerships between the
state, municipalities and producers.
25.   Fund incentives supported the implementation of practices aimed at controlling runoff,
increasing soil cover, improving infiltration, purchasing equipment to improve soil and water
management, and implementing anti-pollution works. The Fund supported joint introduction of stone
terracing (through mechanized stone-ridging), animal-traction zero tillage, and animal drawn manure
spreaders.
26.   Rural Roads Realignment. Road improvement was an important complementary activity of
the land management technical strategy. Its objective, as party of the microcatchment plan, was to
control water run-off aimed at neutralizing on-road erosion and as well as erosion affecting adjacent
lands caused by inadquate road design and/or construction. The original global target was to improve
13,732 km of roads, reduced to 11,111 km at the Mid-Term Review of the project.
27.   The component had a slow start-up, gained momentum in the third year of the project, and
ended up being one of the most successfully implemented activities. Realignment plans were mainly
prepared by the extensionists approved by the CMMHI and executed by contractors. The State Roads
Department (DER-PR) controlled the technical quality of the work, handled the bidding processes,
supervised implementation and approved the completed works.
28.   The implementation experience showed that most works required considerable more earth
moving, drainage works and regravelling than envisaged in the SAR, given that feeder roads in the
priority areas were usually in-built; in these cases, simple surface reshaping works would have
worsened run-off hazards rather than reducing them. To follow the technical strategy's principle that
roads needed to be integrated in the overall microcatchment management plan, considerable earth
movement was required to raise the road level above the surrounding land surface. Pertinent target
adjustments were introduced at mid-term, together with the necessary fund reallocation that increased
the component's costs by about 55%.



-8 -
29.   In mid-1996, a decentralized scheme for road construction was adopted on a pilot basis, aimed
at accelerating execution and fully achieving the final target before the project closing date. Under a
SEAB-municipalities partnership scheme, the responsibility for bidding and contracting of works was
transferred to the municipalities, while overall responsibility remained with SEAB through AAS, and
quality control with DER At completion, a total of 11,143 km (slightly above 100% of estimates) had
been improved, which included 10,027 km under the original DER-administered modality and 1,115
km under the municipality-managed scheme. Final costs were US$53.8 million (148% of SAR
estimates and 96% of revised estimates). A detail review of on the rural road component is provided in
Annex 1.
30.   Lime Distribution Facilities. The objective of this component was to improve the
distribution of lime in the state, through the construction and operation of five 22,000 ton-capacity
railroad terminals one for loading, in the quarry zone near Curitiba, and four regional unloading
terminals, in the most important agricultural areas. By facilitating the access to lime, this component
was expected to have a significant impact on crop yields and soil conservation.
31.   Problems related to the purchase of suitable land for the terminals, combined with a prolonged
international bidding process, contributed to delayed start-up. The loading facility and three unloading
terminals were constructed by CODAPAR (formerly CAFE do Parana) and handed over to regional
cooperatives for operation. As agreed at appraisal RFFSA transported the lime at reduced tariffs. The
fifth terminal (Apucarana) was not built. Instead, a total of 38 municipal road unloading terminals with
an individual capacity of 10,000 tons, were constructed with Bank agreement, thus expanding the lime
distribution network. These were co-financed by the municipalities which provided the land and labor,
while the project financed the construction materials and equipment. The management of several of
these road terminals was given to local cooperatives or farmer associations.
32.   Lime distribution gained momentum in 1993 when 250,000 tons were transported through the
network. In 1995, when the integrated railroad-municipal terminals network became fully operational,
RFFSA was privatized (privatization was completed in early 1997) and stopped granting preferential
rates, significantly raising the final costs of lime at the unloading terminals (from US$14/ton in 1993 to
US$24/ton in 1996). Simultaneously, encouraged by an increase in demand, the lime companies
expanded their quarries and loading facilities and motivated soybean truckers to transport lime to the
agricultural areas at reduced return-freight costs, directly to the farms. This made the railroad scheme
non-competitive, discouraged the cooperatives, and caused the eventual suspension of distribution
activities. While some municipal terminals are still used for lime storage and distribution (supplied by
truckers directly from the quarries), many of them are being used for other purposes due to the high
financial costs of maintaining stocks. The Government is currently analyzing various alternatives for
utilization of the infrastructure within the agricultural sector. Despite these shortcomings, the
component indirectly contributed to the setting-up of a low-cost private distribution scheme and to
increase overall lime consumption from 1.6 million tons before the project to the present 3.2 million
tons. The total cost of the component was US$6.2 million (102% of SAR estimates; 104% of revised
budget).
33.   Forestry Development. As an important element of improved land management, this
component was aimed at: (i) developing conservation and commercial forestry in the microcatchments



-9 -
to prevent soil erosion and to reduce pressure on the remaining areas under native forests, through the
distribution of seeds and seedlings; (ii) improving state parks and forest reserves protection and
management; and (iii) starting conservation activities for the Parana section of the Serra do Mar. The
component would finance the construction of infrastructure, recruitment and training of personnel, and
the preparation of studies. The executing agency would be the Land, Cartography and Forests Institute
(ITCF).
34.   Implementation difficulties, derived principally from institutional problems, within ITCF
considerably affected the performance of this component. GOP's structural adjustment policy which
included the integration of ITCF with the State Water Resources and Environment Agency
(SURHEMA) to form the State Environmental Institute (LAP) and its transfer from SEAB to the
Secretariat of the Environment, caused an important loss of personnel and affected the institute's
implementation capacity.
35.   The implementation of the commercial and conservation reforestation subcomponent was
additionally affected by the lower than expected interest of farmers for reforestation, as most of the
lands are highly suitable for more profitable annual crops. This was compounded by farmers' lack of
experience with reforestation and their generally incipient perception of the advantages of long-term
investments, which LAP (for lack of staff) and the extensionists (for lack of specific training) failed to
improve. To keep the subcomponent's scope within a realistic reach, original targets were reduced at
mid-term to 32% of the SAR estimates for seedlings and to 40% of the Bracatinga program. The
revised targets were achieved at 95% average (103% for the native species, 89% for the commercial
species, 108% for erva mate seedlings, and 86% for Bracatinga seed distribution).
36.   The implementation of the parks and reserves subcomponent was satifactory and resulted in the
preparation of comprehensive management plans for 12 state parks and reserves, as opposed to the
seven plans envisaged in the SAR. The revised target of planting 188 ha in state reserves was fully
achieved. Furthernore, the Serra do Mar subcomponent satisfactorily achieved the objective targets.
The foreseen natural resources inventories for the Marumbi Park area (67,000 ha) as well as mapping
and geomorphologic surveys in the extended park area (142,000 ha) were also completed. Overall, the
management plan of the Marumbi Park is being satisfactorily carried out. Administration facilities and
a museum, well-maintained tracks and mountaineering routes, a good professional staff, guides and a
well-trained environmental police are contributing to the ecological education of an increasing number
of visitors. The total costs of the component were US$12.6 million (83% of SAR estimates; 122% of
revised budget). Increased costs were mainly derived from increased salaries resulting from the
exchange rate policy introduced by the Plano Real.
37.   Soil Use Monitoring. This component was intended to support: (a) the establishment of a
land-use monitoring system by ITCF with the help of remote sensing and field data; (b) a data base and
mapping system to be established by the State Institute for Economic and Social Development
(IPARDES) as a planning tool for future land-use management; (c) a land-use inspection service by
SEAB's Sanitary Control Department (DEFIS) to ensure: (i) enforcement of the state's soil use law;
(ii) the correct use of the incentives provided by the Soil Conservation Fund incentives; and (iii) the
quality of public and privately produced seeds and seedlings.



- 10-
38.   The land-use monitoring system, for which a remote sensing program had been previously set
up under an FAO project, was not implemented, mainly due to ITCF/IAP's institutional difficulties.
However, the geoprocessing equipment financed by the project was useful for the production of the
thematic maps (at state, watershed, and microcatchment levels), which was fully accomplished. The
soil use control subcomponent was fully implemented and effective by: (i) helping the project to
correct irregularities in the use of Soil Conservation Fund derived from initial difficulties with the
interpretation of the Operational Manual and to control the quality of Fund-supported contractor
services; and (ii) contributing, through the soil law enforcement, to convince reluctant farmers to join
the microcatchment development plans. The component was an effective support to the extension
work and helped to grant sustainability to the project's technical strategy. The total costs of the
component were US$4.3 million (72% of SAR estimates; 95% of revised budget).
39.   Training. This component was fundamental in providing extensionists and farmers the
knowledge and capacity to plan and implement the technical strategy of the project. It also contributed
to raise awareness of the technical requirements and principles of soil conservation among community
representatives, politicians and the general public. An Operational Manual on procedures of the Soil
Conservation Fund and a Technical Manual on principles to be used in project execution, both updated
and expanded during implementation, were prepared for the use of technicians and farmers. A
substantial number of pre-service and updating courses, seminars, study tours and field days,
organized by LAPAR and EMATER, were carried out during project implementation. The
component's total costs were US$2.4 million (44% of SAR estimates; 82% of revised budget). The
lower than foreseen costs resulted from savings made on the cost of trainers, as the majority of the
courses were given by staff of IAPAR and EMATER
40.   Project Management and Monitoring. The Project was administered by a Project
Administration Unit (AAS) within SEAB, through a network of 19 existing Regional Offices (NRs) of
SEAB. AAS efficiently coordinated and monitored the activities of the various executing agencies and
was directly responsible for the implementation of the Soil Conservation Fund and Training
components. In addition, AAS coordinated the preparation of baseline studies, mid-term review and
terms of reference for the ex-post evaluations, prepared by IPARDES. The performance of AAS was
highly satisfactory. Its assistance to Bank supervision missions, compliance with reporting
requirements and relations with State authorities as well as with the various project executing agencies
were always rated highly. Its financial management and inter-institutional coordination was efficient,
and its proposals for target readjustments and fund reallocations during implementation were
opportune and well supported. The final cost was US$2.3 million (53% of the SAR estimates; 110%
of the revised budget), representing less than 1.5% of total project costs.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
41.   The project's outreach in terms of geographical area and number of farmers assisted, the
relatively high adoption rates of the recommended technologies and the positive results achieved,
combined with the organizational structure which it helped to set up and which continues to exist after
project completion, are indicative of a clearly sustainable post-project scenario. In particular, the
commitment of the municipalities and the dynamism of the farmers' commissions created under the
project seem to ensure a sustainable follow-up. An important indication of sustainability is that



- 11 -
EMATER has adopted the project's technical strategy and microcatchment approach state-wide. In
addition, the recently approved Bank-assisted follow-up project (Poverty Alleviation and Natural
Resources Management Project, Loan 4060-BR), aimed at ensuring continuity of the work started by
the project with priority being given to the most depressed areas of the State, confirms the GOP's
interest in a sustainable post project development.
F. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
42.   The Bank's performance was satisfactory in all the phases of the project cycle. The Bank
provided the State with sound backup in refining a conceptually-sound local initiative into a well-
defined project proposal. The Bank correctly assessed the State Government's commitment to the
project. The assessment of project risks was also accurate; as predicted, most implementation
difficulties were related to institutional and funding problems. The project's strategy and design,
combined with good management assisted by opportune Bank backup during implementation,
minimized these risks. Jointly with staff from FAO/CP, the Bank's systematic supervision scheme of
at least two missions per year, combined with short follow-up missions, provided timely technical and
administrative support which contributed to effective implementation and facilitated the overcoming of
emerging problems. Complementary to the regular supervision activities, in the recent years the
project team engaged in a series of initiatives aimed at disseminating the valuable experience and
lessons learned generated by the project, which is considered as "Best Practice" within the Bank. In
addition to presentations related to the project in seminars and technical events, a detailed publication
summarizing project achievements was prepared as part of the Outreach Program for 1997 of the
Brazil Department.
G. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
43.   Preparation. The performance of SEAB's Preparation Team was highly satisfactory. With
limited Bank assistance, and highly responsive to Bank recommendations, the team managed to
prepare a sound project document in a relatively short time.
44.   Implementation. GOP commitment and support to the project was strong from start-up to
completion. AAS was a highly qualified, competent management unit. Thanks to its skillful inter-
institutional coordination, its ability to minimize the negative effects of occasional funding difficulties
and its efficient financial administration, the project had a smooth and stable implementation
performance. AAS detected early emerging problems and discussed them openly with the Bank for
adequate solutions. AAS submitted the required quarterly and annual reports, audits, the Mid-Term
Review and the Borrower's Completion Report according to schedule, and made efforts to comply
with all legal covenants. The executing agencies generally showed a good performance, in particular
EMATER, responsible for the extension component. The participation of the municipalities surpassed
expectations. Implementation deficiencies caused by some institutional problems have not affected the
achievement of the project's central objectives.
45.   Legal Covenant Compliance and Audits. Overall, the Borrower satisfactorily complied with
all legal covenants included in the Loan Agreement. Despite the occasionally reduced counterpart



- 12-
funding flow, the Loan was fully disbursed and the project was completed by the scheduled closing
date. Audits were conducted by the State's Accounts Tribunal. Reports with detailed information on
project accounts, financial statements and SOE were submitted to the Bank annually on a timely basis.
The occasional qualified statements included in the audit reports were satisfactorily clarified and/or
resolved by the Borrower.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
46.   The Project is rated Highly Satisfactory because it achieved its main objectives and
demonstrated that natural resources degradation is quickly reversible with the implementation of an
adequate technical strategy. Project targets, in terms of area and number of farmers, were surpassed.
Together with the sustainable rehabilitation of their soil and water resources, beneficiary farmers
achieved the expected yield increases and economic gains and contributed to increased production and
revenues at state level. Feeder roads were integrated in the overall microcatchment land management
plans. Although the railroad distribution scheme established by the Project ended up being non-
competitive, lime is now accessible state-wide. Modem, sustainable land management technologies
were developed and adopted, replacing conventional practices that frequently contributed to worsening
soil erosion and water pollution. The institutional set-up, involving state agencies, municipalities and
farmers' organizations in participatory planning and project implementation, combined with general
awareness on natural resources management promoted by the project, are a guarantee of Project
sustainability. As the first Bank-supported Land Management Project in Brazil, the project opened the
way to similar operations in other Brazilian states (similar projects are currently being implemented in
Santa Catarina, Sao Paulo and Rio Grande do Sul), and developed a technical and institutional strategy
with potential application in other parts of the world.
I. FUTURE OPERATION OF THE PROJECT
47.   Based on the highly successful experience of the Land Management I Project, the Government
of Parana requested the Bank's participation in a follow-up project. It was agreed that this project
would consolidate and expand the results obtained by the Land Management I Project, incorporating an
additional strategic element to address rural poverty. Project preparation was initiated in mid-1995,
benefiting from overlapping with the final implementation phase of the ongoing project. Appraisal was
completed in March 1996, and the Board approved the Natural Resources Management and Rural
Poverty Alleviation Project in June 1996. Although Loan signature was delayed due to difficulties
experienced in obtaining approval by the Federal Senate, the state utilized its own resources to initiate
project activities and the project is now under satisfactory implementation. With poverty alleviation as
its central objective, the new project is expected to extend the experience built up under the Land
Management I Project to the poorest areas of the state. The target is to increase incomes of about
255,000 rural poor and small farm families by supporting the implementation of community-demanded
investment sub-projects, while improving natural resources management in approximately 8.1 million
ha.



- 13 -
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
48.   The key lessons learned from this project, most of which confirm wider Bank experience, are:
A.    Project Management
The Project experience showed that a skillful unit, with the appropriate political support and capable
of establishing and maintaining a dialogue with the various executing agencies, is essential to successful
implementation. Considering that inter-institutional coordination is usually problematic, the smooth
implementation, under often difficult institutional and funding conditions, reflects well on the performance of
the Project Management Unit (AAS). The use of microcatchments as planning units was a key to success. It
granted viability to conservation measures that produced very lihtle impact in individual farms, and permitted
the integration of roads and water courses in a effectual overall conservation scheme. Furthermore, this
planing approach showed the inter-dependence of all farm units within a microcatchment and contributed to
approach small and large farmers as complementary elements of a single expanded farming system.
Furthermore, the project-promoted enforcement of the soil-use law contributed to the integration of large
farmers, not assisted by the project, in the overall microcatchment development scheme.
B.    Political Support
Sustained political support was important for the successful implementation of the project. The
project was considered a priority by all three administrations governing the state during the project period.
The permanence of the same Secretary of Agriculture from preparation through implementation contributed
greatly to the regular flow of funds, with only short spells reflecting occasional state budgetary difficulties.
The effective integration of project activities with the various SEAB-promoted rural development programs in
one single coordinated package contributed to an enhanced project impact.
C.    Extension Services
Dynamic, well-trained extensionists mobilized the existing positive factors and created conditions to
overcome and reverse negative factors. They motivated authorities, farmers and the public in general; helped
farmers to identify problems and implement solutions; and involved the private sector in project execution.
Through intensive training of private extensionists and of EMATER agents who later opted for the private
sector, the project contributed to increased awareness of improved land management techniques among
professionals working those farmers not assisted by the project.
D.    Technical Strategy
Pre-existing knowledge of the state's potential and land management problems, resulting from
studies and accumulated extension experience over the previous two decades, coupled with the existence of
relevant technologies developed by research, pernitted the formulation of a clear technical strategy and its
translation into effective land management practices that were vital for project viability. The decision to
establish a fimd to provide financial incentives for the adoption of soil conservation and pollution control
practices proved to be a key instrument for the implementation of the technical strategy. It motivated the



-14-
organization of groups and encouraged farmers to invest in collective and individual soil conservation
activities and equipment that were fundamental for improved land management.
E.    Participation
Favorable, homogeneous soil and overall physical conditions, compounded by homogenous land
tenure and property design pattems, characteristic of the basalt areas of the north and west, favored the
understanding of the microcatchment as a unit, the identification of common problems and the planning and
implementation of actions. Microcatchment-planned practices, such as terracing, contributed to participatory
action among project beneficiaries as they crossed farm boundaries, eliminating fences and re-flling boundary
gullies. In addition to blocking runoff the terraces contributed to expanding the area under cultivation and
provided extensionists the hook for the introduction of the full package of improved soil management
practices promoted by the project
F.    Road Improvement
Roads provided extensionists the core-theme around which all the other land management problems
and solutions were discussed in common, and was therefore a major factor of farmers' organization. Road
improvement was also decisive for motivating the support of local governments to the project. The fact that
road-realignment designs were prepared by the extensionist ensured that roads became adequately integrated
in the overall microcatchment land management plan as established in the technical strategy, and contributed
to make the extension agents respected and well known by the community. Although implemented on a pilot
basis during the last year of project implementation, the positive experience with the SEAB-municipalities
partnership modality for road works indicates that decentralized construction schemes, in the presence of
sound monitoring mechanisms, can contribute to accelerated implementation.



- 15 -
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives
Objectives             Substantial    Partial     Negligible      Not
Applicable
Macro policies                                  _            _                 X
Sector Policies                                 _            _____             X
Financial Objectives                                                           X
Institutional Development              X
Physical Objectives                    X
Poverty Reduction                                                              X
Farmers' Revenues Increase             X X
Other Social Objectives                                      _                 X
Environmental Objectives               X
Public Sector Management           _                                           X
Private Sector Development                           X
B. Project Sustainability
Likely           |          Unlikely                    Uncertain
C. Bank Performance
Rating          Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                 X
Preparation                    X
Appraisal                      X
Supervision                    X
C. Borrower Performance
Rating          Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                                       X
Preparation                    X
Appraisal                      X
Supervision                    X



- 16 -
D. Assessment of Outcome
Highly Satisfactory  |    Satisfactory    |   Unsatisfactory    |      Deficient
Table 2. Brazil-Related Bank Loans
Project Title/ Loan No.           Purpose             Date             Status
Approved
Land Management II - S. Catarina Sustainable farming               Effective since 1990;
(Loan 3160-BR)                through adequate soil and   1/30/90  extended by one year to
water management                    30/9/1998.
Land Management III - S.Paulo   similar to the above   10/28/97    Appraised in 1992 and re-
(Loan 4238-BR)                                                     appraised in June 1997
Land Management IV - Mato      Similar to the above                Processing delayed due to
Grosso do Sul                                             -        creditworthiness
._______________ _  _restrictions
National Environmental Project   Strengthen federal and  2/27/90   Follow-up project under
(Loan 3173-BR)                state conservation units             preparation
Parana Rural Poverty Alleviation  Combined Rural Poverty   6/27/96  Effective since March
and Natural Resources         Alleviation and Land                  1998, satisfactory
Management Project            Management                           implementation
(Loan 4060-BR)                 _
Rio Grande do Sul - Rural Poverty Same as above        4/22/97     Effective September
and Natural Resources Project                                       1977, satisfactory
(Loan 4148-BR)                                                     implementation



- 17-
Table 3. Project Timetable
Step in Project Cycle            Date Planned                    Date Actual
Identification                                                           7/1987
Preparation                             10/87-03/88                    10/87-05/88
Appraisal                                June 1988                   06/20-07/06/88
SAR: 12/8/88.
Negotiations                          November 1988                   11/28-12/2/88
Board Presentation                     January 1989                     01/31/89
Loan Signing                           February 1989                    02/15/89
Loan Effectiveness                                                      06/06/89
Loan Closing                             03/31/97                       03/31/97
Project Completion                       03/31/97                       03/31/97
Table 4A. Annual Loan Disbursements Per Year, Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year        Appraisal Estimate           Actual         Actual as % of Estimate
1989                   4.00                   3.00                   75%
1990                   8.60                   2.82                   33%
1991                   9.60                  10.53                  110%
1992                   9.40                   9.69                  103%
1993                   8.60                   9.86                  115%
1994                   8.20                   8.82                  108%
1995                   7.40                   8.95                  113%
1996                   6.20                   2.61                   52%
1997                   1.00                   6.71                  671%
Total                 63.00                  62.99                  100%
Final disbursement                             April 10, 1997
Table 4B. Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year        Appraisal Estimate           Actual         Actual as % of Estimate
1989                   4.00                   3.00                  75%
1990                  12.60                   5.82                   46%
1991                  22.20                  16.35                   74%
1992                  31.60                  26,04                   82%
1993                  40.20                  35.90                   89%
1994                  48.40                  44.72                   92%
1995                  55.80                  53.67                   96%
1996                  62.00                  56.28                   91%
1997                  63.00                  62.99                  100%
Final disbursement                             April 10, 1997



- 18-
Table 4. C Project Final Costs by Component and by Year
(US$ 000)
Total as a
10% of
Component          1989     1990    1991    1992  1__3  1994    1995    199C                  1997  Total     SAR
Estimates
Agricultural Research    1,668    2,090    2,716    3,014    2,355    2,873    3,453    3,164    307    21,640      118%
Extension                1,081    3,013    2,735    4,757    4,567    6,418    8,908    8,672    889    41,040      166%
Soil Conservation Fund   1,560    3,755    2,656    3,806    1,484    2,262    351    1,754      -      17,628      70%
Rural Road Realignment     572    2,316    2,873    8,074    8,323    9,117    5,244    7,346    9,936    53,801    148%
Railroad Lime Terminals    -         14    3,986      20       -       599     298    1,238           1  6,155      102%
Forestry Development     1,215    1,756    2,561     613      748    1,172   2,411    2,069       44    12,589      95%
Soil Use Monitoring        696      396     324      468      475      547     746      593       81     4,326      88%
Project Management         132      280     267      254      191      257     404      421       96     2,302      55%
Training                   148      193     550      623      350      194      40      261        1     2,360      44%
Total                    7,072    13,813   18,668   21,629   18,493   23,439   21,855   25,518   11,354 1 161,841  117%



- 19-
Table 5.      Performance Indicators
Target
Unit                                      Actual       % of Revised
_______________________             ~T arget
SAR       Revised at MTR
Project Area
Microcatchments assisted              un.       2,100           2,100           2.433           159%
Adaptive Research
a) Pilot Microcatchments monitored    un.         5               5               5             100%
b) Trials on:
- Crop nutrition, alternative cultivation    un.  253            308             255            83%
practices, mechanisation, and weed and
pest control
- Fruit crops husbandry               un.        132             149             122            82%
- Forest husbandry                    un.         86              38              25            66%
c) Green manure basic seeds           ha         700             100             100            100%
Rural Extension
Farmers assisted                      un.      165,500         165,500         214,000          293%
Incremental Extensionists
- EMATER-PR                           un.        333            333              292            88%
- Co-operatives                       un.        276            276              233            84%
- Private Firms                       un.        480            480              405            84%
- Municipalities                      un.         -                              258              -
Total Incremental Extensionists       un.       1,089           1,089           1,188           109%
Total EMATER Project-Extensionists    un.        720            720              679            94%
Total Project Extensiomits            un.       1,476           1,476           1,575           107%
EMATERofrices constructed             un.        75              145             218            150%
- Regional                            un.         8               -               -               -
- Local                               un.        67              145             218            150%
Soil Conservation Fund
Microcatchment plans              J   un.  ]   1800   ]         2,100       T   2,100   J       100%
Individual farmn plans (PIPs)     |   un.  j    -    |            -         T   60,000   T
a) Collectively owned subprojects
- Specific farm equipment             un.       4,701           5,250           5,413           103%



- 20 -
Target
Unit                                      Actual       % of Revised
Target
SAR       Revised at MTR
- Cattle water supply                 un.        290             150             113            75%
- Agrochemical minng points           un.       2,647           1,500           1,023           68%
b) Individually owned subprojects
- Soil cons. works (Systems A, B, C, D)  ha    905,200         725,500         342,380          47%
- G.reen manure seeds                  t        1,016           1,016            980            96%
- Planting mat. for commercial forestry:
. Bracaatinga                        ha      23,300           9,625           8,269            86%
. Eucalyptus, pine                  ha       54,300          18,250           16,267          89%
- Fencing                             km        1400            400              293            73%
- Manure tanks                        un.       2300            500              888            178%
Road realignment                      kmn      13,732          11,688           11,142          95%
Lime distribution facilities
- Loading terminal (construction)     un.         1               I               1             100%
- Lime loaded                          t      7,230,000       7,230,000        631,273           9%
- Unloading terninals (construction)  un.        4               3                3             100%
- Lime distributed                     t      5,740,000       5,740,000        631,273          11%
- Road terminals (construction)                                  38              38             100%
Forestry Development and Environmental Studies
a) Conservation and commercial forestry
- Native species seedlings          million     32.8            19.5            20.0            103%
Eucalyptus/pine seedlings          million    163.0           43.8             39.0            89%
- Erva mate seedlings               million     23.5             7.7             8.3            108%
Bracatinga seeds                     t         19.0            7.7             6.6             86%
b) Conservation Reforestation
- in microcatchrnents             [1000 ha T   14.5   T         14.5             15.6    |      108%
- inreserves                      [   ha   |  2,185   |          0                0               -
c) Parks & Forest Reserves
- Management plans                    un.         7              14              10             71%
- Fencing                             km         195             0                0               -
- Fire control tower                  un.         5              0                0               -
- Fauna reserve/breeding centre       un.         3              3                3             100%
d) Serra do Mar Marumbi Area:
- Cadastral survey                    ha       15,000            0                0 
- Fencing                             km    |   25                -         |    25             100%
- Inventories                         ha       67,000          67,000          67,000           100%



-21 -
I .  .       Target
Unit                                       Actual       % of Revised
X                            ~~~~~~~~~Target
SAR       Revised at MTR
Outside Marumbi Area:
- Inventories                      [   ha         17,300           0                0 
- Mapping                              ha       100,000          142,000 0       142,000  j        100%
Land Use Monitoring & Control
a) Land use monitoring:
- Remote sensing equipment             set         I               1                1              100%
-Thematic maps:
. Selected watershed (1:50,000)      un.         10              10               10             100%
.Various maps (1:100,000)            un.         11              11               11             100% 0
. Socio-economic maps                un.         1               **               **              **
. Land use recommendation map        un.         1                1                1             100%
- Sample watershed monitoring
. Evaluation                         un.         32              *                **              **
b) Land Use Control
- Field supervision
Soil Conservation Fund          |   un.        17,100          17,150            8,489           49%
State law enforcement controls  |    un.       23,100          23,170           11,774           51%
Nurseries                         |  un.        8,700           7,700            6,671            87%
,Training
- Operational manual
Editions                              us.        3                3                5     ]       167%
Copies                            r  us.   |              -        |            10,000             -
- Technical manual
Editions                          |u.             1               1                2             200%
Copies                               un.                          -             21,000             -
-  30-day courses for field staff and  course x   2x5x 25                          4x25            100%
Supervisors                           trainee
- 5-day specific courses for extensionists  course x    142x25   90x25            64x25            71%
trainee
- Foreign consulting services         man-         30              30               0               0%
month
- Fellowships                          un.         35              35               0               0%
- Studytourabroad                      un.         1 5             35               1 7            49%
- 2-day Seminar for field staff       Semx        7x50           15x50        | Ox100              133%
trainee



- 22 -
Target
unit                                     Actual       % of Revised
________  ______________            ~Target
SAR       Revised at MTR
- 3-day Seminar for all project     Sem x      31x58          57x58           40xlO0           121%
technicians                        trainee
- 3-day Seminar for technicians     Scm x      6x300          6x300            2x215           24%
trainee
- 1-day Field tours                 event      1,328           1,328           2,148           162%
- Field demonstrations               event     4,124           4,124            822            20%
- Field meetings                    event      5,508           5,508          27,312          496%



- 23 -
Table 6. Studies Induded in Project
Study        Purpose as defined at       Status          Impact of study
appraisal
12 Park Management Environmental training    Eight Studies    Substantial
Plans               of the public             Completed
Fauna   and   flora                        Inventories within   Substantial
inventories in the Serra  N/A             167,000 ha completed
do Mar                                        as planned
Table 7. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Total Costs
(US$ Million)
Item               Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Total State +Bank        118.6      19.7     138.3     131.4     19.7      151.1
State only                10.8       -        10.8      10.8       -        10.8
Total Costs              119.4      19.7     149.1     142.2     19.7      161.9
Loan                      43.3      19.7      63.0      43.3     19.7       63.0
Loan Disbursed             -         -      _                               63.0
Canceled                                                 0         0         0
B. Project Financing
.(US$ Million)
Source             Appraisal Estimate                     Actual
Local          Foreign           Local          Foreign
Bank             43.3            19.7             43.3             19.7
State           75.3       __98.9                            _
Total           118.6            19.7             142.2            19.7



-24 -
Table 8. Status of Legal Covenants
Agree   Section   Covenant  Present   Original    Revised                        Description of covenant                                Comments
ment                 type      status   fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
IA      3.01(a)      4          C                              Borrower to provide promptly as needed funds for the project
IA      3.01(b)      4         CD                              Provide the resources necessary to enable the Executing Partial delays in procurement of vehicles have
Agencies to acquire, timely, the foreseen vehicles, electronic been  resolved  by  reallocating  existing
and computer equipment.                                 vehicles in the Executing Agencies.
IA     3.01(c)        5                                        Enter into contractual agreements with each of the Executing
Agencies.
IA     3.02(a)        5         C                              Establish and maintain a coordinating committee through the
contractual arrangement with EMATER-PR, OCEPAR and
APEPA for the purpose of defining and coordinating, etc.
IA     3.02(b)        9         C       07/31/89               Prepare and furnish the Technical Manual to the Bank for Complied with before end-June 1989. Last
comments, not later than July 31, 1989, publish it promptly and revision issued in November 1994.
ensure that its provisions are followed.
IA     3.03.(a)       5                                        Carry out Part C of the Project in accordance with the
________ _______yprocedures set forth in the Operational Manual, etc.
LA     3.03(b)       10         C                              AU  to  enter into  contracts  to  ensure  the  adequate All terms and conditions of the Operational
implementation of each approved microcatchment subproject, Manual are being observed.
etc. following the terms and conditions prescribed in the
Operational Manual.
IA     3.04(a)        5         C                              Prior to commencing works under Part D of the Project, enter
into agreement with Municipalities for the maintenance of road
sections to be improved.
LA     3.04(b)        5         C                              Furnish to the Bank draft models of the contracts to be entered
into pursuant to Section 3.05 and for the procurement of erosion
control works under Part D.
IA      3.05(i)       5         C                              Furnish to the Bank evidence of land ownership for the Complied with for four terminals. The fifth
establishment of the facilities under Part E.           was replaced by a system  of rural roads
terminals.
IA     3.05(ii)       5        CP                              Furnish to the Bank detailed engineering designs and then enter See 3.05(i) above.
I____    _________    ________    _______    __________    __________   not later than December 31, 1989 into a contract with RFFSA.
LA      3.06(i)       5         C       07/31/89               Furnish to the Bank TORs for studies and inventories under Part



- 25 -
F6(a) not later than 7/31/89.
LA     3.06(ii)      5         C      06/30/90               Furnish to the Bank TORs for studies and inventories under Part Complied with ahead of time in January
._______                            F6(b) not later than 6/30/90.                          1990.
LA    3.07(aXi)      9        CD      07/31/89               Furnish to the Bank not later than 7/31/89 Project Baseline Complied with in April 1990.
Evaluation Report.
LA    3.07(aXii)     9         C                             Furnish to the Bank quarterly progress reports not later than two No delays.
months after the end of each quarter.
IA    3.07(aXiii)    9         C                             Furnish to the Bank not later than 8/15 each year the draft work
program for the following year.
LA   3.07(aXivX      9        CD                             Furnish to the Bank not later than March 31 of each year The first report due was received one year
1)                                                 starting in 1991, an evaluation by the AU of CAFE do PR's late. Complied with since 1992.
financial performance in the operation of each of the terminals
under Part E.
LA     3.07(a)       9        CD                             Funiish to the Bank, no later than March 31 in each year, There were delays in 1990, 1991 and 1992.
(ivX2)                                                starting in 1990, an evaluation of the progress achieved under Complied with since then.
Part C of the Project.
LA    3.07.(aXv)     9        CD       07/31/93              Furnish to the Bank not later than 7/31/93 a midterm evaluation The mid-term  evaluation was received in
report.                                                August 1993.
LA   3.07(a)Xvi)     9        CD       03/31/97              Furnish to the Bank not later than 3/31/97 the Project Ex-Post Currently under preparation, TOR discussed
Evaluation Report.                                     with Completion Mission
LA      3.08         5         C                             Procurement of goods, works and services for the Project shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the LA.
LA     4.01(a)       1         C                             Maintain separate records and accounts for the Project.
LA    4.01(bXi)      I         C                             Have such separate records and accounts including those for the
Special Account, audited each fiscal year by independent
auditors.
LA   4.01.(bXii)     I         C                             Furnish to the Bank audit reports not later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year.
LA      4.01         1         C                              Maintain, retain and include in the annual audit all records and
accounts for all expenditures for which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of SOEs.
LA     6.01(b)       5        CD                              Enter into contractual agreement with each of the Executing
_  Agencies in compliance with Section 3.01



- 26 -
Table 9. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                     Actual
Staff                      Staff         US$
Weeks   US$    Weeks
Preparation                             n/a           n/a            73.4          63.7
Appraisal                               n/a           n/a             16.8         27.5
Board-Effectiveness                     n/a           n/a              2.3           5.1
Supervision                             n/a           n/a           126.6         295.7
Completion                              n/a           n/a            10.6          46.1
Total                                   n/a           n/a           220.0         508.0
Table 10. Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Ratzng
Stage of     Month/Year    Number of   Days In Field    Staff Sklls    Implementation   Development    Problems
Project Cycle                   Persons                                                      ObJectives
Through                         2                            A,E
Appraisal        6/28           2                            A,E              n/a             n/a           n/a
2                           A,E
Appraisal
through Board       -                                                           n/a             n/a          rn/a
Approval
Supervision      12/89           1                             A               2                1          Funding
I____________  I____________  _____________                 _______________                  Procurem ent
4/90           1                             A               2                1          Funding
I_ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _      I_ _ _ _ _ _ _               I_ I=         _I _ _ _                   Procure nent
10/90           2                           A, B              2               1
4/91           1                             A               2                1          Funding
Institutional
(extinction
__________  __l/91 ____            ____= ____A                                                      BADEP)
__  11/91            1       _                    A               2
____________   4-5/92          1       __  _ _ _ _ _A                       2                1
11/92           2                           A. F              2               1         Istitutional
(Forestry)
Research
5/93           2                           A, AE             2                1
11/93           3                          E, A, A            I               1
5-6/94          2                            E, A            HS              HS
3/95           3                           E, A, A           HS              HS
3/96           2                            A, A             HS              HS
11196           1                            A               HS              HS
1/97           2                            A, A            HS               HS
Completion        6/97           4                         A, A, E, R         HS               HS
A - Agriulturlist
B - Bank Management
AE - Ago-EcoEstog.
E - Economist
F -Forester
R - Roads Engineer



-27 -
ANNEX 1
EROSION CONTROL WORKS ALONG RURAL ROADS
Rural Roads Realignment in Soil Conservation
1.    The Integrated Soil and Water Management Program (PMISA) - a pioneering microcatchment-
based soil management program launched by the Government of Parana in 1983 - identified the poor
planning and construction of feeder roads as a major cause of soil erosion in rural areas. Therefore, the
project included a Rural Roads component aimed at implementing road realignment and soil
conservation works along feeder roads, as part of the land management program in the assisted
microcatchments.
Type of Road Improvement Works and Costs
2.    Based on a sample of 30 microcatchments of the PMISA experience, the SAR assumed that
most works would consist of minor earth movements aimed at reducing shoulder slopes, filling in side
gullies and improving road drainage. As a result, project design included about 11,890 km of low-
traffic, narrow roads (3.50-5.00 m wide) would be realigned without shoulder slope reduction or
regravelling, at an estimated average cost of US$1,380/km (Type 1). In some cases (264 km), while
regravelling would not be warranted, additional earthmoving on the shoulders would increase the
average cost to US$4,480/km (Type 2). An estimated 1,578 km would be realigned and regravelled at
an estimated cost of US$4,990/km (Type 3). The total extension of the road network to be improved
was estimated at about 13,800 km. The works would be complemented by the construction of earth
structures across the roads in basalt areas and flood control tanks in sandy soils. Total costs of the
Roads component, including contingencies, were estimated at US$36.3 million.
Institutional Arrangement
3.    The implementation of the component was coordinated by the Project Unit (AAS) - the same
structure within the Secretariat of Agriculture (SEAB) that had been responsible for the PMISA
program. Although the construction and maintenance of rural roads is a responsibility of the
municipalities, the component, because of its magnitude, received the support of the State Roads
Department (DER-PR). DER's support included the procurement and supervision of project-financed
works. The road sections to be improved were established through a participatory planning exercise
with the farmers of the assisted microcatchments and the municipal Soil Conservation Commission,
under the coordination of the local extension agent. Specific agreements between the municipalities
and AAS, to ensure follow-up maintenance of project-improved roads by the municipalities, were a
pre-condition for approval by AAS.
Execution Modality
4.    The SAR estimated that most works (about 70% of the component's total costs) would be
contracted out through a national competitive bidding scheme to small local contractors, or, in the case
of very small and dispersed contracts, through direct administration by DER-PR.



- 28 -
First Implementation Years
5.    In 1989 (PY-1), the project improved 156.32 km of rural road, directly by DER. About 82%
of the works were of Type 2 and 3, indicating a trend, to be confirmed in the following years, towards
the more complete and expensive categories of road realignment foreseen in the SAR By 1993 (PY-
4), 82.7% of the accumulated 6,173 km of project-improved roads were of Type 2 and 3, greatly
exceeding the estimated SAR final target of 1,842 km for these categories, while only 1,062 km of
roads (less than 10% of the forecasts) had been improved with Type 1 works. The implementation
status of the Roads component in November 1993 is shown in Table 1.
Table 1. Roads Implementation Status, (as of 30 November 1993)
Road Category   Programmed    Constructed    Achieved       Costlkm
(km)           (km)          (%)         (US$)
Type I         11,890            607             8.9      1,400
TypelB                           455             -        2,700
Type 2            264          3,227         1,122.5      4,500
Type 3          1,578          1,883           119.3      5,800
Total          13,732          6,172           44.95      4,459
Mid-Term Reprogramming
5.    The execution experience during the four initial project implementation years, which translated
the actual demand for road improvement works in the project area, showed that, in order to achieve the
project integrated soil conservation and erosion control objectives, the required interventions along
rural roads were more complex than originally foreseen. Essentially, to integrate the roads with the soil
conservation practices introduced in the surrounding farm lands, substantial raising of the road beds
and redirecting of the rainwater flow were required.
6.    The accomplishment of these actions implied, consequently, a review of the original targets,
substantially modifring the proportion of road-improvement works foreseen in the SAR, so that the
more complex and therefore more expensive types would constitute the bulk of the Roads component.
The readjustment of the component was agreed with the Bank as part of the Mid-Term Review. The
replanning also introduced an originally not foreseen category which was called Type 1B, consisting of
shoulder reduction works without improvement of the rolling surface. The revised targets agreed with
the Bank, which also included also a considerable fund reallocation, are presented in Table 2.



- 29 -
Table 2. Revised Road Improvement Targets, by Type of Works
Road   Revised Target Outstanding   Costlkm     Total Cost
Category      (km)          (km)        (US$)       (US$)
Type 1     1,150            543       1,400        1,610,000
Type 1B      862            407       2,700        2,327,400
Type 2      6,111         2,884       4,500       27,499,500
Type 3      3,565         1,682       5,800       20,677,000
Total      11,868         5,516       4,391       52,113,900
Post Mid-Term Implementation
7.    From the approval of the reviewed targets up to the first quarter of 1997, the implementation of
the component followed the reprogrammed targets. The component's final achievements since project
start-up totaled 10,028 km of realigned roads, of which 8,598 km were of Type 2 and 3, and the
difference (1,430 km) of Type 1.
Participation of the Municipalities
8.    For the completion of the non-accomplished targets, the Bank agreed in 1996 with SEAB's
proposal to change the implementation procedure according to the modality described in the following
section. The new operational modality, in line with the state's decentralization policy, transferred the
responsibility for bidding and contracting of the works to the municipalities, through an agreement
between SEAB, STADER and the municipalities. The modus operandi of the new modality was
established by a Decree which formalized the technical and administrative details of the process. The
technical and bidding norms of the new modality were compatible with the Technical Manual and the
Loan Agreement. The main differences between the two modalities are summarized in Table 3.
Table 3. Differences between DER-Executed and Municipality-Executed Works
Activities          Works Executed by       Works Executed by
DER               the Municipalities
Project preparation       Extension agent        Extension agent
Project analysis          DER                    AAS
Bidding authorization     AAS                    AAS
Bidding process           DER                    Municipality
Work supervision          DER                    Project author
Control                   DER                    PU
Work reception            DER, with PU approval   SEAB, with DER approval



- 30-
9.   In addition to having contributed to accelerated implementation, the new, decentralized
modality had the advantage of ensuring a more intensive participation of the municipalities, which is
expected to improve subsequent road maintenance. It also contributed to an increased participation of
local contractors, although this has not resulted in reduced costs as previously foreseen (see Section 9).
To SEAB, it involved increased work with the analysis, supervision and control of the bidding and
contracting processes of the works, scattered throughout the state, as shown in Table 4.
Table 4. Rural Roads Improved by the Municipalities
Region      Number of  Improved    Cost         Cost      Total   Cost/lkm
Municipalities   Roads    Bank       State     Cost    (US$)
(km)      (US$)    (US$)    (US$)
Apucarana      2             97.24     340,827   340,827     681,654  7,010
Campo Mourao  1              14.36      50,063    50,063     100,127  6,973
Cascavel       3             54.00     192,866   192,866     385,732  7,143
Curitiba       2            20.25       72,059    72,059     144,118  7,117
Fco. Beltrao   3             58.53     208,375   208,375     416,750  7,120
Guarapuava     3            45.07      160,056   160,056     320,112  7,103
Jacarezinho    2            49.20      148,185   148,185     296,370  7,023
Londrina       5             77.51     276,810   276,810     553,620  7,143
Maringa        4             97.55     283,774   395,152     678,926  6,970
Paranavai      6             99.42     365,578   365,578     713,156  7,173
Pato Branco    6             143.29     65,717   951,279    1,016,996  7,097
Ponta Grossa    1            16.58        0,00    118,030    118,030  7,119
Toledo         17            238,22    498,729   1,194,367  1,693,096  7,107
U. da Vit6ria    5           110.66    0,000     767,422    767,422   6,935
Total          59            1,114.88   2,654,041  5,232,072  7,886,113  7,074
Achievements According to the Contracting Modality
10.   Over its eight-year implementation period, the project improved a total of 11,142.62 km of
rural roads, about 10,027.74 km of them under the direct responsibility of DER and 1,114.88 km
implemented by the municipalities as described in section 8. About 3,168 km of the DER-realigned
roads were executed through the force account and 6,859.33 km, through national competitive bidding.
The final cost of the component was US$54,142,631, of which US$14,503,050 (27%) corresponded to
DER-executed works under force account modality, US$31,753,468 (59%) to DER-supervised
contracts, and US$7,886,113 (14%) to the contracts implemented under the SEAB/municipalities
agreement. The average cost per km was US$4,577 for the force account works, US$4,629 for DER-
supervised contracts and US$7,074 for municipality-implemented works. The achievements by
modality and type of work are shown in Table 5.
11.   The contracting of the above 6,859 km of road realignment works under the national
competitive bidding modality involved 178 bidding processes and the signing of 503 execution
contracts. The bidding modalities were:



- 31 -
Local competitive bidding  20
Local limited bidding   136
Invitation               22
12.   The works executed by the 57 municipalities that participated in the decentralized
implementation modality were also contracted through competitive bidding processes following the
legal procedures and the norms established by the Loan Agreement. As a result, of the total 11,142 km
improved roads, around 7,974 km (71.6%) were contracted through competitive bidding.
Table 5. Main Achievements of Road Improvement Works, by Modality
A. DER Force Account Modality
Road Type        Achieved       Average Cost     Total Cost
(km)           (US$)            (US$)
Type 1            291.38         1,400              407,932
Type 1B           287.20         2,700              775,440
Type 2          1,308.72         4,500            5,889,240
Type 3           1,281.11        5,800             7,430,438
Total           3,168.41         4,577            14,503,050
B. DER-Administered National Bidding
Road Type        Achieved       Average Cost     Total Cost
(km)           (US)             (US$)
Type 1            478.17         1,400              669,438
Type lB           376.35         2,700             1,016,145
Type 2          3,666.01         4,500            16,497,045
Type 3          2,339.80         5,800            13,570,840
Total           6,859.33         4,629            31,753,468
C. SEAB/Municipality Agreement
Total            1,114.88        7,074             7,886,113
Grand Total     11,142.62        4,859            54,142,631



- 32-
Other Erosion-Control Works Along Rural Roads
13.   The complementaxy erosion-control works along the above project-realigned roads included:
94,933 Earth structures, 88,515 Flood control tanks, and 42,947 Water-flow side structures.
Road maintenance
14.   To ensure the sustainability of the project-financed road-improvement investments, the
municipalities had to sign an agreement with SEAB, in which they formally promised to ensure the
maintenance of the project-realigned roads, as a basic condition for the approval of the pertinent
investments. Non-compliance with this commitment excluded the concerned municipalities from
subsequent project-supported road improvement benefits.
15.   While all municipalities have signed the above agreements, no systematic monitoring scheme
for the road maintenance works has been set up by the project, which could have collected information
on the type, frequency and cost of road maintenance. However, a sample monitoring carried out by
DER in 1995 showed that the average cost reduction of road maintenance generated by the project-
financed road realignment was around 50% in relation to the estimated US$850/km/year for non-
improved roads. Extending this benefit to the project-accomplished 11,142 km of improved roads, the
total project-generated road maintenance saving would be around US$4.7 million/year. However,
although reduced maintenance costs for improved roads appear to be evident, for lack of a more
systematic study confirming the estimated benefits, the above figures should be used with caution
restriction.
Conclusions
16.   The revised target of 11,688 km of realigned roads was achieved at 95% (and the original
target of 13,732 km by 81%), with the improvement of 10,028 km under DER and 1,115 km by the
municipalities.
17.   The field conditions encountered at implementation were different from those assumed on the
basis of a pre-project sampling which involved 30 microcatchments developed under PM1SA. As a
result, the major road-improvement category (Type 1) foreseen in the SAR, involving only minor road-
bed corrections, no shoulder reduction and no regravelling, achieved at only 12% of the target.
18.   Conversely, the road-improvement types foreseen in a smaller scale, involving increased
earthmoving plus surface regravelling (Types 2 and 3), had their total extension increased by 527% in
relation to the original target.
19.   As a consequence, the component's total costs were increased by 51% from US$36.3 million
(including contingencies) to US$54.8 million, due to the resulting increased average costs in relation to
the SAR estimates.



- 33 -
20.   The SAR-established direct force-account/competitive bidding ratio was respected and
complied with.
21.   The SAR-foreseen institutional/operational arrangement was maintained up to the final project
implementation months, when the scheme was changed, with Bank agreement, to a decentralized
execution modality which involved a more intense participation of the municipalities. The benefits
generated by this decentralization needs to be evaluated.
22.   The scope and quality of the maintenance of the project-improved roads by the municipalities
have not been adequately analyzed. An appropriate monitoring scheme to establish the maintenance
intensity, quality and costs would need to be set up for this purpose.



I



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
LIME DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES
Introduction
1.    This annex contains an analysis of the implementation performance of the Lime Distribution
Component of Loan 3018-BR Although the projected investment targets have been fully
accomplished, the component's objectives were only partially achieved, due to externalities was not
evident at appraisal.
Rationale
2.    In addition to natural acidity inherent to most soils of Parana's First and Second Plateaus,
intensive land use compounded by the local climatic conditions also generated the acidification of the
more fertile soils of the Third Plateau, with a negative impact on productivity. Experience in the state's
main production areas had shown that liming, by enhancing the availability of soil nutrients to the
plants, could increase crop productivity by about 30% on average, while improving vegetative cover
and top soil structure. However, while good quality lime deposits exist on the coast, near Curitiba, the
high transportation costs resulting from the long distances (average 500-600 km) from the quarries to
the production areas considerably limited the use of lime by the farmers. The use of low-cost return
freights by truckers transporting soybean from the west and north to the Paranagua port after the
harvest was limited by the lack of adequate loading facilities at the quarries. Truckers preferred to
return empty rather than wait for 2-3 days in the line for loading lime. An appropriate railroad
loading/unloading and storage infrastructure would allow the introduction of a lime distribution scheme
by using the return freight capacity of the railcars for the transportation of lime at more attractive costs
and its storage in the production areas until the subsequent cropping cycle.
The Railroad Lime Terminals Component
3.    Objective. The objective of the component was to promote liming, aiming at increasing crop
yields, soil cover and farmers' revenues, through the establishment of railroad loading and unloading
terminals and appropriate storage infrastructure in strategic points of the railroad network owned by the
Federal Railroad Company (RFFSA), that would facilitate lime distribution and contribute to reduced
on-farm lime costs.
4.    Design. The original proposal was to construct one loading terminal adjacent to the lime
quarries in Laranjeiras do Sul and four unloading terminals, respectively in Uniao da Vit6ria,
Guarapuava, Apucarana, and Cianorte. However, the loading terminal at the quarries was rejected for
alleged operational and environmental reasons which prevented RFFSA1 (the state railroad company)
from transporting lime through the city of Curitiba. An alternative railroad solution - constructing a by-
pass branch around Curitiba - was dropped for its high construction costs (US$40 million). The
solution finally agreed with RFFSA, following a viability study elaborated by the company, was the
RFFSA: Rede Ferroviuria Federal - Sociedade Anamnma



- 36-
establishment of the loading terminal in Araucarna (about 20 km beyond Curitiba and 50 km from the
quarnies) and the transportation of the lime by RFFSA from the quarries to the loading terminal by
truck. From Araucaria, the lime would be transported by railroad to the above unloading terminals,
where it would be stored until its distribution to the farmers by local trucks.
5.    Expected Output. The estimated total amount of lime to be distributed through the terminals
over the eight years of the project was around 5.7 million tons.
6.    Investment Costs. The total cost of the component, including contingencies, was estimated at
US$6.01 million.
7.    Organization and Management. CAFE DO PARANA (later CODAPAR) was to be
responsible for the construction and overall administration of the terminals. The local management of
the terminals as well as the distribution of the lime would be managed by accredited cooperatives
through specific contracts to be established between SEAB, CAFE do Parana, RFFSA and the
cooperatives. A special fee was agreed upon with RFFSA, who would be responsible for the
transportation from the quarries to the unloading terminals.
Implementation Experience
8.    Start-up. The component had a slow implementation start-up due to the combination of
various factors, including: (a) the longer than expected time spent with defining the participating
cooperatives and signing the multi-party contracts; (b) the need to re-adjust the costs and the
implementation timetable of the component, following detailed studies conducted by RFFSA; and (c)
the longer than foreseen time spent with the international bidding process, mainly due to lack of
experience of project staff.
9.    Construction. The construction of the loading terminal and three unloading terminals (Uniao
da Vit6ria, Guarapuava and Cianorte) was initiated in 1990 (PY-1) and completed in 1992 (PY-3).
The bidding process of the fifth terminal (Apucarana) was delayed due, initially, to legal problems
related to the land area destined to its construction, and then to institutional problems involving the
amalgamation of CAFE DO PARANA with COPASA into CODAPAR (who immediately absorbed
CAFE's commitments with the project) and the replacement of CANORPA (for bankruptcy) by
COCAMAR, as the managing cooperative for the Apucarana terminal. The bidding process was
eventually canceled following the appeal of one of the bidders against the bidding results published in
early 1992.
10.   After unsuccessful attempts to resume the bidding of the fifti terminal, by transferring its
location from Apucarana to Cambe, in 1995 the Government and the Bank agreed to construct, instead
of one more railroad terminal, 38 road termiinals in selected municipalities. This was achieved under an
agreed arrangement by which the municipalities provided the land and construction labor costs, and
SEAB, through the project, financed the required construction materials (with counterpart funds) and
the loading/unloading equipment (with Loan funds).
11.       Costs. The component's actual costs, compared to the forecasts, are shown in Table 1.



- 37-
Table 1. SAR Estimates and Actual Costs, by Year
(IJS$ 1,000)
Year         SAR         Actual
1989/90     5,164
1990/91       846             14
1991/92     -              3,986
1992/93                      20
1993/94     -
1994/95                     599
1995/96                     298
1996/97                    1,238
Total       6,010          6,155
Operationalization
12.   The railroad terminals became operational in late 1992. The loading terminal was handed over
to CALCOOP - a company created for this purpose by the participating cooperatives. CAMISC
became responsible for the Uniao da Vit6ria terminal, COAMIG for the Guarapuava terminal and
COCAMAR for the Cianorte terminal. In all cases a contract between the cooperative CODAPAR and
RFFSA established the terms for operation of the lime terminals, including the special fees to be
charged by RFFSA (TABLE 2). Technical problems related to the loading/unloading equipment,
which considerably reduced the expected output, were eventually solved, and by 1993 the network
became fully operational.
Table 2. Contract-Established Initial Freight Tariffs
Section             Distance      Discount    Net Cost
___   -  (km)          (%)       (US/ton)
Araucaria-Uniao da Vit6ria   344           0-8         2.90
Araucaria-Guarapuava         378           22-33       2.89
Araucaria Maringa            513           25-33       4.41
Araucaria-Cianorte           610           25-33       4.41
13.   The actual output ended up being considerably lower than expected, and the whole system
eventually collapsed, due to the conjunction of many factors, the most important of them being
externalities not foreseeable at appraisal. However, while project-distributed lime was below
estimates, the state's total lime consumption increased considerably during the project period,
indicating that the project's endeavor to foster liming in the state and its efforts towards the
viabilization of a lime distribution scheme contributed to the expanded use of soil amendments in
Parana (see Table 3).



- 38 -
Table 3. Lime Loaded/Unloaded Through the Project Lime Terminals
(Forecasts and Actual), Compared to Total Lime Consumption in Parana, by Year
Year      SAR         Revised    Actual    %          State Total
Estimates   Targets                         Consumption
(t)        (t)       (t)         %        (million t)
1985-88              _ _        -          -           1.7*
1989       320,000    -         -          -          1.8
1990       520,000    -         -          -          1.6
1991       800,000    -         -          -          1.8
1992      1,025,000    300,000    76,847    27%       2.1
1993      1,025,000    650,000   250,335    39%       2.5
1994      1,025,000    1,000,000  232,007    23%      3.2
1995      -           1,296,000   71,791    6%        2.3
1996      -           1,296,000     294    0.02%      3.2
Total     5,740,000    4,542,000  631,274    14%
14.   After the lime transportation scheme became fully operational, the reduced lime transportation
was a result of increased freight costs (see Table 4 and 5), which eventually (1996) became non-
competitive with truck return-freights. While the average final costs at the unloading terminals in 1996
was around US$24.00/ton, average costs of lime transported by truck averaged US$16.00-18.00/ton.
Table 4. Average Net Freight Tariffs, (1993-1996)
Year            Quarter          US$/ton           % of 1993 Tariff
1993            2                3.40              100
1994            2                3.19              94
1995            2                5.59              164
1996            2                10.97             323
Table 5. Composition of Average Final Lime Price
(US$/ton)
Price Components                             1993 (*)    1996
Lime price at quarry                         6.39        6.65
Operational cost at loading terminal         1.30        0.00
Truck freight quarry-loading terminal       2.23         2.70
Railroad freight loading-unloading terminal  3.40        10.97
Operational cost at unloading terminal       0.78        1.02
Covering of rail cars                        0.29        0.00
Margin for Cooperatives + financial costs    0.00        2.00
Technical contingencies                      0.53        0.66
Final Cost at unloading terminal             14.92       24.00
(*) Average CAMISC, COCAMAR and COAMIG



- 39-
15.   The main factors that contributed to this were: (a) the complicated and expensive RFFSA-run
truck transportation from the quarries to the loading terminal; (b) the suspension, in 1995, of the freight
discounts granted by RFFSA (see Table 2), as part of a structural adjustment measures aimed at
facilitating the privatization of the company, initiated in 1996 and concluded in 1997, and the lack of
interest of the new owner (Ferrovia Sul-Atlantico SA) to continue with low-profit operations; and (c)
the considerably increased financial costs resulting form the "Plano Real" after 1994, which made the
storage of stocks by the cooperatives over the off-season unviable, thus invalidating a major element
which justified the component.
16.   Some of the above factors also contributed to the sub-optimal use of the road municipal
terminals build by the project. While a number of them continue to be used essentially for lime storing,
most of the road terminals now have a multi-purpose use, mainly as input storage facilities, while the
use of the loading equipment is being optimized through their mobilization to a number of other
community-centered activities. Some of the rural road terminals are being managed by farmers'
cooperatives or associations, and others, where these organizations are weak, by the municipalities.
17.   Conclusions. The component has not achieved its original objectives. It appears, however,
that the component' rationale was correct, and the component's assumptions and design were
consistent with the overall macro-economic, structural, infrastructural and technological framework
prevailing at the time of project appraisal. The above described start-up delays are common in projects
of this nature and they were not a determinant of the component's failure. Neither was the
unsuccessful bidding of the Apucarana terninal. The alternative proposal of constructing the rural
roads terminals was very creative and consistent with the situation.
19.   While the project's lime distribution objectives were not achieved in the strict sense, they were,
however, indirectly achieved on a wider scale. In fact, the project's lime promotion efforts contributed
considerably to the increased consumption of lime at state level, a key element of the project's land
management strategy (as shown in Table 3), and induced the quarries and truckers to develop a
competitive lime distribution alternative to the advantage of the farmers and to the benefit of increased
crop productivity in Parani.
20.   The infrastructure established by the project, while partially lost to the original lime-distribution
objectives, constitutes an important asset whose utilization can be optimized by a multi-purpose use
scheme. At present, the Government is examining the convenience of operating it strictly within the
agricultural sector for the storage and transportation of various agricultural inputs and products or
giving it a more flexible, multi-sector use destination, as proposed by the railroad company.






- 41-
ANNEX 3
PROJECT ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
SAR Estimates
1.    The Internal Economic Rate of Return estimated at Appraisal was 24%. Seven rainfed farm
models, representative of the eight mesoregions, were analyzed to test the impact of the improved land
management and soil conservation practices on the yield of major crop and livestock products.
2.    Financial Rates of Return of the models ranged from 16-61%. Expected average incremental
net annual farm benefits resulting from project-introduced practices were estimated to vary from
US$70 in the center-south (10 ha/farm manual cropping), to US$1,370 in the south-west (17 ha,
animal traction), US$2,565 in the west (30 ha, mechanized cropping), and US$5,180 in the north-west
(195 ha, livestock production).
3.    The project was designed to directly/indirectly assist some 165,000 farm families within the
selected eight mesoregions covering an area of over 5 million ha. The average adoption rate used for
the economnic evaluation of the proposed project was 21% of the total area, equivalent to 1.1 million
ha.
Revised Estimates at Completion
3.    Project area and adoption rates. The economic re-evaluation of Land Management I Project
- Parana is based on the following assumptions resulting from: (a) the adoption rates detected by
IPARDES in a survey carried out for the Mid-Term Review of the project (September 1993); and (b)
the total area of the assisted microcatchrnents and the restricted area of the directly assisted fanners.
Table 1. Total Area of Assisted Farms and Adoption Rates, by Mesoregion
Total Area of
Mesoregion    Assisted MCs <*>    Adoption Rate      Project Area
(ha)              (                 (ha)
1                108,399                30             32,520
2                192,314                30             57,964
3                836,036                30            250,811
4                989 830                40            395,932
5                837,304                50            418,652
6               2,892,293               50           1,446,147
7                410,100                40             164,040
8                832,443                40            332,977
Total          7,098,719                             3,098,722
<*> MC = microcatchments



- 42 -
4.    Phasing of the Project Area. Based on the number of new microcatchments incorporated by
the project each year, the percentage area where the recommended land management practices were
adopted was as follows:
Table 2. Area Incorporation Rate, by Year
Year               Yearly Rates (°)
89/90                    36
90/91                     9
91/92                    20
92/93                     5
93/94                    17
94/95                     7
95/96                     6
Total                    100
5.    Beneficiaries. Using the adoption/entry rates shown in Table 1, the total number of direct
project beneficiaries considered for the evaluation was estimated at 95,000 out of the total of 214,000
rural producers farming in the assisted microcatchments. The incorporation of new beneficiaries by
mesoregion and by year was estimated as shown in Table 3.
Table 3. Direct Beneficiaries, by Mesoregion and by Year.
MR<*>   1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95  1995/96  Total
1        228      57        127      32       108       44       38       634
2        502      125       279      70       237       98       84        1,395
3        2,333    583       1,296    324       1,102    454      389       6,481
4        4,204    1,051    2,336    584       1,985    817       701       11,678
5        5,889    1,472    3,272    818       2,781     1,145    981       16,358
6        16,147   4,037    8,971    2,243    7,625    3,140    2,691       44,854
7        2,081    520       1,156    289      983       405      347       5,781
8        2,817    705       1,564    390      1,330    547       469       7,822
Total    34,201   8,550    19,001   4,750    16,151   6,650    5,700    95,003
<*> Mesoregion
6.    Farm Models. For the preparation of the SAR, seven different farm models were developed,
which at the time were considered as representative of the prevailing and future farming systems in the
project area. Experience, however, has shown that these models did not adequately reflect the regional
and land husbandry differences and could not anticipate technology changes. For these reasons the
ICR adopted 14 farm models which were defined on the basis of the field survey carried out by AAS in
1996 for the Economic Evaluation of the project used for the preparation of the Bank-financed Rural



- 43 -
Poverty Alleviation and Natural Resources Management Project (Loan 4060-BR), and are
representative of the 95,000 assisted farms in the eight mesoregions. The surveys covered all the 954
farm households in six selected microcatchments, representing a total area of 22,773 ha.
7.     Besides major yield differences, the SAR assumptions and the parameters used for this ICR
analysis differ also in some crop and technology assumptions, in particular: (a) coffee: the coffee
plantations that existed before the project using conventional technology were practically phased out.
Coffee was re-introduced under the project with a new technology called "cafe adensado" (reduced
spacing) as a production altemative for small farmers who did not cultivate this crop before the project.
Therefore coffee is not present in the without-project situation in those farms developed with the
project, although it existed (as shown in SAR farm models) in farms that were not assisted by the
project; (b) wheat: wheat cultivation was substantially reduced as a result of unfavorable macro-
economic policy changes. This is reflected in the farm models. However, as a complementary winter
crop, it is in some areas economically efficient as a double-purpose crop, for grain and for straw, in
particular by farmers who have adopted PD cultivation, as reflected in other models; and (c) zero-
tillage: this technology was incipient before the project, and is absent in the without-project situation,
but has become a widespread technology for its efficiency against erosion and its cost-effectiveness,
as shown in specific models.
8.    Technical Coefficients and Farm Models. Basically two parameters were utilized in
designing the representative farm models: (a) the technical coefficients to represent the ex-ante
situation (before project implementation) and (b) the different adoption rates of the recommended
technologies. The existing technical coefficients were analyzed not only in relation to the
crops/livestock activities produced, but also to the regional characteristic of the eight mesoregions of
the project. Both the ex-ante and "with project" situations of the farm models were estimated
considering the activities, farm size and the technological level, based on parameters collected during
the different surveys conducted. As mentioned above, the yield assumptions used in this analysis differ
from those adopted at appraisal as shown in Table 4.



- 44 -
Table 4. Yield Assumptions of Major Crops (kg/ha)
Crops       wo/P        w/P        Increm.   Crops           wo/P      w/P       Increm.
Soybean (C) 2150        2600       21         Soybean PD     -         2500       -
Wheat (C)   1700        2125       25         Soybean MR    1750       2250      28
Maize (C)   2800        4200       50         Soybean MCH   -          2150       -
Maize (B)   2400        3400       42         Soybean MT    1900       -          -
Maize (A)   1400        1800       28         Soybean MC    2000       2250       12
Beans (B)     600        900       50         Wheat PD       -         2000       -
Coffee       1300       1800       38         Wheat MCH    1650        1850       12
Wheat MT       1500      -          -
Wheat MC       1500      1750       17
Maize PD       -         5500       -
Maize MR       2500      4500       80
Maize MCH    3000        4250       42
Maize AT       1500      3250      117
Maize MC       3500      5000       43
Cattle           57       105      84
Beans PS2       400      1000      150
Beans PS        400       500       25
Beans MCH       800      1000       25
Beans W         750       850       13
Coffee         -         3900      -
Cotton TAl     1350      1650      22
Cotton MOT2   1650       1950       18
Cotton PS      1200      1425       19
wo/P:     without-project
w/P       with-project
(A)       manual fanming using low level of modem inputs
(B)       animal traction farming using medium level of modem inputs.
(C)       mechanized farming using high level of modem inputs
PD        direct planting. (zero-tillage)
MR        microcatchment "Realeza"
MCH       microcatchment "Chopinzinho"
MT        microcatchment "Tupansi"
MC        microcatchment "Comelio"
AT        animal traction
PS        subsistence farmer
PS2       subsistence farmer



- 45 -
9.    Estimated Benefits. The incremental production generated by the project, estimated after the
farm models, is shown in Table 5.
Table 5. Incremental Production of Major Crops (Total Project)
(000 tons)
Crop                     SAR                                  ICR
Wo/Project W/Project  Increment  Wo/Project W/Project  Increment
Soybean     782.6       946.4        236.6       2176         2578        402
Wheat       535.5        669.4       181.1        1171        1008        (163)
Maize       838.0        1261.5      423.5        1526        3065         1539
Beans       68.8         91.1        22.3        46           135          89
Coffee      76.7         106.2       37.2                     23          23
10.   Incremental Production. The total value of production at full development has been
estimated at US$1,188 million. Approximately 79% of this amount comes from improved productivity
of four main crops (soybeans, maize, beans and coffee).
11.   Financial Rates of Return and Net Benefits. Analyses show financial rates of return ranging
from 12-31%, as shown in Table 6. Net annual farm benefits from the main crops, which before
project implementation varied from US$550 to US$10,650, increased to a range of US$1,250 to
US$1,9250 at Year 7 of the project.
Table 6. Farm Models. Incremental Net Benefits and Rates of Return
Farm Model    Farm Size    Wo/Project    W/Project    Full Devel.           FRR
(ha)         (US$)         (US$)          (US$).         (%)
1                20.0           2,496         7,462         4,966         27.0
2                 69.0         10,640         19,250         8,610         31.0
3                 25.0          2,530         5,296          2,766         25.0
4                 25.0          3,161         4,497          1,336         12.3
5                 12.0          1,586         2,742          1,156         17.5
6                 22.0          2,350         5,457          3,107         25.0
7                  4.0           547          2,400          1,853         18.3
8                 17.5         2,968          6,336          3,368         23.0
9                 35.0         4,468          8,359          3,891         21.7
10               24.0          2,383          4,927         2,544          19.4
11                 7.4         1,161          2,546          1,385         15.3
12               35.0          4,468          8,778         4,310         28.0
13                 7.4         1,161          1,256            95         21.3
14                17.5         2,968          3,125           157          16.4



- 46 -
12.    Project Costs. Capital Costs used in the Economic Analysis are Current US dollars disbursed
by Financiers by year converted into 1997 US dollars using the USA Consumer Price Index, as shown
in Table 7. Capital costs from years 1-9 include operating and maintenance costs. Project maintenance
and operating costs from years 10-20 have been estimated at US$ 7.4 million/year for follow-up
activities of implementing agencies.
Table 7. Actual Disbursement by Financier, by Year
(US$ million)
SAR    Actual  1989  1990   1991   1992   1993   1994  S199    1996   1997   Total
Bank      63.0   63.0   3.0   2.8    10.5   9.7    10.2   8.5    9.0    2.6    6.7    63.0
State     75.3   98.9    0     6.2    6.1    11.6   9.5    12.8   17.9   15.3   19.5   98.9
Cunent
USS       138.3  161.9  3.0   9.0    16.6   21.2   19.7   21.3   26.8   17.9   26.8   161.9
Inflators                1.29  1.22    1.17    1.14    1.10    1.08    1.05    1.02    1.00
Constant
1977 US$                 3.87  10.99   19.44   24.21   21.69   23.01   28.18   18.28   26.21
12.    Economic and Sensitivity Analysis. The overall rate of return of the project is estimated to
be 28% over a 20-year period (Appendix Tables Al to A3), as compared to ERR estimated at
appraisal of 24%. The cost stream for the economic analysis is based on the following elements: (a)
all on-farm investments and operating costs are estimated on a per hectare basis for the development of
over 3.1 million ha of farmland resulting from the adoption rates outlined under para. 4; and (b) all
project costs were adjusted as described in para. 13, except those related to the soil conservation fund
(already included in on-farm investment). Incremental net benefits were estimated on a per hectare
basis from the 3.1 million ha of farmland expected to fully benefit from improved land management
and soil conservation practices.
13.    Due to seasonal fluctuations, financial prices used in the analysis were the average farmgate
prices of the last 12 months. Economic prices at farmgate were derived from the main traded goods,
including soybean, wheat, maize, coffee and basic chemical fertilizers (urea and potassium chloride),
taking into account border prices, freight, insurance, port handling and processing costs. Farm labor
was valued at 0.9 of the financial wage rate. The effect upon the project's economic rate of return
under various sensitivity tests is shown in Table 8.
Table 8. Project Economic Rate of Return. Sensitivity Analysis
Costs                            Benefits                          ERR (%)
Plus 10%                         Unchanged                         24.8%
Plus 20%                         Unchanged                         22.1%
Less 10%                         Unchanged                         31.8%
Unchanged                        Plus 10%                          31.4%
Unchanged                         Minus 20%                         17.7%



- 47 -
ANNEX 4
BORROWER COMPLETION REPORT
(SUMMARY)
1.    The project successfully achieved its main targets. The number of microcatchments assisted
(target 2,100; achieved 2.433) was surpassed by 15.8%; the number of beneficiaries (target 165,000;
achieved 214,000) by 29.7%; and the project area (target 5 rmillion ha; achieved 7.1 million ha) by
40.8%.
2.    The project's technical strategy was successfully implemented. The most important soil
management practices adopted in the microcatchments included: terracing, contour stone ridging,
feeder roads realignment, improved soil preparation, liming, green manuring, organic fertilization, crop
rotation, "direct planting "(PD - zero-tillage), conservationist reforestation, collective water supply
structures. In the priority regions, over 50% of the farmers in the microcatchments adopted the
recommended techniques.
3.    These practices contributed to substantial reduction of erosion, resulting in important economic
gains for producers and the society. Water turbidity decreased by 50% to 70% and water treatment
costs for urban consumption by 60% to 80%. Soil nutrient loss from erosion was reduced by 33% for
potassium, 17% for phosphorus and 5.8% for organic matter. Average yield gains resulting from
reduced erosion and increased water retention were 87% for maize (2,103 kg before the project to
3,937 kg in 1995), 62% for wheat (from 1,238 kg/ha to 2,000 kg/ha); 31% for soybean (from 2,008 to
2,635 kg/ha), 60% for beans (693 to 1,107 kg/ha).
4.    Production costs decreased by US$4.6 million/year from reduced use of pesticides, due to
increased use of IPM methods; by US$2.1 million/year from replacing chemical fertilizers by animal
manure; and by US$2.8 million/year by using green manuring. The annual savings by the
municipalities from decreased road maintenance in project-improved rural roads is estimated at about
US$21.25 million.
5.    A socio-economic survey carried out in 1994 (five years after project start-up) showed that
Project-assisted farmers had increased the constructed area of on-farm buildings by 50%; the number
of tractors had increased by 8.14% and the number of key implements from 10% to 14%. The number
of draft animals had grown by 3.8%; the cattle herd had increased from 5 to 7 cows and the pig herd
from 3.6 to 6.3 sows per farm household. About 14% of the holders had increased the area of their
properties. Family net revenues had grown from US$3,440 to US$5,475. The average farmstead area
had increased by 5%; the number of refrigerators by 5.5% and the number of gas ovens by 9.7%.
6.    Microcatchment Soil Conservation Commissions were created in all the 2,433 assisted
microcatchments and Municipal Soil Conservation Commissions in all 392 municipalities in which the
project developed its activities. In addition, 19 Regional Commissions were set up. The Commissions
participated actively in defining priorities, planning the microcatchment development programs, and
defining the optimum use of the Soil Conservation Fund incentives. About 7,000 farmers groups were
created for the purchase and management of Fund-supported equipment and activities.



- 48 -
7.    The Project motivated the creation of municipal Secretariats of Agriculture which actively
contributed to Project implementation through the recruitment of 258 municipal professionals.
Implementation Levers and Main Problems
8.    Levers. In addition to the Soil Conservation Fund incentives which considerably contributed
to the adoption of the recommended technologies, the project counted on the support of an up-to-date
soil-use legislation, an effective law enforcement capacity, and a number of SEAB-managed
development programs addressed to producers' demands which the rigidity of the project was unable
to supply. These complementary programs were integrated with the project's activities and managed
by AAS as a harmonious unity. The most important were: Integrated Soil and Water Management
(PMISA); Irrigation and Drainage (PROID); Food Supply; Support to Rural Settlements; Coffee
Rehabilitation; Integrated Forestry Development (PDFI); Fruit Crops Development; Animal
Production; "Panela Cheia"- (a rural credit line for small farmers); and Agro-Industry and
Employment.
9.    Main problems. The main problems that affected Project implementation were: (a) occasional
funding difficulties (affecting particularly the Soil Conservation Fund- and roads realignment-related
activities); (b) extensionists tumover, mainly in the initial implementation phase; (c) a lower than
expected participation of the cooperatives and the private sector; (d) changes of the institution
responsible for management of the Fund - BADEP (from 1989-91), BANESTADO (1991-95), and
CODAPAR (1995-97) - with concomitant delayed interruptions that hindered the prompt adoption of
Fund-supported technologies; (e) institutional changes, in particular the transfer of ITCF from SEAB to
the Secretariat of Environment and its merger with SURTHEMA to form LAP, resulting in initial
coordination difficulties; (f) the limitations to adequately resolve the recycling of the pesticide
containers accumulated in the project-constructed toxic waste deposits over the years. While their use
contributed to reduced pollution in a first phase, these deposits have now themselves become a
pollution risk which needs to be removed; (g) the difficulty of developing participatory action with
farmers of the poorest areas of the state, which was the main limiting factor to project achievements in
the Center-south.
Assessment of Project Performance and Results, by Component
10.   Adaptive Research. This component achieved its original objectives and surpassed the
forecasted targets. The component contributed to a better technical basis and developed technologies
to resolve technology gaps detected at preparation.
11.   Rural Extension. The component contributed to the improvement of public and private
extension and technical assistance to farmers, thus creating conditions for the implementation of the
project's concept and technical strategy adjusted to the needs of the project beneficiaries.
12.   Soil Conservation Incentive Fund. Although implementation of some items was below
SAR estimates, the Fund significantly contributed to farmers' quick adoption of project-recommended
technologies. The component's demonstration effect was effectual and contributed to the extensive
and adequate use of relevant machines, equipment and soil conservation practices.



- 49 -
13.   Rural Roads Realignment. This activity contributed to the harmonious integration of the
feeder road network with the farmlands in the microcatchments. It contributed to improved
transportation of inputs, farm produce and the rural population, and helped to create the basis for the
establishment of agro-industries in rural areas.
14.   Lime Distribution. This component made lime accessible to a large number of small farmers.
However, due to policy changes which favored truck transportation and left the project-established
railroad lime-distribution infrastructure to a great extent idle, this component has not achieved its
proposed objectives.
15.   Forestry Development. While the targets have not been completely achieved, this activity
stimulated commercial and conservation reforestation in small holdings, helped to reduce pressure on
the existing native forests, and contributed to adequate management of a number of State Conservation
Units.
16.   Soil Use Monitoring and Control. This activity helped to redirect some Soil Conservation
Fund-supported actions and to correct occasional misuse of Fund incentives. In addition, it encouraged
non-assisted large farmers to participate in the land management activities within microcatchments.
17.   Project Administration and Monitoring. The implementation performance of this
component was satisfactory. The Project administration Unit adequately coordinated the project and
corrected emerging technical and administrative deficiencies on a timely basis.
18.   Training. This activity surpassed its original targets and was the key to the performance of
extensionists and farmers.
Project Costs
19.   Total project costs were US$161.9 million (108.6% of estimates). The State disbursed
US$98.9 million (115% of estimates). The Loan (US$63.0 million) was totally disbursed. Increased
total costs resulted mainly from raised salaries derived from the monetary policy introduced by the
"Plano Real" which affected particularly the Extension component (65% increase). Fund reallocations
due to target adjustments during implementation affected principally the roads component (48% above
SAR estimates) and the Soil Conservation Incentive Fund (30% below forecasts).
Main Lessons Learned
* As it is difficult to foresee at preparation the points that will affect project execution, the project
must be flexible enough to allow adjustments during implementation to better achieve the envisaged
objectives.
* Basic training and continued update training were essential to ensuring the good implementation
performance of the extensionists and preserving the technical philosophy of the project.
* The existence of a stock of relevant land management technologies, enriched during implementation
by the generation of new techniques, was fundamental to successful project execution. Their



- 50-
systematization in a Technical Manual for the daily use of the extensionists facilitated the diffusion
of the recommended practices.
* Participatory planning was an important factor of successful implementation.
* The use of microcatchments as the project's geographical planning units permitted the extensionists
to better understand and synthesize the land management problems and solutions. The
microcatchment approach propitiated the concentration of extension activities and the rational use of
financial and human resources; stimulated the integration of the participating institutions and the
organization of the farmers around a common objective; motivated group discussions and
participatory action; reduced operating costs through the implementation of collective practices;
increased water retention in the microcatchment; and facilitated pollution control.
* Individual Farm Plans (PIPs) were an adequate instrument for farm development. PIPs
summarized the farmer-extensionist joint analysis of farm potential and problems, and outlined a
phased program of actions aimed at eliminating existing land use conflicts and at optimizing land
use, through the introduction of adequate technologies to be progressively implemented according to
the farmer's resources.
* Technical assistance and monitoring were important to ensure the correct implementation of the
PIPS.
* Mechanized farmers in areas of rich soils, with more financial resources, and being better organized
and more responsive to changes, have benefited more from the project than farmers using animal
and manual traction in poor zones.
* The participation of private extension in project activities was below expectations, as the
remuneration for their services (financed by the PMISA program) was not considered attractive and
small farmers were not prepared to pay for the technical assistance. The participation of the
cooperatives was limited because of the geographical dispersion of their associates who were
seldom concentrated in the assisted microcatchments. Municipal extension was constrained by the
distorted perception of many mayors traditionally used to invest state funds in activities dictated by
political interests often not coinciding with the technical interests of the project.
* The performance of the Municipal Commissions depended to a great extent on the capacity of their
leaders to coordinate participatory action. Intensive training of these leaders considerably helped to
dynamise the commissions.
* Recommended technologies founded on a sound and well understood technical strategy, whose
effectiveness and advantages are easily perceived by the farmers, will be readily adopted in a large
scale within and off the project area.
* The Soil Conservation Incentive Fund was manifestly an excellent strategy to accelerate the
adoption of technologies. Such a Fund must be flexible to permit the inclusion, during
implementation, of relevant technologies initially not foreseen, and should not be jeopardized by
unreliable funding flows.



- 51 -
* The project funding flow must be consistent with the programmed activities; disbursement/transfer
delays are generally detrimental to the achievement of project targets.
* The project must be sufficiently flexible to allow adjustments and reallocations during
implementation.
* The project must be consistent with, and part of, the overall govemrnment development plan, and
propose one single, convergent inter-institutional objecfive.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 21116
5'4'                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~52'                                                     50-                                                                        S
SAO              PAULO                                                                                                      BRAZIL
MATO  GROSSO                                                                                               >L                                                                                               MNAGEMEN LAND MANAGEMENT I PROJECT - PARANA
MA TO  GROSS                                                    /                                                                                             s,4 Z ov iPROJECT AREA - ADAPTIVE RESEARCH AND
DO   SUL                      -'                 <                 -____                                  . .>4_/2'. X - R.!.,.,,                                                                          TRAINING COMPONENTS
PROJECT  EXISTING
j ._ Porono ai g - S,000~0 . f'P Corbor6                                                                                                    (_    IAPAR Regionl Office
-              ___       Bela Vista do Poraiso            Bandeiroetes,,8                  c                                                 0 T   Resoorch Stations
9,                               El~~~  [                       0               /                                                               R-se-hl Station a,tn Seed Pcoee-ing Un,it
/     OCEPAR Reseo-ch Stat-on
Cllbipir                                                                               0     Agr.-nnat..ralogical Stat on
10,000 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIbpd0EMBRAPA-CNPS
/°°00['  X   )   ptsf/  Londrinc                         ce                                            * ? < s    EMBRAPA-CNPF
|  U00 El                                  .    qainn Tnora        A                                       *     Soil LJanatories
Umoarmao                                                                  -fur-o          *c                     0                      0;11                       0                                 Adaptio- Resach L.b-,atoies
11000 d'J  j          ~    ~     /       7\P                           ~     ?4S             -r landio do 5t |         .,9         £    \           2      v      }      jf                                                 Isoenosve Lines - Yreoly Average lMJ-- i Yr     MJ lh-)
7                             c                                                                                            Pacd Roads
_~inOof )  -,,4            -   -                      -                                                                                                    -<    (    :  Main Ri-ers
St*  /                                                          -     -                                                                                                -     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mes-rgi-n B-udari.s,0
25°  _   //- - -,,-,/  - n> !_  ~ -)}              2J,,   P~       i     __J>$>                rolercire                     t1    StoteC.pif.a                                      24'
W   '5't/\   |   t   Compo Niourao -                    <    tk              \      tF           \                 \    \    /~~~~~~%                                   -.-  InternationoT.)  Boundaries.
1 S.( Miue do .oo a:y -                                                aajirsd a                  Gaaun
P-i m Y he~ S E en    bY                                                              a/ \P/lot--                                                                                                                                               EC B.
C6.did. d. Abr.~~~26.
Cie     a sIfOcaO                      - )                                  Clenel6ndia          Palmns    \                                                                                                                                              Ii
andlhuLSernsE nIFsse   {                           <      S      \               \$                      Ol               50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  S  100    15i0 KILOMETERS                         fiCOi1LE s     tAAaY
TO.  000I M oc 0q'5...
vSmnf 7he Wmh Eune k dE e  >    !                                                              t//            o~~~~~~~~~~-                     50                         ILOT MILES      /                                              2 
S.T Mugl                                                       L.-i- d. bYYI                Guopu-                                                                                                                                               Atlantic 5            CSA NT A  CATARINA  I  U   ojARnN    /  /
54~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                     ~       ~     ~~~       ~     ~ 0 52  50w So    )9IULu
5O                                                                                                                                  1988
.q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTBR10



MATO    GROSSO                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAO      PAULO                                                                                                           B RAZ IL                      -PRN
MATO  GROSS 0                                             -                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~LAND MANAGEMENT I PROJECT -PRN
DO   SUL                               -, monil..                                                                                                                                                   PROJECT AREA - RURAL EXTENSION COMPONENT
O' P6,to Rick.       oo~ 
-                  ~~~~~~~Cru....   do Sol                                                                                                                                  PRojEcT  EXISTING
Moohoo                   /                 /        ...                          -                                                   0               EMAATER-PR Reg ... I OH%I
Poronovol *            d~~J,,M.1oO                                   OL.6p.                                                                           0               EMOATER-PR L.-, OCi-oo
0     0              C-61h.           ~           0  
0                            M.H.q.~~~~~~~~~~0Crnl
Jo,g. d.                                            0         ac.~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pip~fl     d
/  ~~  potrocino  Toreron do  oeS00  r~~~~~~~~~~Arorooo  BO   ~~~~         ~~                 I P00                   ,<    doo
ES ~  rilodio   (                                  Wroeolous-ro
MA-    o                                                                             .ii                                                                          o  R-
- .1                                    /                                                     %                          Cc      Senoes" (:)I-adlliStole Roundoro
It.,OJ.diI Al.greN.                                                                                                                                  nen*,olBudro
O B.. Esprrg                       OOfl             <oguoroivo
0                                            BrogooeyQ                           I.
OM-do                                                                                                                                                           -. Groo       I`r                         - /                        GAO S5.1
fl.                                                                                                                                                                                                                               48~~~d P,o,6
Nono Proto                                               ~~~                                                                  oo~~o                                                         COJOOOO '0sirzAiinA'orCURITIB
AoTdoi  li~t                            Guoroubo-g
'Mo  dpolis 0                                                                                                                                                                  flO~~~~~~~~~~~JI,6VdI26
iiio:0i0000050'ons,  -F-cu. BG1terol    Vt.\
ROAO.00 00000  I..    J                           '0                                                   ~         ~        ~~       ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                    ~~~~0 50  100  150 KILOMETERS  \ot  0ARAGAAY
00i~0oA0n,.0eO   00 >                                                                                                                        0S00100 MILE
SANTA    CATARINA                                                                                                                                                                                 0OTTO
00000    54'                                                                        520so
OCTOBER l988



IBRD 211 8
54'                                  St352-                                                                                                        50°                                                                      48°
SAO              PAULO                                                                                                      BRAZIL
MATO  GROSSO                                 )//w+t<L, faZa2£;8oetsill r*>                                      ,1                                                                           LAND MANAGEMENT I PROJECT - PARANA
i,v   '   /  +*f-ll's  )CK                                             PROJECT AREA - LIME DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES,
DO  SUL                                                                                                                                                                                             STATE PARKS, AND FOREST RESERVES
PROJECT LtNO-_PROJECT  EXIST NG
T. p  .    >  trua  5g-   rO Ourinb.,  +   |  I    Roilroodl,
Poved Roods
OO                                                          Co"61O ee)  I                                 P                                                RilroodTernT--ls (for ime)
' f 3 >Jb _ , / > t   LondrinO I J'£orea,inho 5 v8a2"                        9 -\  Q, (D    Limre Deposits
L-dk  _   r   9   di!  ; >   \              (t           ,, 1,                                          *    SEAB Rgio-ol Offices (NRs)
F.... Cent-r
Stole Pork5
Stote Fore, R--en
Marunrbi Pork
Ad,,,mit,tti- -nd Tn rr    .-,  - rrg Center
Co.ro Towe,
F Umuoro= 7=4_Cianor g-   r                                                                                                                                 \t f, > ) 9\ 2 --- SEAB Regi-nol Offic1-Seo  e ndor,
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t>  Iir ;Vl Ric.                                                                                                                                                        </Nj Main Ri-,r
/ X r -2 1 / l A                                                                                                                     i   <  X I r  > *^ M-s region Boundories
24'    +         ,                                  |             Compo Mouro7    /            (             M  S       ~     %             )  ~   ~ J                         _  J     \                                     _   _   stte tCPruto                                      24'
t   k  <  J  /  \_  2  lwoiporsv <  tS, ,_) ;=;i$  rO f2Prore _, _ Internationol boundaries~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  InernSrool oonoro
A  >  ,1   /                l  \\             i 1          \         \   Geroldo Russi                   ,pX                    ) rO Pinhol:;nho                     A112nmenl or fufuw .aillood is aPp oximas~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ar,noer oE,trerorroo., pprorrra
t  t - A=    -  / / <                            \ , '  i                                            t                                      lau.a.s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A io.
)                                               T,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
ledo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~d  e                                                                                          org,9 
-t. G-J,  Ri. B-cc,RodeO8a 
"' P°RUOUUe '                                                                                                                                                tD d. S-    'w
onrrnre WWL Sr.son.S   .SL                                                             -n         93                          U  '  rnio                      50                00,,             50 MarOtERS                 rOlEi ernoR   ,    ¾
mlrooOor a, a_ Lh ,., 'mOU . -                                                                                                                                  ilt . V                                                                                       < (D  Atl\nl
on his m dsp siof i/wsV 1w rw   S                                                                                                                                                         O                 L   N. _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~itb  O  
,u."usmr.^s   5f'  {     52                                                                    500                                                                       , \           jU5oGLAA           OCTOBER 19Ed~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCOBR  95



