                                         Documentof
                                      The World Bank

                              FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                      ReportNo: 44788-AF




                                      PROJECTPAPER

                                      ONA PROPOSED

                   EMERGENCY ADDITIONAL FINANCINGGRANT

         UNDERTHE FOODPRICECRISISRESPONSE(FPCR) TRUST FUND


                  INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$8.0MILLIONEQUIVALENT


                                          TO THE


                          ISLAMICREPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                          FOR THE


                            FOOD CRISIS RESPONSEPROJECT


                                         July 21,2008




SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
Agriculture andRuralDevelopmentUnit
Afghanistan CountryManagementUnit
SouthAsia Region

This document has arestricted distributionand maybe usedbyrecipients only inthe performance
o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.

          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

       (ExchangeRateEffective, 22 July2008)
         CurrencyUnit = Afghani (AFN.)
                US$1. = AFN50.06
                 US$1 = SDR.61

                  FISCALYEAR
               April 1 - March31

      ABBREVTATIONSAND ACRONYMS




        Vice President:    IsabelM.Guerrero
Acting CountryDirector:    MariamJ. Sherman
        Sector Director:   ConstanceA. Bernard
        Sector Manager:    Adolfo Brizzi
     Task TeamLeader:      Qazi Azmat Isa




                        ..
                        11

                            TABLEOFCONTENTS

                                                              PAGE

I. INTRODUCTION                                                  2

11.    BACKGROUND FOOD
                   ON      CRISIS                                2
III.  DONOR RESPONSE                                             3

Iv.    RATIONAL FORFINANCING FROMFPCR& USINGEXISTINGPROGRAMFOR
       IMPLEMENTATION 3

v.     PROJECT COMPONENTS& COSTS                                5

VI.    CONSISTENCYWITH THE COUNTRY ASSISTANCESTRATEGY            7

MI. IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS&APPRAISAL                        7

VIII. EXPECTED   OUTPUTS AND OUTCOMES                           10

Ix.    BENEFITS AND RISKS                                       10

x.     FINANCIAL TERMSAND CONDITIONSFORTHE FINANCING            11



ANNEXES:

    1. DONORRESPONSEMATRIX                                      12




                                     ...
                                     111


                             PROJECTPAPER      DATA  SHEET


                                                                      er: Constance A.

Response Project                               Acting CountryDirector:MariamJ.
ProjectID: P113199


Responsible agency: Ministryo fRural Rehabilitationand Development




Project development objectives/outcomes
 To enhance wheat and other cereal production by supporting small scale irrigation at the
 community level through increase of irrigated land area and capacity building o f
 communities to implement and maintain irrigation sector sub projects that address
 community needs.

~
Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? No
          -
                                     For Financine
 [ 3 Loan  [ ] Credit  [X ] Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
        Total Bank financing (US$m.):    8.0 million
        Proposedterms: Standard FPCR trust hndterms

I.INTRODUCTION

1.       This Project Paper seeks the approval o f a grant inthe amount of US$8.0 million
to the Afghanistan Food Crisis Response Project (P113199). The operation i s being
undertaken under the Global Food Crisis Program and will be financed out o f the Food
Price Crisis Response Trust Fund.


2.       The proposed grant would help finance approximately 500 small scale,
community implemented and maintained irrigation schemes in the provinces most
affected by the recent food price increases. The project would be implemented by the
Ministryof Rural and Rehabilitation and Development through its National Solidarity
Program. The closing date will be 30 September, 2010.

11.BACKGROUND FOOD OF        CRISIS

3.       Afghanistan's food grain consumption patterns are dominated by wheat
accounting for about 80% o ftotal cereal demand. The country i s currently suffering from
a serious food crisis with wheat prices increasing by 160% over the past year (May 07-
May 08). These price increases are even higher in wheat-deficit regions due to high
transportation costs makingexpensive importedwheat cheaper than domestically sourced
wheat from surplus regions. Overall food inflation i s also significant with the CPI in
May2008 62% higherthana year before (May 2007).

4.       The current food crisis stems primarily from three developments: (i) global
                                                                                large
food price increases which have translated directly into food price increases in the
country given the dependence on imports to meet a significant part of total domestic
consumption (normally about 25-30 percent of food grain requirements); (ii)       increasing
restrictions on wheat exports by Pakistan (source o f 60 percent o f Afghanistan's food
imports), including an export ban and crackdown on unofficial exports; and (iii) sub- a
normal wheat harvest reflecting below average and late springrains that have particularly
affected rain-fed wheat.     The Agriculture Prospects Survey from the Ministry o f
Agriculture, Irrigation, and Livestock is still not finalized but there are indications that
wheat production this year is significantly less than in2007. It i s estimated that drought
cut this year's rain-fed crop by 80% while early snow melting reduced wheat yields on
irrigated landsby 30-40%.

5.       Food insecurity in the country this year is quite high with the shortfall in wheat
production increasing from 0.5MMT in2007 to 2 M M T in2008. Actual wheat needs in
the country exceeds the shortfall of two MMT as this assumes perfect distribution within
Afghanistanwhile inrealitythere are surplus anddeficit areas.

6.       The food price increases will have a serious impact on poverty levels in the
country. Afghanistan has low average per-capita income with food being a very large
part o f the consumption basket. The average Afghan household now spends between 70-
80% o f total household expenditure on food. Poverty rates are high, ranging from 33


                                             2

percent in the high food consumption season to 42 percent in the lean season. The
increase in food prices will not only affect those below the poverty line but also an
additional 20% o f the population (6 million) who arejust above the poverty line and are
highlyvulnerable to shocks.



111.DONOR     RESPONSE& COORDINATION



7.      Inresponseto the food crisis, the Government ofAfghanistan(GOA) has lowered
the import tariff on wheat and wheat flour from 2.5 percent to 0 percent in February
2008. However, given the supply issue from Pakistan, the impact i s expected to be
limited. Recently, Pakistan agreed to export 50,000 tons o f wheat which i s only 10% o f
what they used to export to Afghanistan.

8.      The Ministry o f Agriculture, Irrigation and Livestock has also made an appeal for
US$2.5 billion inMay 2008 for covering emergency, short-term and mid-termprograms
o fMAIL for preventingshortage o f food supply and increasing agricultural production in
Afghanistan.

9.      InJanuary 2008, UNOrganizations (WFP, WHO, UNICEF) made an appeal for
humanitarianassistance amount to US$ 79 million for 2.6 million vulnerable people to
provide 88 thousand tons o f wheat. This appeal succeeded in bringing in 87,100MT o f
food, all o f which will be distributed by the end o f August. A second appeal has been
issued in July 2008 jointly by the UN organizations and the government for US$404.3
million over 12 months covering food security (food and cash for work), water sanitation
&hygiene, health, agriculture (improved seed, fertilizer, animal feed), andprotection.

10.     In addition to these initiatives, USAID and DFID are funding US$ 34 million
through the Afghanistan Vouchers for Increased Production in Agriculture (AVIPA)
program. This program will assist approximately 200,000 drought-affected farmers in
the nine priority provinces targeted by MAIL. It is estimated that this will meet 20
percent o f actual needs. The table in Annex 1 outlines the main initiatives taken by
various donors to address food security.


Iv.RATIONALEFORFINANCINGFROMFPCR&USINGEXISTINGNATIONAL
SOLIDARITYPROGRAMFORIMPLEMENTATION

11.     This program document seeks financing from the Food Policy Crisis Response
(FPCPR) Trust Fundfor the National Solidarity Program 2 being supported by IDA. One
o f the priorities o f the FPCR resources i s to reduce the mediumterm impacts o f the food
crisis, and irrigation rehabilitation is an effective way o f achieving this. Afghanistan
currently imports about 20-30 percent of its requirements in a normal year, andcan reach
80-90 percent food self-sufficiency in a bumper-harvest year. Therefore, supporting
enhancement of local production o f wheat would help to ameliorate shortages and help
achieve self-sufficiency in normal years. Considering that nearly 70 percent o f


                                                3

 Afghanistanwheat production comes from irrigatedlands where the yields are 2 to 4 time
 higher than rain-fed areas, wheat productivity enhancement program must focus on
 irrigation improvement.

 12.     The Bank is currently supporting irrigation rehabilitation under two ongoing
 projects, the National Solidarity Program (NSP) and the Emergency Irrigation
 RehabilitationProject (EIRP). Boththe NSP and EIRP are performing well with country
 wide coverage and good outcomes in terms o f incremental area brought under irrigation
 and incremental agricultural projection. EIRP supports medium (750 ha) and large
 irrigation schemes (>750 ha) with a relatively long gestation period at 2-3 years from
 identification to completion. The NSP, however, caters to the irrigation rehabilitation
 needs o f relatively smaller schemes identified and implemented by local communities
 with a much shorter implementation period (<2 years).       Using NSP as a vehicle, it is
 possible to rehabilitate the much needed irrigation systems quickly in very remote parts
 o f the country. Inresponse to the current food crisis, the Bank i s in a good position to
 provide enhanced support to such irrigationrelated projects.

 13.     The National Solidarity Program Phase 2 (NSP 2) i s a continuation o f the
 National Solidarity Program (NSP 1) addressing key development issues such as
 strengthening o f local governance and rural infrastructure reconstruction. NSP 2 was
 approved by the Board on November 10, 2006 and became effective on 15 May, 2007.
NSP 2 was designed to build on the success o f NSP 1 by scaling up the program and
 reaching out to additional new communities. The Project Development Objective o fNSP
 2 i s to strengthen community level governance, and support community-managed
 subprojects comprising reconstruction and development that improves access o f rural
 communities to social and productive infrastructure and services. The program has
 expanded rapidly to 346 districts in all 34 provinces o f Afghanistan in its second phase.
 As o f June 2008, more than 21,879 communities have been mobilized. 21,339 o f these
 communities have successfully elected Community Development Councils (CDCs); o f
 these 20,834 have formulated Community Development Plans (CDPs); and submitted
 40,333 sub-projects for approval; o f which 38,449 have been approved; and 21,333
 completed.    About 79 percent o f the sub-projects develop productive infrastructure:
water supply & sanitation (24 percent), rural roads (23 percent), irrigation (16 percent),
 village electrification (15 percent).   There are different types o f subprojects in the
irrigation sector the most common o f which are irrigation canals (23 percent), flood
protection walls (21 percent), Karez' (21 percent), intakes (9 percent), and community
level water reservoirs (7 percent).

 14.     As mentioned above, about 16 percent o f total infrastructure projects prioritized
by communities under NSP are irrigation related; makingit apparent that there is a high
community demand with irrigation being the third most common priority. Currently a
total o f 7,911 projects inthe irrigation sector have requested funding from NSP. Of this
number, 2,523 project proposals havenot yet received any fundingfrom NSP. There is a
large m e t demand for irrigation schemes under the NSP because o f a shortage o f funds
and as a result NSP 2 canbenefit greatly from FPCR funding for projects inthe irrigation

 'Undergroundirrigations
~




                        systems


                                              4

sector. The FPCR resources would support approximately 500 unfunded sub-projects in
the irrigation sector inthe provinces most severely affected bythe food crisis. The client
has beenrequested to provide a list o f 500 sub projects from the most severely affected
areas prior to implementation.

v.PROJECTCOMPONENTS          & COSTS

15.     This financing would be for NSP 2 irrigation sector subprojects in the provinces
most affected by the recent food price increases. The implementation partner, Ministry
o fRural Rehabilitation andDevelopment (MRRD)will identifythe irrigation subprojects
prioritized bycommunities inthese provinces at the initial stages o fthis project.

16.     The proposed financing of US$S.O million will be provided under a separate
Financing Agreement. Project costs for this proposed financing under each component i s
shown inthe project cost table below. The bulk o f the financing, i.e. US$7 million (87.5
percent) will go towards building small-scale irrigation projects in the most vulnerable
provinces.

17.     Costs under Community Facilitation and Capacity Building include Facilitating
Partner (FP) costs at 7.5 percent o f total block grant funding and includes the costs for
goods, services, and operations costs o f NSP FPs. The FPs have already been hired on a
competitive basis by the existing NSP program within the MRRD. FPs contracts are
performance based so that facilitating partners are held accountable for performance
against output targets such as number o f communities with completed sub-projects and
numbero fcommunities with fully utilizedblock grants.

18.     The costs under Implementation Management Support include both NSP
Management Support Consultant and MRRD management costs representing only 5
percent o ftotal block grant costs and comprising incremental expenses incurred inproject
implementation and management.         This includes costs of services and operational
expenses at the central, regional, andprovincial levels.




                                              5

                             ProjectCostTable




A. BlockGrant Disbursement
                                         Block Grants to CDCs for    7,000,000
                                         500 irrigationprojects
                                         (Average irrigation
                                         project US$ 14,000)
                SubtotalComponentA:                                  7,000,000
B. CommunityFacilitation and Capacity
Building
                                         Operating Costs and           600,000
                                         incremental operation
                                         expenditures
                SubtotalComponentB:                                    600,000
C. Implementationand Management
Support
                                         Operation costs and           400,000
                                         incremental operation
                                         expenditures
                SubtotalComponentC:     1                              400,000
TOTAL                                                                8.000.000




                                     6

VI. CONSISTENCYWITHTHE COUNTRY ASSISTANCESTRATEGY

19.      Rural Afghanistan i s home to nearly 80 percent o f the population, where
incidence of poverty i s high, penetration of insurgency i s growing, and opium production
i s booming, as the country recovers from the long-term effects o f the recently ended six-
year drought.     Agriculture and Rural Development i s one o f the key sectors in the
"Economic and Social Development" Pillar o f the Afghanistan National Development
Strategy (ANDs). The ANDs was approved by the President o f Afghanistan and
presented to the donors on April 29, 2008.         The GOA'Ssectoral strategy includes
investment programs in rural infrastructure (e.g., irrigation and water management,
drinking water, electrification, rural roads, school) and community development that
facilitates participation o frural communities inlocal governance.

20.      The NSP i s in line with the ANDs and its sectoral strategy for Agriculture and
Rural Development. This flagship project of the Government o f Afghanistan (GOA)has
to date, assisted more than 21,339 communities in 346 districts in all 34 provinces o f
Afghanistanin electing Community Development Councils (CDCs), which are the basis
for local governance and community development. Buildingon the success o f the first
phase o f the NSP, the NSP 2 will continue assisting the MRRD in community
mobilization, election o f CDCs, designing Community Development Plans (CDPs) and
implementing sub-projects developed by communities.



VII. IMPLEMENTATION       ARRANGEMENTSAPPRAISAL
                                            &

Overall

21.      The   Project    Development     Objectives,   components,     arrangements   for
implementation, procurement, financial management, and disbursements would remain
unchanged.      The project duration will be two years closing 30 September 2010.
Experience so far inNSP 1shows implementation o f irrigation sub projects taking longer
than 2 years. This was mainly due to shortages o f funds which resulted in delays in
disbursement o f block grants to communities. With assured earmarked funding from
FPCR for the irrigation schemes, however, implementation period i s expected to be
shorter and sub projects should be completed within a period o ftwo years.

Institutiona1

22.      The activities under the proposed financing would be similar to the ones already
being financed under the ongoing project and would be carried out using the existing
implementation arrangements. The project would be executed by the NSP under the
MRRDandimplementedbythecontractedNSP, FPsintheproject districts.

23.      The NSPMRRD carries out core functions such as policy and strategy
development o f NSP, coordination with other ministries, external relations with donors,
resource mobilization, management o frelations with FacilitatingPartners (FPs), appraisal


                                              7

and processing of sub-project proposals, engineering, monitoring and quality assurance -
focusing on achievements, outcomes and program impact, and training and capacity
development at central and regional levels.

24.     Provincial MRRDoffices will continue to be responsible for overseeing the work
o f the FPs. The provincial offices are responsible for approving sub project proposals,
providing technical support to communities and FPs, and carrying out monthly
monitoring field visits.

25.     The primary role o f the FPs would be to continue the provision o f support to
Community Development Councils in implementing the subprojects.                The FPs are
contracted by MRRD to facilitate the NSP at the community level.               The FPs are
contracted to support rural communities inundertakingthe following activities:
        a) establish inclusive Community Development Councils through free and fair
            elections,
        b) assist communities inidentifying andprioritizing local development needs,
        c) assist inthe preparation o f sub-project proposals for appraisal byMRRD,
        d) monitor the implementation o f sub-project proposals andprovide any required
            technical assistance,
        e) build capacity o f community members in project planning, financial record
            keeping, and operationandmaintenance o f community assets.

Financial Management

26.     Fund management will follow             existing procedures      for  the    ongoing
implementation o f the NSP 2. The main component under the project will be community
Block Grants for irrigation sub-projects. Funds for these grants will be transferred to the
community bank account. Evidence o f utilization o f previous advance for the purpose
intended including progress reports and bank statements from communities will be
provided through the MRRD to the Ministry o f Finance before submission o f direct
payment withdrawal application for the next advance to the Bank. The existing NSP,
financial management arrangements will be able to handle the increased work arising
from the additional activities o fthe new project.

27.     The program's financial accounts are audited each year by the Control and Audit
Office o f Afghanistan, with the support o f an international audit firm. Costs for this audit
are not included in this financing request because they are covered by another project.
The Bank carries out regular statement o f expenses reviews o f both the project
management accounts andthose o fthe CDCs.

28.     The recent Mid-Term Review (MTR) o f the NSP 2 completed inJuly 2008 found
there was considerable room for strengthening NSP financial management. Based on the
recommendations from this MTR, several actions were agreed upon between NSP and
the World Bank. The World Bank and NSP will also hold monthly meetings to ensure
regular follow up on progress on these agreed actions.




                                              8

Procurement

29.     The procurement arrangementsthat apply to this financing will be similar to those
applicable to IDA Grants and will follow "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and Credits - May 2004" and "Guidelines for Selection and Employment o f
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers -May 2004" andrevisedinOctober 2006.


30.     Procurement arrangements under NSP 2 have suffered due to the lack of senior
management in the NSP Procurement Department. The recent MTR also resulted in
agreed actions for improving procurement performance implementation which will be
closely monitoredbythe World Bank.

TechnicalAspects

31.     The Technical Support Department (TSD) o f the NSP is satisfactory and has
made good progress in strengthening its capacity. An NSP Technical Manual provides
FPs considerable guidance in developing infrastructure sub project proposals which are
thenapprovedbyNSPprior to disbursementofblock grantsto communities.

32.     The TSD can be further strengthened by enhancing the focus on the regional and
provincial levels and decentralizing most o f the technical reviews and enhancing the
supervision capacity o f the provincial and regional offices with more engineering staff.

Environmental and Social Safeguards

33.     This new project will have no significant irreversible environmental and social
impacts.    However, water user associations would require strengthening for better
maintenance o f irrigation schemes and there would be need for better coordination
between them and the CDCs. Sub project approvals under NSP are to be in accordance
with the Environmental and Social Safeguard Management Framework included in the
Technical Annex. NSP needs to improve compliance with the ESSMF. The main
problem with safeguard compliance has been the lack o f adequate staffing at NSP to
address these issues. An environmental focal point hasjust recently been appointed and a
social safeguard focal point is to be selected soon. Decentralized field level training on
environmental and social safeguards to all relevant field staff o f NSP and FPs i s also
planned in August - December 2008. These measures are expected to improve
documentation and better address community compensation incases of landacquisition.

Economic Analysis

34.     An economic benefit analysis o f 200 sample NSP subprojects across five regions
finds that the returns to outputs are immediate, and evidence suggests that the benefits to
villagers are high. A sample o f 29 irrigation subprojects selected for economic analysis
from NSP Ishowed economic rates o f return (ERR) from 20- 31 percent across all
regions, with an overall ERR weighted average o f 24 percent. Irrigated land area



                                             9

increased by 31 percent, wheat yield increased by 40 percent, and gross income from
wheat increased by 37 percent as a direct result o f the NSP irrigation sector projects

VIII. EXPECTED      OUTCOMES


35.      The overall expected outcome o f this program i s the implementation and
maintenance o f irrigation sector sub projects that address community needs. The outcome
indicators are listedbelow.



 Project Development              Project Outcome Indicators:
 Objective
 To enhance wheat and other            At least 500irrigation sector subprojects are completed.
 cereal production by                  At least 500operations andmaintenanceplans for
 supporting small scale                irrigationprojects are prepared and documented.
 irrigation at the community
 level throughincrease of              At least 500 communities benefitingfkomirrigation

 irrigatedland area and                related sub projects.

 capacity buildingo f                  At least 15,000 familiesbenefiting fkom irrigation
 communities to implement and          related sub projects.
 maintain irrigation sector sub            A 30percent increase inarea o firrigatedlandinthe
 projects that address                 project areas.
 community needs.




Ix.BENEFITSAND       R I S K S

36.      Benefits-As one o fthepriorities o fthe FPCR resources is to reduce the medium
term impacts o f the food crisis, irrigation rehabilitation is an effective way o f achieving
this. Irrigation rehabilitation investments generally yield high economic returns and this
is particularly true for Afghanistan. This financing will help rehabilitate irrigation
schemes for expanding wheat and other cereal production in the medium term.
Considering that nearly 70 percent o f Afghanistan's wheat production comes from
irrigated lands where the yields are 2-4 times higher than in rain-fed areas, a wheat
productivity enhancement programmust focus on irrigation improvement.

37.      Risks-The various risks the project faces andmeasuresto mitigate them are
summarized below:

Risk                               MitigationPlan

Lack o fproper operations and      Emphasis on developing Operations and Maintenance
maintenance plans for sub          Plansbythe community which identifies keypeople
projects by rural communities.     within the community responsible for maintenance o f
                                   the sub project. The O&M planmust also provide for
                                   community savings that can be usedto cover costs o f


                                               10

Risk                           MitigationPlan

                               maintenance.

Insufficient technical support NSPMRRDto closelymonitor FPsto ensure proper
to communities during sub      technical support i s provided to communities during
project implementationby       project implementation and that technical training i s
Facilitating Partners.         provided for operations and maintenance o f the project.

Security situation inthe       Though the security i s beyond the control of this project,
country remains fluid which    FPs try to minimize these risksbyhiringstaff locally
can result intemporary or      from within the communities they work in.Inaddition,
permanent suspensionso f       prior to beginningNSP inany districts, FPs first meet
implementation incertain       with local power holders to ensure their buy-infrom the
regions.                       onset o fthe program

The long andharshwinters in NSP/MRRD i s to ensure that communities receive their
Afghanistanresult ina short    block grants prior to implementation season (May-
window for sub project         October) to ensure that projects are completedintime.
implementationwhich causes
delay inproject completion.



X. FINANCIALTERMS      ANDCONDITIONS FORTHEFINANCING

38.    The proposed grant would be standardFPCR trust fund terms.




                                          11

Annex 1:AfghanistanFoodSecurityCurrent andExpectedSupport byvarious donors

  Donor         Natureofsupport                   Obiective           Amount         ~~
                                                                                       Remarks
 USAID Grantto give loansto seed            To ensure sufficient     USA- $ 3  Requirement
  DfID      enterprises across              certified seed i s       M;        estimated by FA0 i s
            Afghanistan to purchase         available for 2008       DflD$3 US$15 M
            certified seed from their       autumn planting          M
            contract growers                especially inthe
                                            provinces where the
                                            voucher scheme for
                                            drought affected
                                            provinces will be
                                            implemented (see
                                            below).
  USA,     Voucher scheme to                Increase purchasing       USA-     Scheme expandable
  DfID      support farmers inthe           power o fpoor             $ 3 0 M; to U S $60m. Would
           most drought affected            farmers to purchase       DfID-    assist approximately
           provinces inthe North and         seeds, fertilizers and    $ 4 m   200,000
           NorthWest o fthe country.        tools. Implemented                 drought-affected
                                            throughprivate                     small-holder farmers
                                            sector agriculture                 inthe nineprovinces
                                            inputproviders.                    targeted by
                                                                               MAIL.This may
                                                                               meet about 20
                                                                               percent o f the actual
                                                                               need

  DfID     contributionto the               Targeted program     to   U S 6 m
           anticipated second WFP           the most vulnerable      (expected
           appealto provide cash or         households                    )
           food.

  DfID     Voucher scheme in                Provide inputs to        $ 4 m (US Close monitoring
           Helmand                          farmers and link         2mfrom    would be done to
                                            them to private          DFIDand   ensure resources are
                                            sector buyers for        US$2m     not used for growing
                                            wheat, barley and        from the  POPPY
                                            alfalfa. This            PRT)
                                            programhas both
                                            CNand food
                                            security objectives
ADB2       considering program              $ 6 m o f the funds      $30
           grants ($30 m) as budget         would be allocated       million
           support (this is at an early     for irrigationrehab.
           stage)
  ADB      ADB is doing fact finding        Three main               $52 m     ADB has allocated a
           for a project on                 components (i)                     total o f $ 1.3 billion
           commercial agriculture           improved                           for 2009-2013, o f


* US$6 million for irrigation may possibly co-finance the IDA supported EIR.


                                                    12

 Donor     Natureof support                Objective            Amount               Remarks
       development.                   agnculture                               which $200 mi s for
                                      commodity value                          agriculture
                                      chain efficiency; (ii)
                                      improving access to
                                      finance; and (iii)
                                      strengthening
                                      regulatory policy
                                      and enabling

      .                               environment
 World Support for small scale        Enhance wheat             $8             Projectdocument
 Bank  irrigation schemes            productivity               million        underpreparationto
                                                                               seek FPCR resources
   EC  Supporting a wheat seed                                                 FA0estimates the
       multiplication project (still                                           300,000 tons needed
       inearly stages)                                                         butlast year only
                                                                               about 8,000 t were
                                                                               produced(16,000 t i s
                                                                               the target for this
                                                                               Year)
       Supports a Food,               Project executedby                       The Unitmay be a
       Agriculture and Animal         FAO, supports a                          good source o f data
       HusbandryMarket                Statistical Unit in                      for our ESW work
       Information Project            MAIL.                                    on foodprices.

       Supports several projects
       inthe MinistryofRural
       Rehabilitationand
       Development (MRRD),
       including a rural access
       project; the National Risk
       and Vulnerability Project;
       a Horticulture Project; and
       an Animal HealthProject.
ECHO                                                                           Through FAO,
                                     provinces                   million       ICRC, others
       Food aid (Jan 07 -June         Inselected                Euro 6         Through WFP,
                                                                               NGOs
BMZ    Food Aid                       provincesCountry wide     millionEuro 3  Through WFP
(Germa                                                          million
ny)                                                           I
                                    I                          I
Canada Food aid (ongoing)
                    -    -          I
                                    I widekandahar
                                      country                   US$48.0        Through WFP
                                                                    M


UNICE  January 2008 (for period                                                o f wheat distributed;
F, WHO Jan-June 2008)                temporary safety net                      remaining wheat
                                      for 425,000                              now available inthe
                                      vulnerable rural and                     regionhubs

Donor                                Objective    Amount        Remarks
                                (2.55 million
                                beneficiaries).
WFP,  Second Appeal (July 2008- Food Security,     US$     Food Security $
FAO,  July 2009)               Nutrition, Water    404.3   203M
UNICE                           Sanitation and     million Nutrition $4.4 M
F,                              Hygiene, Health,           W A S H $11.5 M
UNAM                            Agriculture, and           Health $8 M
A                               Protection.                Agnculture $176.7
                                                           M
                                                           Protection $0.5 M




                                      14

