                                      Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR1968



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (TF-92680)



                                        ON A

                                       GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 8 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                     ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                       FOR A

                       FOOD CRISIS RESPONSE PROJECT



                                 October 25, 2011




Sustainable Development Department
Afghanistan Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                               (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2011)

                                         Currency Unit = Afghani
                                          Afn 1.00 = US$ 0.021
                                          US$ 1.00 = Afn 47.35

                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                           March 21 - March 20


                                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AF       Additional Financing                          IDA       International Development Association
AFN      Afghanis                                      IMST      Implementation Management Support Team
ANDS     Afghanistan National Development              IPM       Integrated Pest Management
         Strategy                                      IM        Implementing Partners
ARTF     Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund         IP        Implementation Monitoring
ARD      Agriculture Rural Development                 MAAHF-    Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and
BG       Block Grants                                            Forestry
                                                       MAIL      Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation and Livestock
CBAHWs   Community-based Animal Health Workers         MIS       Management Information System
CDC      Community Development Council                 MoF       Ministry of Finance
CDD      Community Demand Driven                       MRRD      Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development
CDP      Community Development Plan
EC       European Commission                           MTR       Mid Term Review
EIRP     Emergency Irrigation Rehabilitation Project   NSC       National Steering Committee
ESMF     Environmental and Social Management           NOL       No Objection Letter
         Framework                                     NSP       National Solidarity Program
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization             NSP I     National Solidarity Program Phase I
FP       Facilitating Partner                          NSP II    National Solidarity Program Phase II
FCRP     Food Crisis Response Project                  NSP III   National Solidarity Program Phase III
FCRTF    Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund         O&M       Operation and Maintenance
GDP      Gross Domestic Product                        PDO       Project Development Objective
GDLPD    General Department for Livestock              PMU       Project Paper
         Protection and Development                    PP        Provincial Management Unit
GFRP     Global Fund Crisis Response Program           POI       Project Output Indicator
GoA      Government of Afghanistan
                                                       PY        Project Year
HRAS     High Risk Areas Strategy                      QALP      Quality Assessment of Lending Program
ICRR     Implementation Completion and Results         UNDP      United Nations Development Program
         Report                                        VC        Village Councils


                                      Vice President: Isabel Guerrero
                                    Country Director: Nicholas J. Krafft
                                     Sector Manager: Simeon K. Ehui
                                Project Team Leader: Ladisy Komba Chengula
                                   ICR Team Leader: Ladisy Komba Chengula



                                                         ii
                                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
                                     FOOD CRISIS RESPONSE PROJECT




                                                        CONTENTS




     Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information...................................................................................................... iv 
   B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................. iv 
   C. Ratings Summary ...................................................................................................... iv 
   D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... v 
   E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... v 
   F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... v 
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................. vii 
   H. Restructuring (if any) ............................................................................................... vii 
   I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................ vii 
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 3 
3. Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................................ 6 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 11 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 11 
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 13 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 14 
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 15 
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 16 
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 18 
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 21 
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results (Summer-Autumn 2009) ...................................... 22 
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results (Summer-Autumn 2009) ...................................... 22 
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 26 
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 27 
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................... 32 
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 33 

MAP IBRD No. 33358




                                                                   iii
    A. Basic Information
Country:                    Afghanistan Project Name:             Food Crisis Response Project
Project ID:                 P113199      L/C/TF Number(s): TF-92680
ICR Date:                   05/30/2011 ICR Type:                  Core ICR
Lending Instrument:         ERL          Borrower:                Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
Original Total Commitment: US$8.0M        Disbursed Amount: US$7.9M
Revised Amount:             US$7.9M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development (MRRD)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: None


    B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process            Date               Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/24/2008      Effectiveness:                               09-11-2008
Appraisal:                            Restructuring(s):              n/a               n/a
Approval:             08/05/2008      Mid-term Review:               n/a               n/a
                                      Closing:                   09/30/2010        09/30/2010


    C. Ratings Summary
    C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Significant
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory


   C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
            Bank                  Ratings         Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory      Government:          Satisfactory
                                          Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                          Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                              Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                              Performance:




                                                 iv
    C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                              Indicators                                      Rating
      Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                   Quality at Entry
                           No                                          None
at any time (Yes/No):                        (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                      Quality of
                           No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


    D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Irrigation and drainage                                         100               100

Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Global food crisis response                                      100              100

    E. Bank Staff
Positions                  At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero             Isabel M. Guerrero
Country Director:          Nicholas J. Krafft             Mariam J. Sherman (Acting)
Sector Manager:             Simeon Ehui                   Adolfo Brizzi
Project Team Leader:       Ladisy Komba Chengula          Qazi Azmat Isa
ICR Team Leader:           Ladisy Komba Chengula
ICR Primary Author:        Juan B. Morelli




    F. Results Framework Analysis


Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the project is to enhance wheat and other cereal production by
supporting small scale irrigation at the community level through increase of irrigation
land area and capacity building of communities to implement and maintain irrigation
sector sub-projects that addresses community needs.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
No revision to PDO was introduced

                                              v
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                         Original Target Formally          Actual Value
                                           Values (from      Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                             approval        Target       Completion or
                                            documents)       Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 : Number of irrigation sector sub-projects completed.
Value
                                         At least 500 sub-
quantitative or 0                                                        474 sub-projects
                                         projects
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/11/2008                 09/30/2010                     09/30/2010
                 About 84 percent of the 500 targeted schemes have been completed: 474
Comments
                schemes were financed, of which 420 were completed. Block grants for
(incl. %
                the on-going 54 irrigation schemes have been disbursed to the
achievement)
                communities’ bank accounts.
Indicator 2 : Number of communities benefiting from irrigation related sub projects
Value
                                         At least 500
quantitative or 0                                                        474 sub-projects
                                         communities
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/11/2008                 09/30/2010                     09/30/2010
Comments
                About 95 percent of the 500 targeted communities have benefited from
(incl. %
                schemes financed through the FCRP.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : A 30 percent increase in area of irrigated land in the project areas.
                                                                         N/A, but similar
Value
                Baseline survey is                                      NSP II schemes
quantitative or                          30 % increase
                underway                                                resulted in 32%
Qualitative)
                                                                        increase
Date achieved 09/11/2008                 09/30/2010                     09/30/2010
                A sample of 29 irrigation schemes financed under NSP II, which are
Comments
                similar to FCRP-funded schemes, showed 64% increase in income due to
(incl. %
                irrigated area expansion and productivity impacts (2008). Irrigated area
achievement)
                expansion in wheat accounted for 32% of the incremental gross income.
                Evidence that the O&M is in place for the completed projects and that
Indicator 4 :
                targeted communities are benefiting from irrigation.
                                         At least 90 % of                100% of
Value
                                         completed                      completed
quantitative or 0
                                         projects have                  schemes have
Qualitative)
                                         O&M plans                      O&M plans
Date achieved 09/11/2008                 09/30/2010                     09/30/2010
Comments        All supported schemes have O&M plans as communities were organized
(incl. %        and trained for O&M of their systems, and the decentralized management
achievement) of NSP and FPs continue to assist them until they are fully operational.
Indicator 5 : ERR of the irrigation sector subprojects
Value           0                        20%                             N/A, but similar
                                               vi
quantitative or                                                      NSP II schemes
Qualitative)                                                         resulted in
                                                                     average ERR 24%
Date achieved 09/11/2008               09/30/2010                    09/30/2010
              Although no estimation was derived from the FCRP subprojects, a sample
Comments
              of 29 similar NSP irrigation schemes was analyzed in 2008 showing an
(incl. %
              average ERR of 24 percent. Similar results are expected to be obtained
achievement)
              from FCRP schemes.

      (b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
This was a short term project (2 years implementation), and as such there were no
intermediate outcome indicators defined or followed.



      G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


                                                                       Actual
          Date ISR
No.                              DO                     IP         Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                   (USD millions)
  1      05/05/2009          Satisfactory           Satisfactory              5.00


      H. Restructuring (if any)
      Not Applicable


      I. Disbursement Profile




                                              vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
With the signing of the Bonn Agreement in December 2001, the Government of
Afghanistan (GoA) began rebuilding a legitimate Afghan state. The government has made
remarkable progress in many areas, such as primary education, basic health services,
irrigation rehabilitation, and rural development. However, the country remains extremely
fragile. Security remains a serious obstacle to the delivery of reconstruction assistance
and the effective implementation of reconstruction programs. Afghanistan’s poverty and
social indicators remain among the lowest in the world. Government capacity is weak
despite improvements; and the pace of implementation of reconstruction programs has
been short of popular expectations. The combination of poverty, insecurity, a drug
economy and poor governance means that the GoA is facing daunting challenges in taking
the reconstruction agenda forward.
In 2007, international prices of food commodities increased substantially; and rapidly in
early 2008, peaking around May-July 2008. Afghanistan was also affected by this food
price crisis. The Afghan food crisis derived mainly from: (i) the large global food price
increases together with the dependence on imports to meet domestic demand; (ii)
increasing restrictions on wheat exports by Pakistan (source of about 60 percent of
Afghanistan’s food imports), including an export ban and crackdown on unofficial
exports; and (iii) a sub-normal wheat harvest in the country reflecting below average and
late spring rains that was particularly affecting rain-fed wheat. The Agriculture Prospects
Survey from the Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation, and Livestock (MAIL) estimated that
drought reduced rain-fed crop by 80%, while early snow melting had reduced wheat yields
on irrigated lands by 30-40%. Moreover, the food price increases were having a serious
impact on poverty levels in the country; mainly because the average per-capita income is
very low and food makes a very large part of the consumption basket (Afghan household
spends between 70-80% of total household income on food). As a result, poverty rates
were high, ranging from 33 percent in the high food consumption season to 42 percent in
the lean season.
In response to the severity of the world food crisis and the need for prompt action, the
World Bank Group set up the Global Food Crisis Response Program (GFCRP) in May
2008, to provide immediate relief to countries hard hit by high food prices, including
Afghanistan. Given other agencies, such as the World Food Program (WFP), World
Health Organization (WHO) and United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) were
providing short term assistance to address the food price crisis; the Bank saw its
comparative advantage as being medium term interventions, through irrigation
rehabilitation and/or construction. In order to expedite the delivery of this project and
target beneficiaries effectively, the Bank decided to implement the GFRP-funded Food
Crisis Response Project (FCRP), through an existing program – the Second National
Solidarity Project (NSP II). The NSP is a Community Driven Development (CDD)
project initiated in 2003 under the Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development
(MRRD), with support from a consortium of international donors coordinated by the
World Bank. To date, NSP implementation has received US$1.3 billion funding support

                                              1
and has become one of the most successful delivery mechanisms of reconstruction
assistance to rural communities in a demand-driven manner in the world. The program
has established approximately 28,000 Community Development Councils (CDCs) across
361 districts in all of Afghanistan’s 34 provinces.
At the time of FCRP design, the NSP II was already addressing the irrigation
rehabilitation needs of relatively smaller schemes identified and implemented by local
communities with a relatively short implementation period (<2 years). Moreover, there
were 2,523 irrigation rehabilitation subprojects prioritized by communities, but were not
yet funded under the NSP II. It was agreed that the FCRP would fund 500 of these un-
funded irrigation projects in provinces, which were most severely affected by the food
price crisis. The NSP II would be a vehicle for implementation of the FCRP and the
arrangements for implementation, procurement, financial management and disbursements
were to be the same; and through the already contracted Facilitating Partners (FPs).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The objective of the FCRP was to enhance wheat and other cereal production by
supporting small scale irrigation at the community level through increase of irrigation land
area; and capacity building of communities to implement and maintain irrigation sub-
projects that addressed community needs.
Project Outcome Indicators (POI) identified in the Project Paper (PP) were: (i) at least 500
irrigation sector sub projects are completed; (ii) at least 500 operations and maintenance
(O&M) plans for irrigation projects are prepared and documented; (iii) at least 500
communities benefiting from irrigation related sub projects; (iv) at least 15,000 families
benefiting from irrigation related sub projects; and (v) 30 percent increase in area of
irrigated land in the project areas.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification
Not applicable

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
As stated above, at FCRP appraisal, a total of 7,911 irrigation projects had requested
support from NSP II, but 2,523 proposals had not yet received any funding. Out of these,
there was a large un-met demand for rehabilitation and/or construction of irrigation
schemes. However, due to insufficient funds, the FCRP target was set to finance 500 sub-
projects, in at least 500 rural communities severely affected by the food price crisis, aimed
at benefiting at least 15,000 households

1.5 Original Components
The FCRP emergency financing grant of US$8 million was agreed to be specifically
devoted to support 500 of the NSP II’s un-funded irrigation sub-projects already designed
and submitted for approval. The FCRP included three components:
A. Block Grants Disbursements (US$7 million, 87.5 percent) would go towards
   building or rehabilitating small-scale irrigation projects in the most vulnerable
   provinces;
                                           2
B. Community Facilitation and Capacity Building (US$600,000, 7.5 percent of total
   grant funding) would finance Facilitating Partner (FP) costs, including goods, services,
   and operations costs of NSP FPs. The FPs were already hired on a competitive basis
   by the on-going NSP II under performance based contracts, so that FPs could be held
   accountable for performance against output targets, such as number of communities
   with completed sub-projects and number with fully utilized block grants (BGs).
C. Implementation and Management Support (US$400,000, 5 percent of total grant
   costs), included both NSP II Management Support Consultant (MSC) and MRRD
   management costs; and comprised incremental expenses incurred in project
   implementation and management. This included costs of services and operational
   expenses at the central, regional, and provincial levels. It was expected that the
   implementation of the irrigation schemes would be reduced from the more than 2 years
   shown under NSP II because processes, such as the CDC election, preparation of the
   community action plan (sub-projects prioritization), and sub-project preparation had
   already been completed.

1.6 Revised Components
Not applicable

1.7 Other significant changes
Not applicable

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Project preparation was completed in less than a month in response to the emergency
posed by the global food price surge that was distressing the country with high domestic
food prices, inflation, and growing levels of food insecurity affecting the poor. The
implementation of the FCRP under the umbrella of the NSP II was the best available
design option for attaining the PDO for two main reasons: (a) the ability of the NSP II to
reach the most remote and marginalized population in a highly participatory manner; and
(b) the existing unmet demand for the rehabilitation and expansion of irrigation schemes
under NSP II, with thousands of CDCs proposals already prepared and ready for
implementation. NSP II had the highest strategic relevance and offered an effective and
sound demand driven design. The Government played a vital and effective role in this
emergency project design phase, particularly through their pro-active leadership of the
MRRD.
The risk assessment and mitigation measures identified in the Emergence Project Paper
(EPP) were pertinent. The FCRP main risks identified included: (i) lack of proper
community Operation and Maintenance (O&M) plans for the improved schemes; (ii)
insufficient FPs’ technical support to communities during implementation; (iii)
implementation suspension in some regions due to lack of security; and (iv) long and
harsh winters allowing for short windows for schemes’ implementation. Main mitigation
measures included: (i) close monitoring of FPs to ensure technical support for

                                              3
implementation, and adequate O&M training provided to communities; (ii) approaching
local power holders and hiring local staff to minimize security risks; (iii) adoption of a
High Risk Areas Strategy (HRAS) for implementation and supervision in areas where
escalating conflict was limiting direct access by government and/or Bank staff; and (iv)
disbursing BG prior to the implementation season to ensure that project could be
completed in time.
Although no specific quality assessment was done for the FCRP, a Bank Panel rated the
Quality of Design, Implementation Progress and Quality of Bank Supervision under the
Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP) of the NSP II and its Additional
Financing (AF) as Satisfactory, and the Likelihood of Achieving Development Objectives
to be Likely (March 2010). The Panel considered that despite the immensely difficult
challenges of implementing a national program in multiple, dispersed geographic locations
in a country facing ongoing conflict, NSP II as the umbrella project for FCRP has been
consistently ahead of schedule in reaching targets and showing good prospects for meeting
its over-arching and subsidiary PDOs.

2.2 Implementation
Implementation progress by the Borrower has been consistently satisfactory within the
NSP II, with disbursements running relatively on schedule in spite of numerous problems,
including: (a) the deteriorating security situation; (b) problems in the timely flow of
funds; (c) inconsistence performance of the FPs; (d) concerns with increased costs and
mixed quality of sub-projects; (e) continued problems in addressing and resolving FM
issues, particularly involving adequate financial controls at the local level, including
instances of non-compliance with several covenants and agreed action plans; and (f)
various constraints and delays involving procurements arrangements, procedures, and
capacities to implement procurement-related activities. NSP provincial offices regularly
monitored the physical work progress of the financed sub-projects reporting to the NSP
headquarters in Kabul.
In addressing the above mentioned implementation issues, the GoA had played a pro-
active role by: (a) developing the HRAS for implementing the project in highly and
extremely insecure districts; (b) meeting regularly with the Ministry of Finance (MoF) to
mitigate delays in payments to FPs and BGs to communities; and (c) monitoring closely
the FPs work through the NSP provincial offices. Most of the measures to address the
problems mentioned above have been implemented successfully, although some, such as
those regarding FM are still work in progress due to the complexities of the program.
Coordination between CDCs and MRRD enabled by all FPs has been good.
There was a slowdown in disbursements from May to December 2009. As a result,
MRRD’s relationship with FPs was affected due to the delays in payments for their
services, as well as in disbursements of BG payments to CDCs. As a consequence, given
the short 2 year implementation period of the FCRP, some sub project were not completed
by the closing date of FCRP on September 30, 2010, but continued to be monitored and
supported under NSP II. As before closing, there were still several sub-projects
incomplete and an unspent balance of US$935,193 million allocated for FP and
operational costs, the Bank received from the GoA an official request for a retroactive

                                             4
extension of the project closing date. But, the Bank did not grant the retroactive project
extension because it is against its policy.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The existing NSP II M&E system and tools, which also covered the FCRP, generated
good and valuable information regularly. The Provincial Management Units (PMUs) and
the FPs met regularly to address day to day issues arising from the implementation of the
FCRP. The M&E and MIS database has been developed and at FCRP closing was
working adequately. Internet bandwidth has been increased at the provincial level and the
Implementation Monitoring (IP) and Post Implementation (PIM) Reports with all
Management Information System (MIS) forms are now entered at provincial level and
quality of reports are, as a result significantly enhanced. An independent evaluation of the
overall NSP II is being done (baseline studies carried out in 2007 and a first survey
undertaken in 2009, with a second survey to be undertaken in the second half of 2011).
The interim report based on the first follow-up survey (see Executive Summary in Annex
5) was disseminated to a range of stakeholders through 5 events between May and July
2010, with the aim to discuss results.
Overall, M&E activities have been continuously improving and have generated useful
information, which is increasingly being used for enhanced decision-making. Its
comprehensive approach involving seven elements (implementation monitoring, post-
implementation monitoring, complaints handling, community participatory monitoring,
baseline survey, ex-post review, analytical studies, and independent impact evaluation) is
of potential use not only for implementation of NSP II and FCRP, but also for other
programs. However, even though the monitoring system allows for some level of impact
assessment and poverty monitoring, it still needs to be refined to provide useful
information for measuring actual results at least on a sample of representative schemes
basis, following-up impacts even after sub-projects have been completed.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Quality of FM oversight has been satisfactory considering the complexity of this relatively
large grant operation that is being implemented on about 15 districts in an uncertain and
conflict-ridden environment, with 6 national and international NGOs acting as FPs, who
provided technical assistance to 474 beneficiary communities at village level. Despite
repeated reminders by way of agreed action plans provided by the Bank Task Team after
each supervision mission, the Borrower had difficulty in meeting some of the fiduciary
requirements within the stipulated deadlines. FM performance had been rated as
Moderately Satisfactory (MS) during the first year of implementation, was downgraded to
Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU) by the November 2009 mission due to the project's
failure to improve to the extent expected. Given the small and scattered nature of project
activities and expenditures, located in conflict areas, FM continue to pose significant
challenges. The Bank team continues to take a pro-active approach to assist NSP
counterparts to address the persistent implementation issues, especially the serious
challenges of coming up with acceptable FM remedial measures within reasonable time
frames.


                                              5
Procurement missions also took place twice a year in conjunction with overall project
supervision. Staffing, procedural and operational issues had been identified and addressed.
The procurement plan had been periodically updated, although not strictly adhered to,
which should be expected given the large number of small contracts and sub-projects.
Supervision reports and post-reviews have focused mostly on government procurement
with little information made available on community level procurement, although note is
taken that an external consultant financed by the Bank carried-out a detailed review of
community procurement, while staff from NSP's procurement structure carried out post
reviews. No fraud and corruption events had been reported.
Environmental aspects were given due consideration during NSP II project preparation
and its MTR; and were fully integrated into the FCRP design. Since community proposals
would be defined after project preparation and, therefore, could not be known up-front at
the time of appraisal, the Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) was
used to provide guiding principles for environmental screening, approval, and supervision
of sub-projects. Established procedures implied identification and rejection of activities in
the negative list of ESMF, and rating the proposed activities as having no significant
negative impacts or having significant impact.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
At FCRP closing, the NSP II continued to operate; and a follow-up operation (NSP III)
which was approved in June 2010, became effective on October 6, 2010. NSP III builds
on both NSP I and II and aims to complete national rollout of the program; and provide
repeater BGs to about 17,000 communities that have fully utilized their first BG. The
closing date of NSP II was extended to September 30, 2011, while the NSP III would
close on September 30, 2015. The on-going NSP III is financed by IDA Grant H603 and
co-financed by ARTF and bilateral donors, as were the preceding phases. Although
sustainability of FCRP sub-projects is uncertain given the security situation of the country,
most of the supported sub-projects are likely to maintain their increased food production
capacity, because communities were organized and trained for O&M of their systems; and
the increasingly decentralized management of NSP and FPs continue to assist subprojects
until they are fully operational.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The project objective of “enhancing wheat and other cereal production by supporting
small scale irrigation at the community level through increase of irrigation land area and
capacity building of communities to implement and maintain irrigation sector sub-projects
that addresses community needs?, continues to be highly relevant under the still poor food
security situation in the prevailing post-conflict context, characterized by unmet needs in
the rural areas. Agriculture and Rural Development (ARD) is one of the key sectors in the
“Economic and Social Development? Pillar of the Afghanistan National Development




                                               6
Strategy (ANDS)1. The GoA’s sectoral strategy includes investment programs in rural
infrastructure (e.g., irrigation and water management, drinking water, electrification, rural
roads, school and health facilities, etc.); and community development to facilitate
participation of rural communities in local governance.
The NSP continues to be in line with the ANDS and its sectoral strategy for ARD, and
continues being the flagship project of the GoA. NSP is also in line with the ARD cluster
strategy developed by GoA and presented at the Kabul Conference in July 2010. NSP and
the FCRP have extremely high relevance in Afghanistan's conflict and food security
setting; the CDD approach continues to be very appropriate and is benefitting from
relevant cross country experience in working in complex conflict areas. Indicators were
clear and measurable; and links between inputs, activities, outputs and outcomes were
reasonable, although some intermediate outcome indicators are fairly output oriented.
Using NSP II as a vehicle for mitigating the food crisis effects through enhanced food
production infrastructure accelerated the rehabilitation of the much needed irrigation
systems in affected areas and in very remote parts of the country.
FCRP was also closely aligned with the second pillar of Bank Interim Strategy Note for
Afghanistan: “promoting growth of the rural economy and improving rural livelihoods?
and is included in the current lending program. Support for rural economic development
remains a priority for the Bank; and IDA´s strategy is to expand successful rural programs,
such as NSP.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
At closing the FCRP showed significant progress towards achievement of the PDO.
About 84 percent of the 500 targeted schemes have been completed: from the 474
irrigation sub-projects financed through the FCRP, 420 were completed. The BGs for the
remaining 54 unfinished sub-projects were fully disbursed into the CDCs’ bank accounts.
Most of these on-going schemes are near completion with slower implementation progress
due to insecurity and/or internal conflict situations in the field. Two schemes were
suspended: one in Herat and the other in Badghis provinces due to insecurity conditions in
the area; and only three schemes were considered as failures: one in Lagham province due
to CDC internal conflicts, and two in Badghis province due to seasonal flood damages.
According to the NSP MIS, the FCRP financed schemes are benefiting about 84,000
families (more than 5 times the targeted 15,000 families). However, this figure should be
taken with caution, since it may represent the total number of families in the recipient
villages, and not all of them are benefited by the improved irrigation systems. There is no
M&E or MIS data on the irrigated area or productivity increases on the FCRP improved
schemes, but there is a general consensus that both indicators are directly linked with the
project outputs, and that both, irrigated areas and food production, have surpassed the




  1
    The ANDS was approved by the President of Afghanistan and presented to the donor
  community on April 29, 2008.

                                               7
targeted 30 percent increase set at appraisal2. However, a sample of 29 NSP II similar
sub-projects analyzed in 2008 showed an actual 32 percent increase in irrigated area due
to the rehabilitated irrigation infrastructure, besides providing improved irrigation
coverage to the existing irrigated area, resulting in about 55 percent of increased
productivity.
Approximately US$7.9 million (99 percent of the grant) had been disbursed, of which
US$6.9 million was disbursed directly to rural communities as BGs for the construction
and/or rehabilitation of the 474 irrigation schemes A Designated Account balance of
US$84,000 was refunded to the Bank. NSP PMUs and FPs are still monitoring the works
progress of the unfinished sub-projects and completion is expected soon. The average BG
per scheme was US$14,550.

3.3 Efficiency
Implementation of irrigation sub-projects led to substantial employment generation and
increased production of food through the construction and/or rehabilitation of 474
communities’ irrigation structures, contributing to increase in GDP at the national level.
An economic analysis was conducted in 2008 evaluated the viability of NSP sub-project
interventions and their impacts on rural communities3. In Annex 3, the results of this
analysis for the irrigation sub-projects are presented. Since the same type of investments
have been financed under the FCRP, similar results are likely to be obtained. The impact
of the irrigation sub-projects on benefitted rural communities has been estimated based on
29 NSP irrigation schemes benefiting 4,704 rural families spread over 58 villages. Actual
irrigation area was increased by 31 percent and productivity of crops increased by 55
percent, resulting in average income increased of more than 64 percent. The estimated
ERRs for all sub-projects varied from 20 percent (north western region) to 31 percent
(central region). Overall, ERR in all 29 sampled irrigation sub-projects was 24 percent.
Over a project life of 10 years and 12 percent discount rate, investment in the sampled
irrigation schemes had generated a net present value (NPV) of Afn13.2 million.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
FCRP objectives, components and approach under the NSP umbrella proved to be highly
relevant to deal with the food prices crisis in the Afghan post-conflict environment. They
were closely aligned with the ANDS’ goal of building an inclusive society through
participatory decision-making and strengthened governance at the village level. There has
been clear progress in achieving the development objective of enhancing food production
by supporting small scale irrigation at the community level, through increasing irrigated
land area and capacity building of communities to implement and maintain irrigation
schemes that respond to community needs. Although only 84 percent of the targeted
schemes were completed, there is evidence that the number of beneficiaries and irrigated


  2
    At the request of the ICRR mission, a sample of 18 schemes were selected for measuring results, but data could not
  be made available in time for this report.
  3
    Ex Post Economic Analysis of National Solidarity Program (NSP). S. Selvarajan. September 2008
                                                           8
area have surpassed the targets. However, CDCs as local governance institutions
structures remain uncertain due to factors outside the control of the GoA, as is the security
situation. Also, production and poverty impact data need to be better documented by the
M&E team and the MIS. According to the 2010 QALP “remaining implementation risks
are related mainly to difficulties in achieving suitable fiduciary standards, particularly in
the more conflict affected areas of the country?.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The NSP has been evolving properly from a social perspective and the FCRP has
contributed to this process. The design of NSP II under which FCRP was implemented,
took into account most of the social issues that appeared in the Afghan recent experience,
particularly with regard to safeguards and participation. The project directly targeted poor
communities and is working through institutional mechanisms that provides more voice to
poor members of the community. The FCRP and NSP II project documentation, however,
says very little on gender, the risk of elite capture and internal community conflict. Since,
NSP is promoting a very new way of decision making process in areas where power
structures are deeply entrenched in traditional institutions, it would have been important to
better analyze these issues. Project documentation says very little about what mechanisms
would allow for giving greater voice to women. However, a recent independent
evaluation shows that the project is having a very positive impact on women.
Overall, project design ensures more transparency, more voice and a better repatriation of
benefits than in traditional projects, mostly because the CDCs are more representative than
local Shuras and other traditional mechanisms of decision-making. Very little is also said
about intra-community inequalities and especially issues of multi-ethnic communities and
group-based inequalities. In contrast, NSP under which the FCRP was implemented is a
great project from the perspective of partnership i.e., bringing communities, NGOs, the
Government (various Ministries) and many donors together both to implement the
program and to discuss strategic development issues. The safeguards risks have clearly
been identified and this has influenced project design. The ESMF is of good quality and
quite detailed, and the recruitment social focal points into the NSP team was sound.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The FCRP activities were carried out under the NSP II implementation arrangements,
using the same FPs in the respective project districts. The NSP II carried out core
functions, such as policy and strategy development of the program, coordination with
other ministries, external relations with donors, resource mobilization, management of
relations with FPs, appraisal and processing of sub-project proposals, engineering,
monitoring and quality assurance - focusing on achievements, some outcomes and
program impact, and training and capacity development at central and regional levels.
During implementation of the FCRP, NSP II developed a decentralized strategy phasing
out the regional offices, significantly reducing the staff in Kabul and increasing the staff in
the provincial level, and enhancing the quality at entry of sub-project proposals by the
PMUs providing specialized technical feedback to FP engineers. Provincial MRRD
offices oversaw the work of the FPs in the field, approving sub-project proposals,

                                                9
providing technical support to communities and FPs, and carrying out monthly monitoring
field visits. Decentralization has enhanced support provided to FPs by the PMU; and sub-
projects are being implemented by local communities, through the CDCs.
The role of the FPs continued to be the provision of support to CDCs in implementing the
sub-projects specifically through the following activities: (i) establishing inclusive CDCs
through free and fair elections; (ii) assisting communities in identifying and prioritizing
local development needs; (iii) assisting in the preparation of sub-project proposals for
appraisal by MRRD; (iv) monitoring the implementation of sub-project proposals and
providing any required technical assistance; and (v) building capacity of community
members in project planning, financial record keeping, and O&M of the supported
community assets.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Due to the short implementation period, no other outcome has been detected so far.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
An impact evaluation of the NSP II is being done through a multi-year randomized control
trial designed to assess the effects of the program across a broad range of economic,
political, and social indicators. The evaluation is structured into multiple stages in
reflection of the multi-faceted nature of NSP. The executive summary of the first stage of
the evaluation, presented in Annex 6, is focused on estimating how the creation of CDCs
and the selection of development sub-projects affect political and social outcomes. Data
was drawn from surveys administered to over 15,000 individuals in 500 sample villages
immediately before the introduction of NSP (baseline survey in summer 2007), and again
two years later (first follow-up survey in summer-autumn 2009). Second and third follow-
up surveys, planned for spring 2011 and 2013–15 respectively, will provide data for the
second stage of the evaluation, which will ascertain impacts once NSP-funded sub-
projects are operational and provide an assessment of the medium-run impacts of the
program.
Estimates obtained at this stage represent impacts following CDC elections and the
selection and implementation of sub-projects, but prior to their completion. This first stage
of the evaluation focuses on assessing the impact of the program on village governance
and political attitudes and social cohesion, with weaker effects expected on access to
services and economic activity. Effects over the latter two sets of indicators will be
assessed in the second stage, which will be conducted following the completion of sub-
projects funded by NSP in the treatment villages. Major findings from the first follow up
survey include:
     NSP induces changes in village governance by creating functional village councils
      and transferring some authority from tribal elders to these councils. The program
      also improves villagers’ perceptions of a wide range of government figures; NSP
      results in improvements in villagers’ access to services and perceptions of well-
      being; and
     NSP increases the engagement of women across a number of dimensions of
      community life, while also increasing respect for senior women in the village and

                                              10
      making men more open to female participation in local governance. NSP also
      increases the availability of support groups for women and reduces extreme
      unhappiness among women.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant
Risks that achievements could not be maintained are significant, mainly due to the on-
going worsening of the security situation. Other risks are manageable: the use of a CDD
approach that relied heavily on the resilience and capacity of local communities is itself
the best mitigation strategy under NSP, given the weak central government and nature of
country risks. Other appropriate mitigation measures included: (i) the use of management
consultants and FPs, (ii) the phased approach to slowly shifting implementation
responsibilities from consultants and NGOs to MRRD and other agencies, and (iii) the
expansion of the role of CDCs as entry point for government and donor assistance.
Although implementation hinged on the role of the CDCs, which are still not extensively
used by other line ministries, the FCRP contributed to validate the approach based on the
initially informal and quite successful functioning of the CDCs as the central
implementing mechanism. Given that NSP II implementation was well advanced towards
meeting PDOs, the QALP panel assessed the overall risk rating for this project as
substantial. The deteriorating security could undermine sustainability of achievements and
the future of the NSP program more generally. However, the GoA and the Bank task
teams are taking appropriate steps to address these issues, while recognizing that the
overall security situation is beyond their control. The implementation of HRAS is proving
to be increasingly important because of the deteriorating conflict setting.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
As food prices increased the Bank responded immediately providing policy advice to GoA
suggesting both short and long term measures. Short-term measures included: (i)
identifying the most vulnerable areas and groups; (ii) scaling up of the existing safety net
programs (e.g., food for work program); and (iii) enhancing the involvement of the private
sector in wheat trade; and (iv) refraining from investing in strategic grain reserve, price
subsidies for all consumers (especially at the expense of producers), and from policing and
threatening traders. Longer term measures included: (a) expanding a targeted safety net
(e.g., targeted cash/conditional cash transfers); (ii) improving domestic trade through
infrastructure investment; and (iii) stimulating domestic supply of food, in particular
through investments to increase productivity. Considering the emergency food security
conditions and the repeater nature of the project interventions with what was being done
under the NSP II, the FCRP was designed for the immediate acceleration of sub-projects
that were on the waiting list of needed community demands for increasing food production.
The preparation team was experienced and constructive; the team skill mix was adequate,
                                               11
benefitting greatly from the local knowledge of local experience and from the cross-
country CDD-conflict experience. Bank country and sector management provided strong
support to expedite processing in a very short period of time.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
The FCRP project within the NSP II benefitted from continuous implementation support
from experienced Bank staff who had worked in other fragile states and conflict areas.
The Kabul-based task team comprised a good mixture of international and local staff, with
backstopping of Headquarters (HQ) staff and consultants to ensure fresh perspective and
specific expertise, as needed. Supervision entitled fielding of comprehensive multi-
disciplinary teams, including expertise on financial management, procurement,
engineering, monitoring, and safeguards, which ensured adequate attention to tracking of
safeguards compliance and provided some recommendations for the improvement of
environmental performance on a regular basis. The key issues reflected in most Aide
Memoires are related to staffing and delivery of training, although little factual
information is provided about the status of environmental compliance of works on project
sites (perhaps due to the difficulties in carrying field supervision in many sub-project
locations as a result of the deteriorating security situation). The task team has been pro-
active and has endeavored to respond to the various issues in a timely and constructive
manner. The team was also very effective in following up on the comprehensive NSP II
mid-term evaluation, including continued follow-up to the agreed Strategic Action Plan.
FM supervision mission reports were comprehensive and intensive in their coverage of all
the key FM aspects. The primary focus had been the reliability of the NSP unit in meeting
the fiduciary requirements under the project, particularly at the decentralized CDC level.
Regular reviews of project records, quarterly IFRs, and the Auditor General’s annual
reports and management letters, have extensively discussed with the Borrower on the
identified internal control weaknesses and helped in resolving the issues rose through
time-bound action plans. The task team had assisted the project in strengthening the
latter's internal control with an additional internal audit unit established within NSP. Some
Bank advice, especially involving how to handle FM issues in conflict situations, still
needs to be enhanced and worked out in a manner that finds the right balance between
needed flexibility and meeting reasonable fiduciary requirements in an environment in
which there is a high degree of perceived corruption. Procurement oversight has been
satisfactory.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Overall Bank performance under the FCRP cycle including preparation and supervision
reporting was satisfactory. The Bank's focus has been on consolidating and strengthening
the CDCs (including developing consensus around the preparation process, content, and
implementation of CDPs and ensuring adequate O&M arrangements and gender
participation), and strengthening the social capital developed under the project.



                                              12
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Government commitment and ownership has been basically strong during the overall
implementation period. From the outset of the NSP program there was unusually strong
and effective government vision and leadership in the design and implementation of the
different phases. I n this context, the MOF was keen for the Bank to play a role in
responding to the food price crisis and using FPCR resources to respond to the medium
term impact through irrigation rehabilitation. FCRP could then be prepared in less than
one month with full involvement of the MRRD, MOF and the GoA; and 99 percent of the
grant could be disbursed in the short planned 2 year implementation period in spite of the
conflict setting. During implementation however, as the food crisis in Afghanistan had
eased, thereby reducing the urgency and with it the enthusiasm of the MoF.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
MRRD has consistently demonstrated commitment to and ownership of the FCRP as of
the NSP. MRRD supported the project both during preparation in developing criteria and
selecting affected areas and during implementation by closely monitoring progress and
preparing bi-weekly reports for the task team. The Technical Support Department (TSD)
made good progress in strengthening its capacity. The Technical Manual provided FPs
considerable guidance in developing sub project proposals, which were then approved by
NSP prior to disbursement of BG to CDCs. The TSD was strengthened by enhancing the
focus on the regional and provincial levels and decentralizing most of the technical
reviews, improving the supervision capacity of the provincial and regional offices with
more engineering staff. The M&E/MIS have been clearly improved. However, given the
amount of funds managed by NSP (over US$1 billion disbursed to date) NSP/MRRD had
difficulty in reporting separately on the FCRP grant.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Both the GoA and MRRD had been strongly committed with the NSP and the FRCP,
being proactive in improving its capacity in areas critical to project implementation.

6. Lessons Learned
The key lessons-learned from the implementation of the FCRP through the NSP II
include the following:
       The NSP experience illustrates the vital importance of strong and sustained
      commitment and vision on the part of key high level Government officials.
       NSP also illustrates how a national program reaching rural populations in
      remote parts of the country can help enhance the legitimacy of the government, as
      findings of the first follow up survey highlight this lesson.


                                             13
        In a country like Afghanistan with scattered communities and harsh terrain, a
       robust three tier structure for implementation is needed. NSP had a headquarters in
       Kabul under the MRRD providing oversight to the program and ownership by GoA;
       the NGO- FPs at the local level mobilizing communities, facilitating elections, and
       monitoring the program at the district/community levels; and the communities
       themselves selecting their council members by universal, secret ballot, prioritizing
       projects and implementing the subprojects with assistance from the FPs.
        In a large program, it is essential to build in multiple layers of monitoring and
       supervision, building on the strengths of each part of the three tier structure. For
       example, the NSP headquarters located at MRRD carries out its own
       implementation and post implementation monitoring. NSP’s Provincial Offices
       monitor the quality of facilitation provided by the FPs. The communities
       themselves monitor the work of their elected CDCs through community
       participatory monitoring processes, which allow them to bring improvements during
       implementation. Finally, the Bank itself established a strong supervision team in
       Kabul, which provides intensive day-to-day support along with formal supervision.
       Donors and other stakeholders are routinely involved in this process, thus ensuring
       buy-in and coordination in an extremely crowded donor field.
        Decentralized task teams are essential especially in post-conflict/fragile state
       situations where continuous and intensive implementation assistance/supervision is
       needed. It facilitates greater support to communities, expedites sub-project
       preparation to completion cycle and strengthens project results monitoring on the
       ground.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies


(b) Cofinanciers


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                             14
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

   (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                          Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                            Percentage of
         Components                                       Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                                Appraisal
                                                             millions)
Block Grants for Communities              7,00                 6,98                  100
Community Facilitation and
                                          0.60                 0,52                   86
Capacity Development
Implementation and Management
                                          0,40                 0,42                  105
Support

            Total Baseline Cost           8,00                 7,92                   99
Physical Contingencies                      0                    0                     0
Price Contingencies                         0                    0                    0
             Total Project Costs          8.00                 7.92                   99
Front-end fee PPF                           0                    0                    0
Front-end fee IBRD                          0                    0                    0
      Total Financing Required            8.00                 7.92                   99




(b) Financing
                                                        Appraisal
                                                                       Actual/Latest Percentage
                                       Type of Co-      Estimate
          Source of Funds                                                Estimate        of
                                        financing        (USD
                                                                      (USD millions) Appraisal
                                                        millions)
Borrower                                                  0.00            0.00             0
GFRP Special Financing                    Grant           8.00            7.92             99




                                                  15
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


                 Distribution of Subprojects per Province and Districts

                                                                                   # of
                                     Subprojects     Subproject    Disbursed                 Benefitted
    Province              District                                              Benefitted
                                     per District   Budget USD       USD                     Population
                                                                                 Family
I. IRRIGATION SCHEMES
BADGHIS         Jawand                    4                  -         27,956      434         1,509
BADGHIS         Muqur                     1                9,256        9,256      196           804
BADGHIS         Qadis                    22              264,533      216,769     2,095         8,025
BADGHIS         Qala-I- Naw              10               97,856       82,730     1,060        4,951
BAGHLAN         Andarab                   1                5,575        5,575      210           833
BAGHLAN         Baghlani Jadid            3               69,339       40,088      426          2,178
BAGHLAN         Dushi                     1              123,536      117,494     1,320         6,116
BAGHLAN         Khost Wa Firing          19              233,887      156,432     2,633        12,218
BAGHLAN         Nahrin                    1                6,086           64      497         2,485
BAGHLAN         Tala Wa Barfak            3               86,961       51,356      434          2,570
BALKH           Balkh                     1               12,236       11,012      719          3,497
BALKH           Chahar Bolak              1               14,658       14,658      270          1,890
BALKH           Chahar Kint               2               35,105       35,105      386          1,741
BALKH           Kaldar                    1                4,235        7,421      309         1,283
BALKH           Khulm                     2               11,479       10,061      175           903
BALKH           Sholgara                  6               60,000       58,202     1,234        6,570
BALKH           Zari                      3               42,123       39,879      729          3,315
BAMYAN          Panjab                    1               12,412       12,412      187           753
BAMYAN          Shibar                    1                4,518        4,518      161           582
BAMYAN          Waras                    6                53,147       48,847      390          2,188
BAMYAN          Yakawlang                 1               11,209       11,209      186           831
DAYKUNDI        Kajran                   25              911,780      820,602     5,537        27,488
DAYKUNDI        Miramor                  4                38,259       37,602      543          2,052
DAYKUNDI        Nili                      1                3,798        3,798      109           555
DAYKUNDI        Sangi Takht              31              203,641      193,388     1,345         6,053
DAYKUNDI        Shahristan               14              161,107      121,524     1,654         7,151
HIRAT           Adraskan                 45              410,691      379,426     3,392        19,646
HIRAT           Chishti Sharif           27              300,184      231,813     2,576        14,588
HIRAT           Farsi                    17              219,884      199,624     2,131         9,163
HIRAT           Ghoryan                   8              279,802      239,706     2,116        13,912
HIRAT           Guzara                    8              274,974      251,122     1,660         7,243
HIRAT           Injil                     9              142,961      136,918     3,790        22,664
HIRAT           Karukh                   30              484,619      412,725     4,029        15,327
HIRAT           Kohsan                    5               37,715       36,900      827         4,255
HIRAT           Kushk                     9               98,132       95,629     1,290        6,548
HIRAT           Kushki Kuhna              8               81,879       71,615      855         4,052
HIRAT           Obe                       9               58,320       57,152      703         3,520
HIRAT           Pashtun Zarghun          13              205,541      154,393     2,295        10,275
HIRAT           Shindand                 18              392,871      337,611     4,045        18,428

                                               16
                                                                                       # of
                                         Subprojects     Subproject    Disbursed                 Benefitted
    Province               District                                                 Benefitted
                                         per District   Budget USD       USD                     Population
                                                                                     Family


KAPISA           Hisa-i-Awali Kohistan       2                 3,225        5,271      204         1,060
KAPISA           Nijrab                      9               124,113       81,864     1,286        6,850
KUNDUZ           Aliabad                      1                5,361        5,361      185         1,027
KUNDUZ           Archi                        4               33,397       32,286     1,040         6,218
KUNDUZ           Imam Sahib                   3               34,672       29,102      733         4,314
KUNDUZ           Kunduz                      3                30,874       30,874      561         2,906
LAGHMAN          Alingar                     17              179,376      129,017     2,852        15,061
LAGHMAN          Alishing                    20              204,872      155,398     3,046        17,969
LAGHMAN          Dawlat Shah                  8              113,868       85,293     1,264        7,324
LAGHMAN          Mihtarlam                    8               62,575       62,565     1,308         7,022
LAGHMAN          Qarghayi                    22              514,637      307,296     4,613        22,593
LOGAR            Azra                        17              331,524      260,538     2,773        19,311
LOGAR            Charkh                      13              378,942      341,465     2,398        16,715
LOGAR            Khushi                      1                 6,214        2,935       68           505
LOGAR            Puli Alam                   3                38,744       35,548      407         2,849
SAMANGAN         Ruyi Du Ab                  3                43,305       43,500          761          4,706
TAKHAR           Bangi                        3               48,427       48,427      871         4,016
TAKHAR           Chal                        1                17,755        1,775       90           540
TAKHAR           Dashti Qala                  1                2,354        2,119       65           352
TAKHAR           Farkhar                     1                 6,150        6,150      352         2,083
TAKHAR           Rustaq                      3                61,184       12,476      444         2,522

II. NON-IRRIGATION SCHEMES
HIRAT           Adraskan                      1                2,989          299
HIRAT           Farsi                         1                1,920          192      200          804
HIRAT           Chishti Sharif                1                8,116          812      87           487
HIRAT           Farsi                         1                6,970          697
HIRAT           Adraskan                      1               13,174        1,494       97          582
HIRAT           Kohsan                        1               55,471        5,547      345         1,733
BAMYAN          Bamyan                        1                5,920          592       58          354
HIRAT           Adraskan                      1               34,739        3,474      300         1,800
HIRAT           Injil                         1               45,889       13,767      303         1,646
HIRAT           Zinda Jan                     1                5,812        5,221      152         1,020
BAMYAN          Panjab                        1               12,228        9,096      281         1,147
DAYKUNDI        Miramor                       1               26,465       23,819
HIRAT           Guzara                        1               10,070        1,007      300         1,496
HIRAT           Shindand                      1               12,746       11,472      198          800
BAGHLAN         Baghlani Jadid                1                8,791        7,912      120          646
BAMYAN          Panjab                        1                2,590        2,590      195          889
HIRAT           Adraskan                      1               11,837        1,184
HIRAT           Chishti Sharif                1                2,771          257
HIRAT           Chishti Sharif                1                3,761          376      60           360
HIRAT           Farsi                         1               10,453        1,045
HIRAT           Farsi                         1               10,453        1,045
HIRAT           Farsi                         1               11,435        1,241       74          312
HIRAT           Guzara                        1               31,955        3,196      160         1,256
HIRAT           Guzara                        1               32,226        3,223
LAGHMAN         Alingar                       1                5,523        5,523      180          857
LAGHMAN         Qarghayi                      1                8,302        7,472      300         1,696
LOGAR           Charkh                        1               13,431       13,431      256         1,792



                                                    17
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis4


Introduction: Due to the security situation in Afghanistan during the preparation of this ICR, it
was not possible to visit communities that benefited from the FCRP support to assess the impact
of the investments. The economic analysis conducted in 2008 to evaluate the results of NSP II’s
randomly selected sub-project investments and their impacts on communities – including 29
irrigation schemes - constitutes a good proxy indicator of the FCRP results. In this annex, only
the results for the irrigation sub-projects of the 2008 analysis are presented. Specific objectives
of the overall analysis were to: (i) do an ex-post economic analysis of sub-projects in major
sectors; and (ii) estimate employment opportunities generated by the schemes.
Sampling: Irrigation, power, transport and water supply are the four major sectors considered for
the study, which accounted for 4,655 sub-projects that were completed more than one year back.
Out of 4,655 sub-projects, only 1,953 sub-projects were identified as secure sites for the purpose
of undertaking field visits. A random sample of 200 sub-projects was selected in proportion to
their distribution by four major sectors and by five regions.
Analysis: The incremental costs and benefits were quantified for each sub-project and the results
aggregated by sector and by region for estimating the rate of return to sub-project investments.
Discounting was done at 12% opportunity cost of capital with 10 years as the average project
life. Annual recurrent maintenance cost of the rehabilitated infrastructure was kept at 5%. A
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.8 was used to convert financial costs to economic costs;
and financial prices of internationally non-tradable inputs and commodities to economic prices.
Employment and poverty alleviation impacts of the sub-project interventions were assessed.
Sample Characteristics: The sample of irrigation sub-projects consisted of 29 sub-projects in
which its infrastructure was rehabilitated at a total cost of Afn27.3 million, benefiting 4,704 rural
families spread over 58 villages. Interventions were need-based as assessed by the communities,
and included rehabilitation of irrigation intakes, irrigation protection walls, irrigation canals,
drainage channels, aqua ducts and dam diversions. Average time taken to complete the irrigation
project was 10 months. With project, improved water storage, better water distribution, reduced
flood damages, reduced water logging and reduced water losses were the benefits reported by the
beneficiary communities. Major sources of quantifiable benefits were increase in irrigated area,
improvements in productivity, and additional employment created.
Irrigated Area Expansion: The sampled irrigation sub-projects commanded 16,166 jerib of land
area before the project, which marginally increased by about 1% after the project. Not all the
command land area was irrigated. The sampled sub-projects irrigated 9,251 jerib before the
project, about 57% of the land area. After the project, actual irrigated area increased by 2,891
jerib due to the rehabilitated irrigation infrastructure in all sample projects. The 31% increase
in irrigated area was significant: about 100 jerib was the additionally irrigated area in each
rehabilitated scheme, besides providing improved coverage to the existing irrigated area.
Wheat was the major crop followed by corn, barley, cotton, brinjal, tomato, potato, fodder, onion,
grapes and clover. Wheat occupied 65% of the irrigated land before project and corn occupied


   4
       Ex Post Economic Analysis of National Solidarity Program (NSP). Page 5 to 12. S. Selvarajan. September 2008
                                                               18
13% of the irrigated land. With improved irrigation infrastructure, wheat was cultivated in 7,245
jerib, 20% more than the wheat cropped area before the project. Limited data available for other
minor crops restricted the detailed analysis only to irrigated wheat, which dominated the irrigated
cropping pattern in sample villages.
Wheat Productivity Impacts: Following improved water distribution, wheat yield has improved
by 40%. Even though the base yield is low (48 seer/jerib), average yield improvement by 19 seer
per jerib in the rehabilitated irrigation project area was significant. This impact was achieved
within the means available with the community by adding more irrigated area under wheat and
improving water distribution in the existing irrigated area as well. Except north eastern region,
yield improvement is reported in all the remaining regions. The improved productivity was still
low as compared to its potential, but could be substantially enhanced if complementary
investments for better access to credit, technology and market followed the irrigation
infrastructure improvements made in the NSP communities.
Wheat gross income: Average gross income from wheat land has gone up from Afn 6,036 to Afn
8,251 per jerib, an increase of 37% at constant 2008 prices. It was estimated that variable
production cost of wheat account for about 50% of the gross income per jerib of wheat land.
Since the estimated gross margin captured only the grain yield, only one-third of gross income
was discounted to account for variable production costs. Based on this assumption, incremental
gross margin due to the rehabilitated irrigation infrastructure was estimated at Afn 1,500 per
jerib of wheat. Gross income from irrigated wheat alone at constant 2008 prices increased from
Afn36.4 million to Afn59.8 million. The incremental gross income of Afn23.3 million,
representing 64% increase over ‘before project’ income level, came from irrigated area
expansion and productivity impacts. Irrigated area expansion in wheat accounted for 32% of the
incremental gross income, productivity improvement accounted for 55% of the incremental gross
income and the rest (13%) was accounted by interaction effect.
Agriculture Gross Margin: When only irrigated wheat was considered, incremental annual gross
margin was assessed at Afn15.6 million, which went up to Afn29.7 million by projecting the
gross margin for entire irrigated area by using wheat as proxy to capture other crops. The
incremental gross margin came down to Afn24.5 million, when all cropped area was considered
due to the shifting of rain fed wheat area to irrigated wheat following the rehabilitation. On an
average, one sub-project generated Afn0.8 million as annual incremental gross margin, with
improved infrastructure, which was 48% more than before rehabilitation. Incremental gross
margin per family due to the project was Afn 5,200 per annum. Excluding the landless families,
incremental gross margin per farm family was Afn 6,845 per annum.
Savings in Costs: The savings in community expenditure in the O&M of the irrigation system
infrastructure due to rehabilitation was estimated at Afn0.3 million per annum, due to savings in
labor days for cleaning of canals, embankment repairs and O&M personnel. For all the sample
irrigation sub-projects, labor days used for maintenance have come down by about 63%, being
maximum savings due to the embankment repairs.
Returns to Investment: Project costs and benefits were analyzed for each sub-project investment
and aggregated by region. The ERR varied from 20% (North western region) to 31% (central
region). The overall ERR to investments for infrastructure rehabilitation in all 29 sample
irrigation projects was 24%. Over a project life of 10 years, at 12% discount rate, the sampled
investments in irrigation sector has generated a net present value (NPV) of Afn13.2 million.
                                                  19
Individual project ERRs varied from 6% to 56% across regions, with a median value of 27%.
Three sub-projects yielded less than 10% ERR and four sub-projects yielded above 40% ERR.
Risk Analysis: Returns to investment in irrigation projects depend on the irrigated area expansion
and the improved productivity of major irrigated crops. The incremental gross margin also
depends on the input and output prices realized by the farmers. To capture this impact on the
ERR, 25% fall in incremental benefits as observed in the sample sub-projects was considered for
simulating their impact on ERR. In case of project costs, time over run is often observed in the
implementation of sub-projects. An increase of 25% in project costs was considered for
simulating their impact on ERR. This captured a delay in the project implementation by two
years at current average annual inflation rate. By varying the incremental benefits and costs by
25% as mentioned above, 1,000 simulation runs were made to evaluate the cumulative
distribution of ERR and NPV. Probability of ERR falling below the opportunity cost of capital
(12%) was very low, at 1% for the irrigation sub-sector. ERR varied from 9.9% to 21.1% for the
simulated random combinations of fall in incremental benefits up to 25% and rise in incremental
costs up to 25%, with an expected mean value of 15.9% and coefficient variation of 10.7%.
Employment and Poverty Impacts: The sample irrigation sub-projects generated 39,368 labor
days during the implementation of the project. The project utilized available unskilled labor
within the community, while executing the irrigation rehabilitation works. About 84% of the
generated labor days were unskilled labor and the remaining 16% skilled, drawn both from the
community, as well as from within the district. Weighted wage rate was Afn258 per day.
Average cost of the irrigation sub-project was Afn0.9 million. Each of the irrigation sub-project
required on average 1,358 labor days for implementation.
The irrigation project generated employment impacts through the improved irrigated agriculture.
Irrigated area increased by 2,891 jerib after rehabilitating the infrastructure in the 29 sampled
schemes. Irrigated wheat area increased by 1,208 jerib in the sample and average irrigated wheat
yield increased by 19 seer per jerib. Average labor days per jerib needed for wheat cultivation is
5 man days for rain fed wheat, 12 man days for irrigated wheat before project and 15 man days
after the project. This correspond to an average yield of 23 seer, 48 seer and 67 seer per jerib
respectively of rain fed wheat, irrigated wheat before project and irrigated wheat after project.
Since wheat was the major irrigated crop occupying about 2/3rd of the irrigated area it was used
as a proxy to capture the employment impacts in agriculture. The labor requirements of other
irrigated crops are higher in case of vegetables, cash and other high value crops and hence, the
estimated impact is actually under estimated. For rain fed crops (43%) and irrigated crops (57%)
in 16,166 jerib of land, labor requirement before project was estimated at 145,587 labor
days/year. With improved infrastructure, cultivation of rain fed crops (26%) and irrigated crops
(74%) in the same 16,166 jerib used 203,325 labor days per year, about 57,738 labor days per
year in the 29 sub-sampled projects. At the average daily wage rate of Afn258, incremental
employment generated is equivalent to lifting 2,054 people above poverty line. This reduction of
poverty by about 7% through NSP II led 29 irrigation sub-project interventions covering 4,704
families with a total population of 30,333 spread over 58 villages. Each of the rehabilitated
irrigation sub-project generates additional 1,991 labor days of employment due to improved
irrigated agriculture, which is equivalent to lifting 70 rural poor above poverty line.



                                                 20
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


   (a) Task Team members
                                                                           Responsibility/
           Names                           Title                 Unit
                                                                             Specialty
Lending
Qazi Azmat Isa             Sr. Rural Development Specialist      SASDA   TTL
Zisham Karim               Rural Development Specialist          SASDA   Co-TTL
Kenneth Okpara             Sr. Financial Management Specialist   SARFM   FM
Deepal Fernando            Sr. Procurement Specialist            SARPM   PM
Asta Oleson                Sr. Social Development Specialist     SASSD   Social
Asha Narayan               Financial Management Specialist       SARFM   FM

Supervision/ICR
Ladisy Komba Chengula      Sr. Agriculture Economist             SASDA
Zabiullah Ahrary           Program Assistant                     SASDO
Colin Deschamps            Consultant                            SASDA
Abdul Mohammad Durani      E T Consultant                        SASDI
Deepal Fernando            Senior Procurement Specialist         ECSO2
Zishan Faiza Karim         Rural Development Specialist          SASDA
Sheila Braka Musiime       Senior Counsel                        LEGOP
Asha Narayan               Financial Management Specialis        SARFM
Kenneth O. Okpara          Sr Financial Management Specialist    SARFM
Mohammad Arif Rasuli       Sr Environmental Spec.                SASDI
Mio Takada                 Rural Development Specialist          SASDA

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                           Total:                                           0.00
Supervision/ICR
                           Total:                                           0.00




                                               21
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results (Summer-Autumn 2009)


Estimates of Interim Program Impact from First Follow-Up Survey5
Executive Summary
Introduction
The NSP is the largest development program in Afghanistan and a flagship program of the Afghan
government. Since its inauguration in 2003, NSP has established 22,500 CDCs across 361 districts
in all of Afghanistan’s 34 provinces and has financed over 50,000 development projects. NSP is
structured around two major village-level interventions: (1) the creation of a gender-balanced CDC
through a secret-ballot, universal suffrage election; and (2) the disbursement of grants, up to a
village maximum of US$60,000, to support the implementation of projects selected, designed, and
managed by the CDC in consultation with the village community 6 . NSP thus, seeks to both
improve the access of rural villagers to critical services and to create a structure for village
governance centered on democratic processes and the participation of women.
The impact evaluation of the NSP is a multiyear randomized control trial designed to assess the
effects of the program across a broad range of economic, political, and social indicators. While a
number of qualitative studies of NSP have been conducted to-date, the evaluation is the first large-
sample quantitative assessment capable of providing rigorous, statistically unbiased estimates of the
economic, institutional, and social impacts of the program. The evaluation is structured into
multiple stages in reflection of the multifaceted nature of NSP. The first stage of the evaluation,
described in this report, is focused on estimating how the creation of CDCs and the selection of
development projects affect political and social outcomes. Data for the first phase is drawn from
surveys administered to over 15,000 individuals in 500 sample villages immediately before the
introduction of NSP (baseline survey in summer 2007) and again two years later (first follow-up
survey in summer-autumn 2009). The evaluation focuses only on villages mobilized by the second
phase of NSP, which commenced in 2007.
The estimates presented below describe impacts of the program at a time when CDCs were
operational, but prior to the completion of many projects funded by NSP. Accordingly, the
estimates represent the intermediate impacts of the program and do not necessarily reflect those that
will be observed once projects are completed. Second and third follow-up surveys, planned for
spring 2011 and 2013–15 respectively, will provide data for the second stage of the evaluation,
which will ascertain impacts once NSP-funded projects are operational and provide an assessment
of the medium-run impacts of the program.
Methodology
The evaluation employs the methodology common to randomized controlled trials and seeks to
compare outcomes of interest in 250 villages mobilized by NSP with 250 villages not yet
participating in the program. These 500 villages span 10 districts in Balkh, Baghlan, Daykundi,
Ghor, Herat, and Nangarhar provinces. In each of the 10 districts, 25 of the 50 villages included in
the evaluation were selected at random to receive NSP, with the other 25 villages assigned to the



    5
      Andrew Beath, Fortini Christia, Ruben Enikolopov, Shahim Ahmad Kabuli
    6
      Projects usually seek to construct or improve critical infrastructure, such as communal drinking water facilities,
    irrigation canals, local roads and bridges, and electrical generators, or offer vocational training or literacy courses to
    villagers

                                                                22
control group. The randomization of NSP within the 500 sample villages facilitates a transparent
and unbiased estimation of program impacts by ensuring that pre-NSP characteristics of NSP
villages are, on average, identical to those in the non-NSP control villages. Any differences in
outcomes that arise between the two groups of villages are thus attributable to NSP and describe the
impacts of the program.
Summary of Findings
The study examines the impact of NSP on village governance; political attitudes and social
cohesion; access to infrastructure, services, and utilities; and economic activity. Projects funded by
NSP ordinarily take 18–24 months to complete following the initial stages of mobilization, which
requires approximately 6 months. Estimates obtained at this stage in the study represent impacts of
the program following CDC elections and the selection and implementation of projects, but prior to
the completion of many projects. Accordingly, the first stage of the evaluation focuses on assessing
the impact of the program on village governance and political attitudes and social cohesion, with
weaker effects expected on access to services and economic activity. Effects over the latter two sets
of indicators will be assessed in the second stage of the evaluation, which will be conducted
following the completion of projects funded by NSP in the treatment villages.
The first stage of the evaluation finds that, at the current stage of program implementation, NSP is
increasing villagers’ access to services, altering the structure of village governance, and changing
political and social attitudes. Major findings include:
        NSP induces changes in village governance by creating functional village councils and
transferring some authority from tribal elders to these councils. The program also improves
villagers’ perceptions of a wide range of government figures, but does not change the chance of a
village suffering a violent attack or result in appreciable changes in levels of interpersonal trust
among villagers.
       NSP results in improvements in villagers’ access to services and perceptions of well-being.
At the current stage of project implementation, there is no evidence to indicate that the program
affects objective measures of economic welfare, such as levels of household income or
consumption.
       NSP increases the engagement of women across a number of dimensions of community
life, while also increasing respect for senior women in the village and making men more open to
female participation in local governance. NSP also increases the availability of support groups for
women and reduces extreme unhappiness among women.
The sections below describe, in more detail, the impacts of NSP, with Table 1summarizing
evidence on each of the categories of outcome indicators examined by the study.
Village Governance
NSP alters the structure of village governance by increasing the number of villages with functioning
village councils and induces a marginal transfer of authority over functions of local governance
from tribal elders to these councils. However, the program does not appear to affect activities
undertaken by, or the authority held, by customary village leaders, such as headmen or members of
the clergy. The democratic councils instituted by NSP appear to coexist with, rather than displace,
traditional institutions. NSP stimulates participation in local governance by increasing both the
frequency of and attendance at meetings of the village assembly, but does not affect male villagers’
perceptions of the quality of local governance or the performance of the village leadership.
NSP significantly increases the participation of women in local governance and the responsiveness
of village institutions to women’s needs. The most direct effect is to establish clear avenues, which

                                                   23
had not existed previously, through which women may participate in local governance. In addition,
NSP increases the extent to which women are cognizant of the village leadership and local
governance services and appreciably increases attendance by women of meetings of a village
assembly. The program also induces a substantial increase in the provision of services for women
by village authorities and, perhaps as a result, makes women more likely to hold a positive image of
local leaders and to believe that such leaders are responsive to the needs of women.
Political Attitudes and Social Cohesion
NSP results in an improvement in male villagers’ perceptions of government and non-government
officials and increases connections between villages and government and non-government
institutions, but does not seem to make villagers more accepting of government taxation or
government jurisdiction over local crimes, or more knowledgeable about local parliamentary
representatives. However, the program does increase acceptance of elections as a means to select
village headmen and of involving women in the process.
Male, but not female, villagers are more supportive of female involvement in local governance
because of NSP, although it has no effect on stated opinions of villagers on female employment,
education, or medical treatment. The program produces a sharp increase in the ability of male and
female villagers to identify well-respected women in the village and improves access to support
groups for village women. It also increases inter-village connections among women, although it
does not affect the pattern of intra-village socialization.
There is weak or no evidence that NSP affects levels of trust between villagers7 the prevalence of
village disputes or tribal feuds, or the probability of a village suffering an attack, but the program
appears to stem out-migration of households from villages. Finally, while there is no evidence that
NSP makes male villagers happier overall, the program does appear to reduce the prevalence of
unhappiness among village women.
Access to Utilities, Infrastructure, and Services
The impact of NSP on services, infrastructure, and utilities at this stage of program implementation
is mixed, although the conclusiveness of current analysis is limited by the incomplete nature of
many sub-projects in the sample. A more comprehensive analysis of the impact of NSP on access
to services and economic activity is to be undertaken by the second stage of the evaluation.
Using data from villages with completed sub-projects, the study identifies a strong positive impact
of drinking water sub-projects on the use of protected outlets and the availability of safe drinking
water. Evidence available on the few completed electricity sub-projects also suggests strong
impacts of such investments on connectivity and usage.
Few impacts of infrastructure sub-projects are apparent on the mobility of villagers or irrigation
outcomes, although this could be due to the limited amount of time that has elapsed between the
completion of sub-projects and the first follow-up survey. Data from the second follow-up survey
will be required to conclusively assess the impact of these investments.




    7
     Trust is measured by asking respondents whether they would be comfortable allowing another villager to collect
    money for them, if they were unable to collect it personally; whether they have, in the past, asked another villager to
    collect money; and whether they believe villagers generally help each other.




                                                             24
With respect to access to medical care and schooling, the program’s impacts, at this stage, appear
limited to female villagers. Women’s access to professional medical services appears modestly
improved by NSP, but there is no evidence of an improvement for villagers generally. Some
evidence exists that NSP increases girls’ school attendance rates, but there is no evidence that NSP
increases boys’ school attendance.
Economic Activity
As with access to utilities, infrastructure, and services, the capacity of the first stage of the study to
identify the economic impacts of NSP is limited by the incomplete state of sub-projects in the
sample and will be addressed more conclusively by the second and third stages of the evaluation.
At the current stage of program implementation, the study finds that NSP is already increasing the
proportion of villagers who report that their economic situation has improved and makes villagers
more optimistic about future economic changes. Objective measures of economic activity over the
past year appear to be, as yet, unaffected by NSP. Specifically, no difference between treatment
and control villages is observed in annual income or consumption or the regularity of income over
the past year, in the sufficiency of food sources, stocks of household assets, or on borrowing
behavior.
The program, in its current state of implementation, does not affect the size of land area under
cultivation or harvest sizes. Although there is weak evidence that NSP increases the probability of
farmers selling produce, there is no evidence of a similar impact on sales of livestock, animal
products, or handicrafts. Revenues accruing from sales of produce, livestock, or animal products
are unaffected by the program at this stage, although NSP appears to induce a slight increase in
revenues from handicraft sales.
NSP results in increased involvement by women in income-generating activities, but there is no
evidence of impacts on asset ownership by women, on the control of women over earned income or
owned assets, or on the involvement of women in household decisions.
Conclusion
Results from the first stage of the NSP impact evaluation indicate that the program is successful in
improving villagers’ perceptions of their economic situation and of government representatives and
officials and some non-governmental actors. NSP creates new village institutions for women,
increases men’s openness to women participating in local governance, and improves the perceived
responsiveness of local leaders to women’s needs. There is evidence that, in villages with
completed projects, NSP produces tangible improvements in access to drinking water and
electricity. However, at this stage of program implementation, the program does not appear to have
any impact on the access of villagers to infrastructure or result in any changes in economic activity,
levels of community trust, or the likelihood of a village suffering a dispute or an attack.




                                                     25
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
  No stakeholder workshop was conducted.




                                           26
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


  Background of Project
  Afghanistan’s food grain consumption patterns are dominated by wheat accounting
  for about 80% of total cereal demand. The country was suffering from a serious food
  crisis with wheat prices increasing by 160% over the past year (May 07-May 08).
  These price increases are even higher in wheat-deficit regions due to high
  transportation costs making expensive imported wheat cheaper than domestically
  sourced wheat from surplus regions. This food crisis was primarily from three
  developments: (i) large global food price increases which have translated directly into
  food price increases in the country given the dependence on imports to meet a
  significant part of total domestic consumption (normally about 25-30 percent of food
  grain requirements); (ii) increasing restrictions on wheat exports by Pakistan (source
  of 60 percent of Afghanistan’s food imports), including an export ban and crackdown
  on unofficial exports; and (iii) a sub normal wheat harvest reflecting below average
  and late spring rains that have particularly affected rain-fed wheat.
  The food price increases had serious impact on poverty levels in the country.
  Afghanistan has low average per-capita income with food being a very large part of
  the consumption basket. The average Afghan household spends between 70-80% of
  total household expenditure on food. Poverty rates are high, ranging from 33 percent
  to 42 percent. The increase in food prices did not only affect those below the poverty
  line, but also an additional 20% of the population (6 million), who are just above the
  poverty line and are highly vulnerable to shocks.
  The Grant
  To mitigate the impact of food crisis, the Government of Afghanistan (GOA),
  Ministry o f Agriculture, Irrigation and Livestock made an appeal for US$2.5 billion
  in May 2008 for covering emergency, short-term and mid-term programs for
  preventing shortage of food supply and increasing agricultural production in
  Afghanistan.
  In response to food crisis situation the World Bank set up the Food Policy Crisis Price
  Response (FPCPR) Trust Fund under the IDA. The main priorities of the FPCRR
  resources are to reduce the medium term impacts of the food crisis; and irrigation
  rehabilitation was identified as an effective way of achieving this goal. The IDA
  Food Policy Crisis Response (FPCPR) Trust Fund provided US$8.00 million to the
  GoA to finance the FCRP to increase agriculture production, through improvement in
  irrigation water supply.
  The main objective of FCRP was to finance 500 un-funded sub-projects in the
  irrigation sector in the provinces most severely affected by the food crisis. It was
  envisaged that with the implementation of 500 sub-projects in irrigation sector, about
  2,500 families and 526,831 people would benefit directly. Additional availability of
  irrigation water would increase the area under cultivation and also increase the per
  acre yield resulting in the additional availability of wheat to country; reduce the
  import bill; and reduce the poverty level in the projects areas and country at large
                                             27
Project Components and Costs
Component- wise cost of project under the FCRP financing of US$8 million is shown
in the table below. The bulk o f the financing, i.e., US$7 million (87.5percent) went
towards building small-scale irrigation projects in the most vulnerable provinces.
      Block Grant Disbursement: Block Grants to CDCs for 500 irrigation
       projects. Average cost of project US$14,000 (US$7 million)
      Community Facilitation and Capacity Building: Operating Costs and
       incremental operation expenditures(US$0.6 million)
      Implementation and Management Support: Operation costs and
       incremental operation expenditures (US$0.4 million).
Implementation Arrangement
The activities under the proposed financing were similar to those being financed
under the ongoing NSP II and were carried out using the existing implementation
arrangements. The project was executed by the NSP under the MRRD and
implemented through the contracted FPs in the project districts.
The NSP/MRRD carried out core functions, such as policy and strategy development
of NSP, coordination with other ministries, external relations with donors, resource
mobilization, management of relations with FPs, appraisal and processing of sub-
project proposals, engineering, monitoring and quality assurance -- focusing on
achievements, outcomes and program impact, and training and capacity development
at central and regional levels.
Provincial MRRD offices continued to be responsible for overseeing the work of the
FPs. Specifically, the provincial offices were responsible for approving sub-project
proposals, providing technical support to communities and FPs, and carrying out
monthly monitoring field visits.
The primary role of the FPs was to continue the provision of support to CDCs in
implementing the sub-projects. The FPs were contracted by MRRD to facilitate the
NSP and FCRP implementation at the community level. Specifically, the FPs were
contracted to support rural communities in undertaking the following activities:
       a) Establish inclusive CDCs through free and fair elections;
       b) Assist communities in identifying and prioritizing local development
          needs;
       c) Assist in the preparation of sub-project proposals for appraisal by MRRD;
       d) Monitor the implementation of sub-project and provide any required
          technical assistance; and
       e) Build capacity of community members.


Implementation Period
The FCRP was approved on August 5, 2008; became effective on September 11,
2008; and closed on September 30, 2010.


                                         28
   Project Achievements
   The objective of the FCRP was to enhance the wheat and other cereal production by
   increasing availability of irrigation water through small irrigation sub project. The
   FCRP achievements were as follow:
       No. of Provinces where irrigation sub-projects are completed              20
       No. of Districts where irrigation sub-projects are implemented            81
       No. of irrigation scheme sub-projects financed                           474
       No. of communities implemented irrigation sub-projects                   474
       No. of irrigation sub-projects completed                                 420
       No. of on-going irrigation scheme sub-projects                            54
       No. of families benefited                                          102,500
       Total population benefitted                                        526,831


   Type of irrigation sub-projects Implemented
      Dam construction                                Canal Rehabilitation
      Karez Construction                              Well Boring
      Karez Rehabilitation                            Water Divider Construction
      Karez Extension                                 Pipe Scheme Construction
      Karez Cleaning                                  Protection wall construction
      Intake Construction                             Canal Cleaning
      Water Reservoir Construction                    Canal Construction
      Stream Construction                             Draining Construction
      Spring Construction                             Gabion wall construction
      Siphon construction                             Water intake construction



    Project Outcome Indicators

   Intermediate        Baseline           Original Target Revised                 Actual Values
   Outcome             Value              Values               Target             Achieved
   Indicator                              (from approval Values                   at Completion or
                                          documents)                              Target Years
PDO Indicator 1:   At least 500 irrigation sector sub- project are completed
Value                                 500 projects to be                     A total of 474
(quantitative or                      completed                              irrigation sub-projects
Qualitative)                                                                 were financed
Date achieved      11-8-2008          30-9-2010                              20-3-2011
Comments           About 95 % of the target has been achieved
(incl. %
achievement)
                                               29
PDO Indicator 2:   At least 500 operation and maintenance plan prepared and documented’
Value                                To prepare 500                         A total of 420 O&M
(quantitative or                     operation and                          plans prepared for all
Qualitative)                         maintenance plan                       completed irrigation
                                                                            sub-projects
Date achieved      11-8-2008         30-9-2010                              20-3-2011
Comments           Operation and maintenance plans for all completed irrigation schemes sub-
(incl. %           projects were prepared and implemented to a varying success rate.
achievement)
PDO Indicator 3:   At least 500 communities benefiting from irrigation sub-projects
Value                                500 communities                        474 communities are
(quantitative or                     benefits from these                    benefiting from these
Qualitative)                         irrigation projects                    irrigation projects
Date achieved      11-8-2008         30-9-2010                              20-3-2011
Comments           About 95 of target communities have benefited from the irrigation sub-projects.
(incl. %
achievement)
PDO Indicator 4:   At least 15,000 families benefitting from irrigation related sub-projects
Value                                At least 15,000                           About 102,500
(quantitative or                     families to benefits                      families are benefiting
Qualitative)                         from irrigation                           from this irrigation
                                     related sub-project                       sub-projects
Date achieved      11-8-2008         30-9-2010                                 20-3-2011
Comments           Target achieved more than 600%.
(incl. %
achievement)
PDO Indicator 5:   At least 30% increase in areas of irrigated land in the project area.
Value                                  At least 30%                             The sub project will
(quantitative or                       increase in areas of                     irrigate more than
Qualitative)                           irrigated land in the                    7,200 jeribs of land
                                       project area
Date achieved      11-8-2008           30-9-2010                                20-3-2011
Comments           Since land under cultivation before the start of sub-projects is not given, it is not
(incl. %           possible to estimates the percentage of achievement. But, with such huge
achievement)       irrigation infrastructure, the achievement is likely to be higher than 30%

   Project Costs and Financing




                                                30
                                 Appraisal          Actual /Latest   Percentage of
       Components                Estimate             Estimate        Appraisal
                               (US$ million)        (US$ million)
1. Block Grant
Disbursement. .Block
Grants to CDC for 500
                               7,000,000            6,980,849
irrigation projects(Average                                             99.7
irrigation
projectUS$14,000)
2. Community
Facilitation and Capacity
Building
                                600,000              516,222
Operating Costs and                                                       86
incremental operational
expenditure.
3. Implementation and                                                    105
Management.
                                400,000
 Operating Costs and                                 418,488
incremental operational
expenditure.
       Total Baseline Cost      800,000             7,915,559             99
Physical Contingencies                0                    0
Price Contingencies                   0                    0
       Total Project Costs                                 0
Project Preparation Facility
                                      0                    0
(PPF)
Front-end fee (IBRD only)             0                    0
          Total Financing                                                 99
                                800,000             7,915,559
                Required




                                               31
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
  Not Applicable.




                                     32
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


     1. Food Crisis Response Project. Emergency Additional Financing Grant Project
        Paper. July 21, 2008;
     2. Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund. Grant Agreement, September 11,
        2008;
     3. Aide Memoires of the National Solidarity Project 2. July 2008 – May 2011;
     4. Mid Term Review Aide Memoire of the National Solidarity Project 2, July
        2008;
     5. Implementation Status Reports of the National Solidarity Project 2;
     6. M&E Reports, National Solidarity Project, MRRD
     7. MIS data, National Solidarity Project, MRRD
     8. Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP-2);
     9. Implementation Completion and Results Report: Emergency National
        Solidarity Project. October, 24, 2007;
     10. Ex Post Economic Analysis of National Solidarity Program (NSP). S.
         Selvarajan. September 2008;
     11. Estimates of Interim Program Impact from First Follow-Up Survey. Andrew
         Beath, Fortini Christia, Ruben Enikolopov, Shahim Ahmad Kabuli.




                                          33
                       60°E                                                                                       65°E                                                                                                                70°E                                                                               75°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                         U Z B E K I STA N                                                                                 Dushanbe                                                   hob




                                                                                                    Am
                                                                                                     uD
                                                                                                          ar y                                                                                                                                                                                   Murg
                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                                                                                                        TA J I K I STAN
                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                          Chardzhev                                                                                       To                                                               TAJ IK IS TA N
                                                                                                                                                                    To                                                    ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Kulob                                                       To Shazud
                                                                                                                                                                 Dushanbe                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                           ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                          Qurghonteppa
                              AFGHANISTAN                                 TUR KM E N I S TA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Faisabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                               h
                                                                                                                                    ¯
                                                                                                                                    ¯
                                                                                                                               JAWZJAN                                                                    ndz
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Pya
                                                                                                                                                            BALKH                                     ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                  KUNDUZ                                                                          mi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Taloqan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ¯ ¯                                              Pa
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kunduz
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kondoz
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ¯                                                                                             h
                                                                                                                                     Sheberghan
                                                                                                                                             ¯                     Mazar-e
                                                                                                                                                                     ¯
                                                                                                                                                                   Sharıf
                                                                                                                                                                       ¯                                                     TAKHAR                      ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BADAKHSHAN
                                                                                                                                        Saripul                                                                                                                                        u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Tirich Mir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (7690 m)
                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                         Samangan
                                                                                                                                                                               ¯                                   Baghlan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ¯                                                  K
                                                                                                                  Meymaneh
                                                             Mary                                                                                                         ¯
                                                                                                                                                                    SAMANGAN                                         ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                BAGHLAN
                                                                                                      ¯    ¯
                                                                                                    F A R YA B                                                                                                                                               u
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ndu
                                                                                                                                                                                                           z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I R      d                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SH
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ¯o
                                                                                                                                                                                                eQ                                    J                                         Chitral
                            To
                                                                                                                                 SAR IP
                                                                                                                                 SARIP UL                                                   y                                              n
               35°N
                        Mashad
                                                                                                            Mor
                                                                                                                  gh¯                                                             Da
                                                                                                                                                                                   ¯   ry
                                                                                                                                                                                          a-                         Bazarak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        H        PAiN             ¯    ¯¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NURISTAN
                                                                                                                    ab
                                     P
                                                                                      ¯
                                                                                    B A D G H ¯S
                                                                                              I                                                                                                          ¸ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mahmud-e Raqı
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ¯¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ¯ ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KAPISA Nuristan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ¯ ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         35°N
                                          a                                                                                                                               Bamyan
                                                                                                                                                                           ¯ ¯¯                      ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                PARWAN                                        Asadabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ¯ ¯
                                               r o             Qal‘eh-ye Now                                                                                                                        ¯                Charıkar LAGHMAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ¯¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           KUNAR      To
                                                   p a                          e                                                                                                                                     ¯
                                                                        R a n g                                                                               ¯    ¯
                                                        m i s u s                                                                                                                                                                 Mehtarlam           Mardan
                                                                                                                        Chaghcharan
                                                                                                                                 ¯                          B A M YA N                                         KABUL KABUL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¯                        ¯
                                                      Herat
                                                         ¯
                                                                             ır¯d
                                                                          Har¯
                                                                               u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Jalalabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ¯¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PAK IS TAN
                                                                                                                                                                                WA R D A K                         Meydan Shahr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ¯




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INDIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ¯                       Khyber Pass
                                       ¯                                                                                                                                                                           LOGAR                NANGARHAR
                                 H E R AT                                                           GHOR                                                                                                                                                                  To Peshawar
                                                                                                                             DAY KUNDI                                                                                 Pol-e ‘Alam
                                                                                                                                 Nili                                                                                        PAKTIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ghaznı
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ¯              Gardız
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ¯




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     us
                                                                                                                                                        d
                                                                                                                                                     an
                                                                                                                                                                  G H A Z N¯




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ind
               ISLAMIC                                                                                                                          He
                                                                                                                                                   lm                      I                                                       KOWST                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kowst          Kohat 0          50              100     150 Kilometers
               REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                                         Sharan
                                                                    rah
                                                                     ¯
                                                                                                                           ¯
               OF IRAN                                            Fa
                                                                            ¯                                            URUZGAN                                                                                                                                   0                  50             100 Miles
                                                                       FA R A H                                         Tarın Kowt
                                                                                                                           ¯
                                         ut
                                      ¯r
                                     Ha
                                         ¯
                                                          Farah
                                                             ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                  I ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                           P A K T¯K A
                                                                                                                                                    ¯
                                                                                                                                                   ZABUL
                                                                                                                                                    Qalat
                                                                                                                                                       ¯
                                                                              h
                                                                            Kh¯ s
                                                                              a




                                                                                                                                               ak
                                                                                                                                             rn¯
                                                                                                                                           Ta

                          Hamun-e
                           ¯ ¯
                            Saberı
                            ˛¯ ¯
                                                                                      Lashkar Gah
                                                                                               ¯           Arghandab
                                                                                                                    Kandahar
                                                                                                                          ¯

                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AFG H ANISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Zhob

                                                          Dasht-I Margo                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                 Zaranj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                               N ¯M R O Z
                                                 I    ¯                      HILMAND                       ¯
                                                                                                     KANDAHAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RIVERS
                                                  Helm                                                                                                  To
                                                       and                                                                                              Quetta                                                                                                                              MAIN ROADS
               30°N
                                              Gowd-e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RAILROADS
                                               Zereh




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33358R1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 30°N
OCTOBER 2011




                                                                                                                                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                          shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                60°E                                         PA KI S TA N                                65°E
                                                                                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          70°E
