Report No. 805a-LBR
Appraisal of a                                                                  FILE COPY
Third Highway Project
Liberia
August 5, 1975
Western Africa Projects Department
Highways Division
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared tor official use only by the Bank Croup. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility tor the accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
US$1.00  =  Lib$1.00
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures: British/US
British/US                  Metric
1 foot (ft)             =   0.305 meter (m)
1 mile (mi)             =   1.61 kilometers (km)        2
1 square mile (sq mi)  =   2.59 square kilometers (km )
1 ton (long ton)        =   1.016 metric tons (m tons)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB    - African Development Bank
MCIT   - Ministry of Commerce, Industry & Transportation
MNW    - Ministry of Public Works
NPA    - National Port Authority
SAUTI  - Sauti Overseas (consultants, Italy)
UNDP   - United Nations Development Programme
USAID - United States Agency for International Development
vpd    - vehicles per day



- LIBERIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY  ....................  i-iii
1.  INTRODUCTION  ........................................   1
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR                   ...2
A.   Economic Setting ...............................   2
B. The Transport System.                                    3
C.   Transport Planning and Coordination  .4
3.   HIGHWAYS.                    ..........                      5
A.   The Road Network  ...............................      5
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic..            6
C.   The Road Transport Industry.            .    .         7
D.   Administration  .................... .  ........        8
E. Financing.                                                8
F.   Engineering and Construction           . . .           9
G.   Maintenance  ....................................         11
4.   THE PROJECT  .....................................    11
A.   Description  ....................................   11
B.   Cost Estimates  .................................   17
C.  Execution ......................................   19
D.   Financing and Disbursements  ..      ..................  20
5.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION .................................  21
A.   General  ........................................  21
B.   Construction of the Mesurado River Bridge and
Improvement of UN Drive    . ......................  22
C.   Improvement of the Totota-Ganta Road  .... .......  23
D.   Construction of Feeder Roads  .....      ..............  24
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  .....     ..........  24
This report has been prepared by Messrs. P. Gyamfi (Economist/Engineer) and
E. Fellinghauer (Engineer), and Ms. A. Galenson (Economist) following an
appraisal mission in November/December 1974.



Table of Contents (Continued)
TABLES
1.     Five-Year Highway M-laintenance and Development Program (1973-77)
2.     Development of the Highway Network, 1961-74
3.     Vehicle Registration, 1968-73
4.     Government Expenditures for Highways, 1970-74
5.     Revenues from Road User Charges, 1970-74
6.     Design Standards for Project Roads and Bridge
7.     List of Equipment to be Procured and Cost Estimate
8.     Estimated Annual Operating Costs for Feeder Road Unit
9.     Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10.     Income Levels of Beneficiaries of Highway Projects
11.     Sensitivity Analysis of Economic Returns
12.     Selected Import Duties, Taxes, and Registration Fees
13.     Total Consumption of Petroleum Products, 1969-74
14.     Typical Road Construction and Maintenance Costs
ANNEXES
1.     Outline Terms of Reference for Experts to be attached
to Planning Division of MPW
2.     Details of Economic Analysis
MAPS
Third Highway Project - Main Road Network (10292 R1)
Monrovia - Port Access Roads and Mount Coffee Dam Road (10291 R1)



LIBERIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        Liberia's economy, based largely on the exploitation of natural
resources such as iron ore, rubber, and timber, has grown rapidly in recent
years, but that growth has had little developmental impact on the rural
population.  The Government's present policy is to expand the economic
base by improving agriculture. As part of this strategy, it is placing
considerable emphasis on the improvement of transport facilities. Since
roads are the predominant mode of transport for both passengers and non-
enclave goods, and since the network is far from adequate, the Government
prepared in 1972 a comprehensive Five-Year Road Maintenance and Development
Program (1973-77), and convened an aid coordination meeting of bilateral and
multilateral donors to seek financing for its implementation. The Bank Group
is making two important contributions to this program through the existing
Second Highway Project and a third project now proposed.
ii.       The Second Highway Project which covers the highest priority items
of the Five-Year Program, includes: (i) implementation of a four-year road
maintenance program; (ii) upgrading the Monrovia Bypass (8.4 mi); and (iii)
provision of consulting services for preinvestment studies and for a study
of the domestic construction industry. Implementation of the maintenance
program is being retarded by delays in equipment procurement and shortage
of local funds. Construction work on the Monrovia Bypass is well underway.
The preinvestment studies have been satisfactorily completed and form the
basis for construction works under the present project.
iii.      The Third Highway Project covers the remaining high priority
construction items in the Five-Year Road Program, and also initiates Bank
Group assistance in the important area of feeder road development. The
project consists of: (i) construction of the Mesurado River Bridge and
the UN Drive (5.4 mi) in Monrovia; (ii) construction and realignment of
the Totota-Ganta road (83 mi); (iii) construction of feeder roads included
in the IDA-financed Lofa County Agricultural Development Project; (iv) tech-
nical assistance to the Planning Division of the Ministry of Public Works
(}SW); and (v) consulting services for: (a) supervision of construction;
(b) feasibility studies for improvement of the roads Ganta-Tapeta (65 mi)
and Ganta-Sanniquellie (25 mi); (c) detailed engineering for the Mount
Coffee Dam road (15 mi); and (d) a study of Monrovia's urban development
and transport system. Total project costs, excluding taxes, are estimated
at about US$46.7 million equivalent, of which about US$33.5 million (72%)
in foreign costs, and about US$13.2 million equivalent in local costs. The
proposed Loan will finance US$27.5 million of the foreign costs (60% of
total costs net of taxes); the African Development Bank (ADB) is expected
to finance the remaining US$6 million, and the Government will meet all the
local costs.



- ii -
iv.       MPW will be responsible for execution of the project, with assis-
tance provided for the tasks in item (v) above by consultants to be selected
in agreement with and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Construction works are expected to start in early 1976, and to take about
three years to complete. Construction contracts will be awarded following
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Separate bids will be called for UN Drive, the bridge, and Totota-Ganta
road which will be divided into two sections Totota-Gbarnga and Gbarnga-
Ganta, the latter to be financed by the ADB loan. Supervision of con-
struction of the Totota-Ganta road will be by the same consultants to be
financed by the Bank and ADB in proportion to the cost of their respective
sections of the road.
v.        The proposed feeder road works will be carried out by MPW force
account by an independently-financed and managed feeder road unit to be
created within the Ministry's Construction Bureau. The proposed Loan will
finance the purchase of equipment, spare parts, and materials for the unit,
and also the foreign exchange portion of unit operating costs, with provision
for funding foreign exchange component of the Team Leader's services if not
covered by bilateral assistance. Equipment, spare parts, and materials will
be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Details of arrangements for execution of the feeder
road program (including creation and staffing of the unit, establishment of
a revolving fund, and amount of local cost contributions) have been agreed
with the Government.
vi.       The technical assistance to MPW's newly created Planning Division
will continue and consolidate the much-needed institution-building effort
in sectoral management and highway planning started under the ongoing
Second Highway Project. It will improve the capacity of the responsible
agencies to evaluate and plan transport investments, and to oversee the
various transport industries.
vii.      The urban study of Monrovia will investigate and analyze urban
development policies, and make recommendations for an efficient transport
system in the capital city, with due regard to the issue of future land use
and its interaction with transport. Because of the important connection
between a sound urban transport policy and the proposed civil works on the
Mesurado River Bridge and UN Drive, the Bank will assist the Government in
preparing terms of reference for the urban study, and consultants for the
study will be appointed by January 1, 1976.
viii.     The direct beneficiaries of the project represent a broad range
in terms of income distribution. Construction of the Mesurado River Bridge
and improvement of UN Drive will not only ease the present urban congestion,
but will also improve access to Monrovia port.  Construction of the Totota-
Ganta road and the Lofa County feeder roads will provide or improve key
sections of the rural transport system, thus assuring better access to
market centers combined with increased earning possibilities for the rural
population in the service areas of the project roads. In analyzing the



- iii -
justification for the project investments, efficiency prices of invest-
ments and benefits have been used; on the basis of the quantifiable bene-
fits, principally reduced transport costs for existing roads, the proposed
investments can be expected to yield an overall economic return of.about
23%. Individual returns for the three major project items are: bridge
construction, about 16%; improvement of UN Drive, about 36%; construction
of Totota-Ganta road, about 38%.
ix.       The proposed project is suitable for a Loan of US$27.5 million to
the Government of Liberia. An appropriate Loan term would be 25 years
including a 5-year grace period.






LIBERIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Liberia is following a policy to expand the
base for the country's economic development, now dependent largely on
the enclave mining sector, to agriculture; as part of this strategy, it
is placing considerable emphasis on the improvement of transport facili-
ties. In 1972, the Government prepared a Five-Year Road Maintenance and
Development Program, and in October of that year, convened an aid coordi-
nation meeting to seek financing for the program. The Bank Group is making
two important contributions to this road development program through its
ongoing Second Highway Project (Loan 907/Credit 395-LBR, US$5.6 million,
June 1973), and through the Third Highway Project now proposed (paras.
1,04-1.06).
1.02      The proposed project will be the fourth Bank Group operation in
the transport sector. A (First) Highway Project (Loan 368-LBR, US$3.25
million, 1964) consisted of construction of about 62 mi of new roads, pro-
curement of road maintenance equipment and spare parts, and construction
of workshop facilities. Inadequate engineering by the Department of Public
Works and Utilities necessitated re-design of the roads, with a resulting
two-year delay in project implementation and a substantial cost overrun
requiring a supplementary Loan of US$1 million in 1965. The entire proj-
ect was satisfactorily completed and the Loan fully disbursed by June 30,
1969.
1.03      A second Loan for transport (617-LBR, US$3.6 million, 1969) helped
finance a project for dredging the Port of Monrovia, and for management
assistance to the National Port Authority. The project has been completed
satisfactorily, and the remaining funds in the Loan Account (about US$330,000)
are being used to finance a comprehensive port development study now being
carried out by consultants (para 2.06).
1.04      The ongoing Second Highway Project consists of:  (i) a four-year
road maintenance program; (ii) upgrading of the Monrovia Bypass; (iii)
feasibility studies and detailed engineering for about 185 mi of roads;
and (iv.) a study of the domestic construction industry. Bank/IDA lending
is financing US$5.6 million of the foreign exchange costs of the project;
the remainder is being met by a USAID loan (US$4.4 million) for procurement
and repair of maintenance equipment, and by a grant from the Federal Repub-
lic of Germany (US$1.9 million equivalent) for training of highway per-
sonnel.
1.05      Implementation of the maintenance program is progressing only
slowly, due partly to delays in equipment procurement, and partly to the
Government's failure to provide adequate local funds. The Bank/IDA has



-2-
drawn the Government's attention to this latter problem. Discussions have
been held on this issue, and the Government has submitted a revised funding
program for Bank review. Timely execution of the maintenance program was
further threatened by a US$4.0 million cost overrun on the USAID-financed
equipment, but that agency has recently confirmed to the Government that it
will provide the required supplementary financing; delivery of the equipment
will however be delayed by about one year. In the meantime, the Government
has started rehabilitation of its existing equipment to permit the start of
maintenance operations. The construction contract for the Monrovia Bypass
has been awarded to an Italian firm, and work is well underway. The engi-
neering studies have served as the basis for construction items included in
the proposed third project. Draft terms of reference for the construction
industry study have been prepared, and are being reviewed by the Government.
1.06      The proposed Third Highway Project covers the remaining high prior-
ity items of the Five-Year Road Program, and initiates Bank Group assistance
in the important area of feeder road development. The project consists of:
(i) construction of Mesurado River Bridge and the UN Drive (5.4 mi) in
Monrovia, the Totota-Ganta road (83 mi), and construction of feeder roads
included in the IDA-financed Lofa County Agricultural Development Project;
(ii) technical assistance to NPW's Planning Division; (iii) preinvestment
studies for about 90 mi of secondary roads; and (iv) a study of Monrovia's
urban development and transport system. Total project costs, excluding
taxes, are estimated at about US$46.7 million equivalent, including foreign
costs of about US$33.5 million (72%) and local costs of about US$13.2 mil-
lion equivalent. The proposed project is a large one considering Liberia's
population, but is well justified because it is intended to compensate
for past shortcomings in highway development, and represents the bulk of
Government investments in the mode over the next five years (para. 2.10).
The proposed Loan will finance US$27.5 million of the foreign costs of the
project, and the African Development Bank (ADB) is expected to finance the
remaining US$6 million; the Government will meet all the local costs.
1.07      This report is based on studies carried out by consultants Stanley
(US) and Ove Arup (UK), and on the findings of an appraisal mission consist-
ing of Messrs. P. Gyamfi (Economist/Engineer) and E. Fellinghauer (Engineer),
and Ms. A. Galenson (Economist) which visited Liberia in November/December
1974.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      Liberia, with an area of about 43,000 sq mi, has a generally flat
terrain with no major topographic obstacles to transport. The total popula-
tion, estimated at about 1.5 million in 1974, is unevenly distributed, with
well over 60% occupying about one-third of the land area in the central
regions of the country, and almost 15% in Monrovia alone (population about
220,000). Per capita Gross Domestic product increased over the last decade



-3-
at about 3% p.a. to about US$260 in 1973, which is high compared to most
African countries. This growth was however based mostly in the enclave
mining centers and was not accompanied by much development elsewhere; the
economy therefore suffers from a dichotomy between the prosperous modern
sector and the underdeveloped subsistence sector.
2.02      Past Government policy has encouraged large-scale (mostly foreign)
private investment in iron-mining and rubber, but these investments have
created few jobs for Liberians, and have stimulated only a few industries,
since products are not processed locally. Recent Government plans, however,
accord high priority to rural and agricultural development as a base for
future economic growth, and as a means to reduce the differential between
the enclave and subsistence sectors. The Bank Group is helping the Gov-
ernment realize this goal through an agricultural development project (Credit
306-LBR, US$1.2 million, 1972) and the Lofa County Agricultural Development
Project (Credit 577-LBR Us$6 Million, 1975).  The proposed project will con-
tribute to this development effort through its component for feeder roads,
as well as through the planned improvement of the Totota-Ganta road which is
part of the major trunk route connecting the country's most populated rural
areas to the capital city of Monrovia.
B.   The Transport System
2.03      Liberia's transport system consists of about 4,500 mi of roads,
300 mi of privately owned railways, four seaports, and five airports of
which two provide international service. Roads are the predominant mode
of transport for both passengers and non-enclave goods. Coastal shipping
is insignificant.
Roads
2.04      Details of the highway system and its administration, as well as
the characteristics of the road transport industry, are given in Chapter 3.
Railways
2.05      The railways are all owned and operated by four mining concessions,
and are used almost exclusively for transporting iron ore from the mines to
the ports; this traffic increased from about 12 million tons in 1964 to about
25 million tons in 1973. The railways also carry some 10,000 tons of rubber
and 6,000 tons of logs annually, and about 150 passengers daily on the line
run by the Liberian American Mining Company (LAMCO). Government plans call
for more public use of the railways to help develop their surrounding areas.
Accordingly, during a recent review of its concession agreements, LAIICO has
undertaken to study and implement the integration of its utilities and trans-
port system with the surrounding countryside; similar arrangements are ex-
pected to be made with the other three concessions.



-4-
Ports
2.06      There are four seaports:  Monrovia and Buchanan are deep-water
ports which handle about 85% of foreign trade; Greenville and Cape Palmas
(Ilarper), both shallow-water ports, handle mainly logs (about 150,000 tons
p.a.). All four ports are managed fairly efficiently, Buchanan by LAMCO,
and the others by the National Port Authority (NPA). The ports of Monrovia
and Buchanan have adequate capacity to handle the continuing expansion of
traffic. Consultants are now carrying out a comprehensive port development
study which will make recommendations for increasing capacity in the south-
east ports and other future investments.
Airports
2.07      The two major airports, Robertsfield and Spriggs Payne, both near
Monrovia, are served by Air Liberia and 12 international airlines. Inter-
national passenger traffic, mostly in transit, has been increasing at about
15% p.a. over the past three years, and the growth in overall traffic demand
appears high enough to support both airports. Domestic air transport has
stagnated over the past six years, mainly due to the opening up of new roads
to the interior, and perhaps also to the high accident rate. Domestic serv-
ice, however, remains important for transport to remote parts of the country
not yet served by road, but there is no prospect of or need for increased
airport capacity.
C.   Transport Planning and Coordination
2.08      Planning responsibilities in the transport sector are shared by
several Ministries and Government agencies: the Ministry of Public Works
(MPW) for highway planning, the National Port Authority (NPA) for ports,
and the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Transportation (MCIT) for
civil aviation; railway investments are planned by the mining concessions.
MCIT is by statute responsible for intermodal coordination of transport
investments, and the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs is responsi-
ble for integrating transport plans with those for other sectors of the
economy. This set-up is theoretically adequate, but MCIT has no staff to
perform its function properly, "Transport" being only a recent appendage
to the already large Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
2.09      Plans for port and airport development are usually made following
recommendations by consultants based on their particular financial and oper-
ational- capacities. For roads, MPW has only recently begun to pay attention
to long-term and integrated planning. The first attempt was the Five-Year
Highway Maintenance and Development Program (1973-77), formulated with Bank
Group assistance (Table 1). 14PW has since created a Planning Division to
perform this task in-house and to update the plan on a continuing basis.
The proposed project provides technical assistance to help build up the
Division's capacity, and UNDP has agreed to provide three overseas fellow-
ships for Liberian graduates to be trained in the disciplines required by
the Division. Although MCIT is still weak in planning of transport invest-
ments and policy, no significant coordination issues exist; assistance is



-5-
necessary at this time to set up a separate planning unit within the Ministry.
However, to strengthen its capacity, MCIT plans to attach two of its newly
recruited economists to MPW's Planning Division for training by the expert
staff; this arrangement for staffing assignments has been confirmed with the
Government, and agreement reached on a schedule for its implementation
(para 4.17).
2.10      Current priorities in the transport sector are:  (i) to improve
road maintenance; (ii) to improve road access to the port of Monrovia, a
prime center of economic activity; (iii) to upgrade key primary roads and
improve and extend the secondary road system in centers of agricultural
development activities; (iv) to provide farm-to-market roads to support
the Government's efforts in rural development; and (v) to increase port
capacity in the southeast. The current Five-Year Road Development Program
addresses itself to most of the above priorities (Table 1). Road mainte-
nance is being reorganized and improved under the Second Highway Project.
Construction of the Monrovia Bypass also under the second project, together
with improvement of UN Drive and construction of the new Mesurado River
Bridge under the proposed project, will greatly improve access to the port
of Mtonrovia; also, the planned paving of the Totota-Ganta road will improve
a key primary route. Several agencies are engaged in rural road construc-
tion (para. 3.02); the present highway project will make a start of Bank
involvement in this area.
2.11      Execution of the Five-Year Road Program, although slightly behind
schedule, is proceeding satisfactorily. Implementation of most of the
planned investments is already underway, and most of the items (including
those under the present project) should be near completion by the end of
the plan period in 1977.
2.12      Transport investments beyond 1977 will be identified on the basis
of already available data, and from ongoing feasibility studies. The
required synthesis of the data and formulation of the new transport plan
will be done by MCIT with support from NPW's Planning Division. Perform-
ance of this role by MCIT and the Planning Division will provide essential
training for local staff, and will also firmly establish the institutions
necessary to plan transport investments on a continuing basis. An under-
standing in principle has been reached with the Government on this proposed
role of MCIT and the Planning Division (paras. 4.15-4.17).
3. HIGHWAYS
A.   The Road Network
3.01      The public road network totals about 1,880 mi of all-weather roads
(of which about 210 mi paved) and 1,260 mi of roads which are serviceable
only during the dry season (Table 2). In addition, the rubber and lumber
concessions in the country have opened about 1,400 mi of private roads with



-6-
laterite surfacing, and an undetermined mileage of tracks in forest areas.
The system is still quite inadequate for present needs, with many areas of
the country having only poor road connections, and some areas not served at
all (Map 10292 R 1). A particular deficiency exists with regard to secon-
dary and feeder roads, where the lack of facilities hampers development of
many areas with agricultural potential. Most of the feeder roads were built
by forestry companies and other private enterprises as short-term low-stand-
ard haul roads, and many are merely earth tracks with a minimum of drainage
structures; moreover, neither PWD nor the local communities served by these
roads have made any efforts to maintain them. Also, many well settled and
agriculturally active areas of the country are not yet connected to the main
road network, the only means of farm-to-market transport consequently being
head porterage.
3.02      To improve the above situation, several Ministries (Public Works,
Agriculture, Development Planning, and Local Government) are engaged in
rural road construction. Contributions to these road programs are made
by several foreign agencies, particularly the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) and Export-Import Bank, the Governments
of the Federal Republic of Germany and of the United Kingdom, and the
African Development Bank (ADB). All the above agencies are giving special
emphasis to feeder road construction, and the Bank Group is becoming in-
volved in this area through the present project. The efforts of the var-
ious agencies are however not properly coordinated, and this will be one
of the principal tasks of the Planning Division recently established
within MPW.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.03      The composition and growth of the vehicle fleet is shown in
Table 3. The fleet increased at a high 11% p.a. over 1960-70, but the
rate has since declined to about 4% p.a., partly because larger trucks
are replacing smaller ones, and because the number of mini-buses is
increasing rapidly at the expense of taxis. Of the 22,800 vehicles
registered in 1973, almost 40% were trucks and buses. It is difficult
to estimate accurately the proportion of the fleet used exclusively in
Monrovia, since all vehicle registration is done there, and no informa-
tion is kept on where they are actually used; however, a consultants'
study carried out in December 1974 indicated that about. 75% of all auto-
mobiles, delivery vans, and buses are used predominantly in Monrovia.
3.04      Consultants have conducted traffic counts on roads proposed for
major improvements, as well as a one-time survey of the entire primary net-
work, but regular and systematic counting is only now being introduced in
MPW with the help of technical assistance under the Second Highway Project.
Available data indicate that some 200 mi of roads carry over 500 vehicles
per day (vpd), and about 1,000 mi more than 100 vpd. The most heavily
trafficked road outside the capital is Monrovia-Totota-Ganta, which car-
ries about 3,000 vpd near the city, and some 400 vpd nearer the Ganta end.
Within Monrovia, traffic levels averaging about 24,000 vpd have been rec-
orded on Lower UN Drive. Consultants have estimated future traffic devel-
opment on the basis of an analysis of economic trends, and have forecast a



-7-
growth rate of about 5% p.a. over 1971-81; data collected so far indicate a
slighly higher current growth rate of around 7% p.a.
C.   The Road Transport Industry
3.05      Regulation of the road transport industry is the responsibility of
the Land Transport Division of MCIT. Existing regulations govern only vehicle
licensing, registration and inspection; tariffs for inter-city taxi services;
and vehicle weights and dimensions and axle-load limits. "For hire" trucking
and other passenger transport are free from regulations governing routes,
tariffs, or entry into the industry.
3.06      Regulations of vehicle weights and dimensions are adequate, except
that the maximum permissible single-axle load of 18,000 lb is rather low,
considering the importance of log transport in the country. Heavy overload-
ing of trucks is therefore prevalent, and this causes considerable damage to
the road network. This problem was brought to MPW's attention during super-
vision of the Second Highway Project, and the Government was asked to con-
sider increasing the maximum permissible axle-load. However, the Government
prefers to protect its road investments by enforcing traffic regulations,
since log transport is restricted to only a few roads. Regulations have so
far been poorly enforced, but substantial improvement is expected following
the recent establishment of a Bureau of MIotor Vehicles within the Ministry
of Justice. The Bank/IDA has recently approved the procurement of weigh-
bridges for vehicle control with funds from the Second Highway Project, and
this should further strengthen the enforcement of regulations.
3.07      The passenger transport industry in Monrovia is dominated by
passenger-cars, taxis, and mini-buses, primarily because of the absence
of a well-organized bus system, and the inadequacy of private funds to
purchase large buses. The density of the vehicle fleet in Monrovia has
increased from one per 23 persons in 1953 to about one per 10 persons in
1974. This concentration of traffic in the capital means that its main
arteries, particularly UN Drive and the Mesurado River bridge, are heavily
trafficked and severely congested. In an attempt to solve this problem,
the Government commissioned a study by Daimler-Benz (Germany) to make rec-
ommendations on establishment of an efficient bus system which would provide
adequate and economical transport to all parts of the city. The scope of
the study was limited to determining the required fleet size, and the
logistics of its management and operation. It did not address the possi-
bility of integrating the existing individually owned mini-buses into the
proposed system, and even more importantly, did not consider adequately
future land use or the implications of their proposal in this respect.
The recommendations are therefore of little use as a basis for planning
an efficient system, the need for which is becoming increasingly vital.
The proposed project therefore provides consulting services for a compre-
hensive urban study of Monrovia, which will include an assessment of and
recommendations for an optimal passenger transport service for the city.



-8-
3.08      "For-hire" goods and passenger transport to the interior of the
country is largely owner-operated or provided by a few small firms with about
3-5 vehicles each. Individual owners are organized into a motor union, but
are still quite independent and unrestricted, and are free to arrange their
business and negotiate prices directly with their customers. Competition
is keen, and since there is no price regulation or "middle man," a consid-
erable proportion of decreases in operating costs is expected to be trans-
ferred to producers and consumers. The industry has fared quite well,
despite the fact that poor road conditions have considerably slowed down
the shift to larger and more economical trucks and buses, and have resulted
in short vehicle life and consequent high depreciation rates.
D.   Administration
3.09      The Ministry of Public Works (MPW) is responsible for administra-
tion of the public highway network; it performs its functions through four
Bureaus, one each for Administrative Services, Technical Services, Operations,
and Construction. Under the four-year maintenance program financed as part
of the Second Highway Project, the Bureau of Operations is being reorganized,,
and a Planning Division established within MPW.
3.10      A major objective of MPW's reorganization will be the improvement
of its staffing situation. The Ministry has experienced great difficulty
in hiring qualified personnel, primarily for engineering positions, due to
the relatively low Government salaries as compared with those offered by
private industry. MPW staff numbers will have to be increased due to
intensified maintenance activities and the establishment of the Planning
Division, and efforts will have to be made to retain these persolnel in
the Government service. The Government has tried to relieve the staffing
situation by raising the salaries of engineers, foremen, mechanics and
operators in January 1973, and by hiring expatriate staff to fill various
engineering positions. Since then, some progress has been made in recruit-
ing qualified local personnel, and the German-financed training program for
middle-level staff (equipment operators, mechanics, and road foremen) under
the ongoing second project, will provide further improvement. Additionally,
two of the key positions in the Planning Division (transport economist and
planner) will be filled by experts whose services over a two-year period
will be financed under the proposed project. The Division will eventually
be manned by local MPW staff trained abroad under fellowships provided by
UNDP.
E.   Financing
3.11      Road construction works have been financed largely by foreign
lending, with the Bank Group and USAID the principal sources (about US$10
million and US$21 million respectively over the past 10 years). Aid agencies
of the Governments of the Federal Republic of Germany and the United Kingdom
also participate in financing road construction and maintenance works. More
recently, ADB is also becoming involved in these efforts, with US$3 million
already committed for engineering and construction, and a loan of US$6 million



-9-
currently being considered to help finance work on the Totota-Ganta road
under the proposed Third Highway Project. Considering the country's road
development program and the limited local funds available, substantial ex-
ternal financing will remain necessary for some time. Since the emphasis in
the future will be on rural roads, an area in which almost all the aid
agencies have expressed interest, it should not be difficult to secure the
necessary funds.
3.12      Recurrent annual expenditures from the general budget for all MPW
operations (administration, technical services, force account construction,
and maintenance) have increased from about US$2.1 million in 1970 to about
US$3.2 million in 1974, about 12% p.a. (Table 4). Also during 1970-74,
revenues from user taxes on fuel, vehicles, spare parts and tires, and from
annual registration fees, amounted to a yearly average of about US$8.1 mil-
lion (Table 5), more than enough to cover MPW's yearly average expenditures
on administration, maintenance, and new road construction; these funds are
not earmarked for road investment, but go into the general budget. The
Government has provided assurances that it will furnish adequate funds for
highway work, including road maintenance.
F.   Engineering and Construction
3.13      Engineering studies for major road construction works are carried
out by foreign consultants, of which one (Stanley, US) has a branch office
in Monrovia. The few local consulting firms are not yet established in road
design, and specialize in architectural projects. MPW's Bureau of Technical
Services designs minor works such as secondary and feeder roads with assis-
tance provided by the Ministry's soils and material testing laboratory, and
is reasonably competent in this field. Construction supervision for high-
way projects financed with international or bilateral assistance is gen-
erally carried out by foreign consultants; however, MPW will supervise
construction of USAID-financed secondary roads, the contract for which
was recently awarded to a local firm.
3.14      MPW has not yet developed its own road standards, and in prin-
ciple follows US design practices; in effect, however, these standards
are not applied uniformly. Depending on the preferences of consultants
employed for a particular study, different lane and shoulder widths are
often selected for roads having similar functions and traffic loads.
Design standards for farm-to-market roads constructed by various Govern-
ment agencies are chosen without proper consideration of traffic levels
or volur4e of goods transported. MPW has been made aware of this shortcom-
ing, and agreed at project appraisal that it will develop its own road
standards, and ensure their uniform application among the different
agencies. The Planning Division will be charged with the responsibility
for assuring that this practice is followed.
3.15      All major road contracts are executed by foreign firms; the scope
of these works has however been very limited due to the country's small size
and scarce resources. Foreign companies have therefore shown only limited



- 10 -
interest in Liberia, and when they do bid for works, their mobilization
costs are disproportionately high. This problem will be even more severe
in secondary and feeder road construction due to the low contract amounts
of individual projects.
3.16      Only three domestic contractors have been employed so far for
execution of road and bridge construction works. They have only limited
finances and small equipment fleets, however, and this has prevented their
participation in major road construction. The chances for improving this
situation are hampered by the absence of any Government assistance to these
firms, as well as by the lack of continuity in civil works. Local con-
tractors are all now engaged in USAID-financed rural road construction
works which will keep them fully occupied until end-1976. This period
should be used to advantage in working out a proposal for assisting the
domestic construction industry, and preparing it to compete effectively
for larger road projects.
3.17      The Second Highway Project provides for a study of the local
construction industry to determine its optimum capacity, to identify
measures required to develop the necessary capacity and competitiveness
within the industry, and to ensure reasonable continuity of work. The
study was prompted largely by the Government's intention to undertake
large-scale construction by force account or by a National Construction
Corporation. However, after plans to form a corporation were abandoned,
the urgency of the study diminished considerably, and the Government lost
interest. Its feeling now is that any assistance needed by local contractors
could be determined and provided on an ad hoc basis. The study as originally
envisaged is however still considered necessary to identify long-range action
required in the industry, and the Government has been urged to expedite its
decision about implementing it.
3.18      AGRIMECO, a company wholly owned by the Ministry of Agriculture
and managed by a staff of six expatriates, is also active in the construc-
tion industry. Although its activities are primarily in land-clearing
operations, it has built some feeder roads. Depending on the workload
assigned to it by the Ministry of Agriculture, AGRIMECO would be able to
execute some minor road construction, if its work is properly supervised.
3.19      MPW has long wanted to have its Construction Bureau participate in
major road construction, and had expressed an interest in constructing the
Monrovia Bypass financed under the Second Highway Project. MPW eventually
agreed with the Bank/IDA to concentrate its limited capacity on road main-
tenance, but has again raised the issue in connection with feeder road
construction under the proposed project. Considering MPW's present finan-
cial and operational deficiencies, however, this option would be viable
only if feeder road construction were undertaken separately from the Ministry's
day-to-day operations. The proposed project provides for the creation of a
special feeder road unit which will be independently financed and managed
(paras. 4.11-4.14).



- 11 -
G.   Maintenance
3.20      MPW's Bureau of Operations is responsible for the maintenance of
roads and of public properties; it performs this task through six Regional
Districts and County Offices, each headed by a resident engineer. Mainte-
nance and repair of equipment is done by the Bureau's Mobile Equipment
Division which comprises the Central Workshops at Monrovia and five field
stations. The 1972 SAUTI study on highway maintenance had stressed the
need to reorganize present operations by introducing efficient techniques,
training personnel, and rehabilitating and expanding PWD's equipment fleet;
these recommendations are being implemented under the Second Highway Project
with technical assistance provided by SAUTI.
3.21      SAUTI had also recommended an increase in the budgetary appropria-
tions for maintenance, and these have risen to about US$1.6 million in 1974
(Table 4). However, Government funds in that year were short by about US$0.5
million, and this has contributed to delays in the maintenance program during
the period. For 1975, budget allocations for recurrent expenditures and
the development costs to implement the four-year maintenance program are
lower than the consultants' estimates by about US$1.5 million. Subsequent
to consultants' estimate, further delays in equipment delivery have occurred
(para. 1.05) and the Government has restudied the funding requirements, and
has provided satisfactory evidence that adequate funds are available for 1975.
The Government has agreed to provide the necessary funds in accordance with
budget allocations to be agreed with the Bank for the years 1976 and 1977
(para. 4.32).
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01      The proposed project consists of:
(a) construction of a two-lane bridge (1,400 ft) across the
Mesurado River in Monrovia;
(b) upgrading of United Nations Drive (5.4 mi) in Monrovia;
(c) construction and realignment of the Totota-Ganta road
(83 mi);
(d) a three-year program for construction and improvement of
about 150 mi of feeder roads;
(e) technical assistance to MPW's Planning Division;
(f) consulting services for: (i) construction supervision of
items (a), (b) and (c) above; (ii) feasibility studies for
improvement of the roads Ganta-Tapeta (65 mi) and Ganta-
Sanniquellie (25 mi); (iii) detailed engineering for the



- 12 -
Mount Coffee Dam road (15 mi); and (iv) a study of
MIonrovia's urban development and transport system.
Construction of the Mesurado River Bridge
4.02      The existing bridge is a 790 ft two-lane multi-span I-beam struc-
ture, built in 1946 as a haul road for construction of Monrovia port. The
bridge was renovated in 1968, and is now in good structural condition. How-
ever, its capacity is inadequate to accommodate peak-hour traffic, and long
delays result. During most of the day, operating conditions remain close to
capacity, far below an acceptable level for urban areas. Traffic is pres-
ently about 24,000 vpd, and is expected to grow at about 6% p.a. to about
34,000 vpd in 1980, and to around 45,000 by 1985; unless bridge capacity
is increased, this traffic situation, will lead to unmanageable operating
conditions. The problem of limited capacity is compounded by inefficient
channelling of traffic through the congested market area on to the northern
approach to the bridge (para. 5.05).
4.03      The proposed project provides for construction of a new additional
bridge (a 1,400 ft post-tensioned concrete girder) with a two-lane roadway,
as well as for improvement of the southern approach to the bridges. (Design
standards are shown in Table 6.) Construction of the additional bridge,
combined with reorganization of passenger transport and effective enforcement
of parking regulation especially in the market area, will ensure operation at
an acceptable level of service through at least 1990. Proper diffusion of
bridge traffic into downtown Monrovia will be made possible by the improve-
ment of city streets to be financed by an Italian Government loan.
4.04      Following construction of the new bridge, several complementary
actions would be required to derive the maximum benefit from the investment.
These include: (i) introduction of an efficient passenger transport system
in the Monrovia area aimed at reducing the number of mini-buses and private
vehicles; (ii) solving the existing parking problem by effective enforce-
ment of parking regulations, especially in the market and industrial area;
and (iii) efficient channelling of traffic from the two bridges on to adja-
cent streets. The appropriate actions are expected to be determined by the
study of Monrovia's urban development and transport system to be carried out
under the proposed project (para. 4.23).
Upgrading of UN Drive (5.4 mi)
4.05      UN Drive forms the final link of the primary road system to the
port of Monrovia, and via the Mesurado River bridge, connects the city with
its harbor area (Map 10291 R1). Traffic now averages about 24,000 vpd on
the road section nearest the bridge, decreasing to about 3,500 vpd at the
other end. The existing 20 ft pavement has many potholes and ravelled
edges due to the combined effects of dense traffic, inadequate maintenance,
and poor drainage. No walkways are provided for the heavy pedestrian traf-
fic, and part of the road becomes flooded during the rainy season. Recent



- 13 -
maintenance rehabilitation works done by MPW have not arrested the deteri-
oration. Because of the high traffic volumes on Lower UN Drive and the
spill-over effects from the adjoining bridge, this section of the road is
congested during peak flows on most working days.
4.06      The project provides for improvement of UN Drive to the following
design standards which take account of the variations in traffic density,
commercial activity, and operating conditions on different sections of the
road: Lower UN Drive (1.5 mi) will be built as a four-lane divided highway;
Middle UN Drive (2.0 mi) will have two lanes with parking lanes on each side;
Upper UN Drive (1.9 mi) will be a two-lane road (Table 6). These standards
are considered adequate for present and forecast traffic loads. The design
provides for possible conversion of the parking strips into traffic lanes
when future traffic warrants this.
4.07      A study of the traffic situation in Monrovia leads to the conclusion
that construction of the Mesurado River Bridge, together with improvement of
UN Drive, are prerequisites for improving traffic movements in the capital
city, and for better access to the port area. This conclusion is borne out
by the land use pattern of Monrovia, which stretches in a belt along the
Atlantic Ocean, and where inland development is restricted by a swampy area.
As the bridges and UN Drive are the only possible road link between Monrovia
proper and its harbor area, the proposed construction works are essential to
provide additional traffic capacity. They do not foreclose further options
for improving M4onrovia's transport system which may result from the proposed
urban development study (para. 4.20-4.23) and remains justified, irrespective
of whether or not the actions spelled out in para. 4.04 above are undertaken.
Construction and Realignment of the Totota-Ganta Road (83 mi)
4.08      This two-lane section is part of the major trunk road linking the
northwest and east of the country with Monrovia, and providing the major
road connection to neighboring Guinea. Traffic counts in 1973 showed about
670 vpd on the first half of the road and 400 vpd on the second section.
Of this, about 250 vpd continue beyond Ganta; the remaining traffic either
turns off at secondary roads along the route or is local traffic. Trucks,
buses, and pick-ups constitute more than 40% of total traffic.
4.09      The laterite surface of the existing road is badly deteriorated,
with numerous potholes and severe corrugation, so that an average travel
speed of only about 20 mph is possible on many sections. Driving on the
road is-costly and hazardous because of extreme dust conditions during
the dry season, a muddy road surface during the rainy season, and inade-
quate vertical alignment.
4.10      The proposed project provides for construction of a two-lane paved
road. Although the new alignment generally follows the existing road for
most of its length, realignment of certain sections will reduce the length
of the road by about 1.5 mi. The design standards shown in Table 6 take
into consideration the generally flat to rolling terrain, and the high



- 14 -
proportion of heavy vehicles in the traffic composition; they are considered
adequate. Consultants have proposed a two-inch asphalt concrete surface
course on a crushed stone base for the first section, because of the high
traffic carried, and also because of the lack of natural base course mate-
rial in the vicinity; double surface treatment on a laterite base course
has been recommended for the second section. However, contractors will be
invited to submit alternative bids for a cement-stabilized base course for
the Totota-Gbarnga section (41.5 mi), and the least-cost solution will be
adopted.
Construction and Improvement of Feeder Roads
4.11      The proposed project provides for feeder road improvements in Lofa
County, and will complement investments made under the IDA-financed Lofa
Agricultural Development Project. The project area is relatively well
served by feeder roads, but they are in poor condition, and many of them
require realignment. In order to derive the fullest benefit from invest-
ments made under the above agricultural project, provision is made under
the present highway project for implementation of a three-year program of
construction and improvement of about 150 mi of feeder roads in that area.
The improvement works will include realignment and providing proper drain-
age structures and laterite surfacing as required.
4.12      Several alternatives for execution of the proposed works were
considered and discussed with the Government; these included the use of
foreign and local contractors, AGRIMECO, and MPW forces. Experience in
Liberia has however shown no response from foreign contractors for such
small-scale works, and local contractors are fully employed on USAID-
financed rural roads; moreover, the possible scope of work under future
similar projects is not sufficiently encouraging to divert building con-
tractors from their current operations. AGRINECO is fully booked with
projects for the Ministry of Agriculture. Since it was considered
desirable for MPW to have some capacity for feeder road construction,
the proposed project will be used to establish the institution to do this.
4.13      Accordingly, the feeder road program will be carried out by a
separate unit to be established within MPW's Construction Bureau. Construc-
tion equipment will be procured with Bank financing; staff for the unit will
be recruited by MPW (Table 7). The unit will be independently financed and
managed from NPW's day-to-day operations, and will be headed by an
expatriate road engineer/technician whose services the UK Government is
planning to provide under a technical assistance arrangement. In the event
these plans do not materialize, however, the proposed project includes the
necessary funds for his services. Table 8 gives details of the estimated
annual operating costs of the feeder road unit.
4.14      On termination of the proposed project, the unit will be used for
continuing feeder road construction and improvement in other parts of the
country. At present, MPW's equipment available for this work is inadequate,
and only a very limited program has been carried out so far. Creation of the
unit will therefore help fill a gap in MPW's organization.



- 15 -
Technical Assistance to MPW's Planning Division
4.15      In addition to the general reorganization of MPW's maintenance
operation suggested in the 1972 SAUTI Highway Administration and Mainte-
nance Study, one of its principal recommendations on institution-building
was the creation within MPW of a Planning Division. The principal func-
tions of the Division would include execution of transport sector surveys
and analysis of investment priorities; to do this, the Division would collect
and analyze the required data on road conditions, traffic, transport costs,
etc.
4.16      The Division was created in June 1974, and is staffed by a Director
whose functions are purely administrative, and an expatriate transport plan-
ner recruited by the Government. To make the Division fully operational in
the short term, the key positions of civil engineer and transport planner/eco-
nomist must be filled as soon as possible. The proposed project therefore
includes financing for the services of two technical assistance experts over
two years to fill these posts and train local counterpart staff; outline
terms of reference are given in Annex 1. As a longer-term solution, MPW
personnel will be trained in disciplines required by the Division under three
overseas fellowships which the UNDP has agreed to provide.
4.17      To ensure the proper functioning of the Planning Division, the
following items have been discussed and agreed in principle with the Govern-
ment: (i) outline terms of reference for the Division;. (ii) the method to
be used for selecting the proposed experts, and their terms of reference;
(iii) Government plans for selecting counterpart staff; and (iv) a time-table
for overseas training of Liberian personnel under the UNDP fellowships, and
for their assignment in the Planning Division.
Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering of Primary Roads
4.18      The project also provides for feasibility studies of the roads
Ganta-Tapeta (65 mi) and Ganta-Sanniquellie (25 mi).  These two roads are
extensions of the Totota-Ganta road, and form part of the main rural
network serving major agricultural areas. They each carry traffic esti-
mated at 200 vpd. The feasibility studies will determine the improve-
ments required.
4.19      A feasibility study on upgrading the Mt. Coffee Dam road (15 mi)
is being carried out by consultants Davis/Tecsult (Sierra Leone) and Stanley
(US) with Bank/IDA financing under the Second Highway Project. The study
is expected to be completed towards end-1975, but the consultants' preliminary
conclusion is that paving of only about the first half of the road is
justified. The proposed project provides for the required detailed engin-
eering of sections whose upgrading is considered feasible.



- 16 -
Urban Planning Study of Monrovia
4.20      The master plan for Monrovia's development was formulated in 1960
along the recommendations of the Batell Institute of Germany. The institute
had recommended that the first phase of urban development be concentrated
along two principal axes, one stretching from downtown east along the
Kakata highway, and the other north along UN Drive (see Map 10291 R1);
elsewhere in the urban area, development is constrained by the existence
of swamps and lagoons, except on a narrow strip along the Monrovia Bypass.
4.21      Development along the Monrovia-Kakata highway axis is fast
approaching the limit where incremental cost, in terms of additional
public amenities and transport, is uneconomic. A similar situation is
expected within a decade along the second axis, where the port and
related commercial and industrial activities occupy much of the land
area. The Government is therefore concerned about the city's future
development, and has created a National Housing Authority as a state-
owned corporation, to plan and implement housing programs first in the
city, and later in the rural centers. This objective, though sound, can
be achieved only if action is based on a rational plan for future land use.
No such plan exists for Monrovia, except for the abovementioned Batell
Institute plan whose usefulness is limited to the UN Drive axis and will
terminate in a few years. For this reason, and also because of the inter-
relation between urban land use, the organization of public transport in
Monrovia, and the need to determine further infrastructure improvements
required on the UN Drive-Mesurado Bridge axis, it was agreed at appraisal
that the proposed project would include financing for an urban study.
4.22      One direct result of the restriction of development along the
two axes abovementioned is the traffic congestion on the Mesurado River
Bridge and on UN Drive, and the associated problems of investments on
these routes. Although the improvements proposed under the project would
remain necessary even if it is assumed that congestion would be reduced by
proper reorganization of passenger transport and enforcement of parking
and other traffic regulations, it is essential that these latter actions be
taken; otherwise, increasing capacity on the bridge and on UN Drive will
only attract more cars, as in the history of most cities, and will perpe-
tuate the need for capacity additions. In this regard, consultants Stanley
predict that unless steps are taken to shift passenger traffic from taxis
and private cars to mini-buses and buses, two additional traffic lanes will
be required by 1985 on both UN Drive and the new bridge. Aware of this
problem, the Government had commissioned the Daimler-Benz study (para 3.07),
but its limited scope did not permit investigation of various policy meas-
ures relating to city transport; it is therefore necessary that this prob-
lem be considered as part of the proposed comprehensive urban study. It has
been agreed with the Government that the Bank would send a mission to Liberia
in August/September 1975 to work with the Government in reviewing available
urban planning material, and drafting terms of reference for an appropriate
study. Detailed terms of reference would then be prepared for the Government's
consideration and use in engaging consultants.



- 17 -
4.23      The study is planned for execution in two phases as follows:  (i)
general urbanization studies will investigate urban development policies,
and identify and analyze various options and alternatives for such develop-
ment; recommendations will be submitted to the Government for its comments
and decisions; (ii) in the second phase, consultants will prepare a detailed
structural plan for the urban development option selected, and will recom-
mend appropriate steps necessary to solve the city's transport and housing
problems. This second phase may also include feasibility studies of high-
priority projects suitable for Bank Group financing in the event that the
Government has been able to identify such projects on the basis of first-
phase recommendations. The additional financing required for these feasi-
bility studies could be sought from UNDP, or provided retroactively under
the sites and services project that may have been identified.
B.   Cost Estimates
4.24      The total cost of the project (including contingencies) is esti-
mated at US$46.7 million, of which about US$33.5 million are foreign costs,
and about US$13.2 million equivalent in local costs, including about US$0.3
million equivalent in taxes. The Government charges no duties or taxes on
Bank-financed projects, and will only apply income taxes on local labor.
Details of project cost estimates are as follows:



- 18 -
Source of
Foreign               Cost (us$ 000)               Foreign
ITEM                        fnancing    Local        Foreign       Total      Component
1/ 
A. RECONSTRUCTION WORKS-
(a)  Mesurado River Bridge         1k           a8o      4,800        5 5 650         3
(b)  UN Drive                                 2,210      3,9L)0       6,150           64
(c)  Totota-Ganta Road           Bank/ADB    6,340      13,660       19.800           69
Subtotal  A                          9.200      22.400       33,600           71
El. CONSULTING SERVICES
AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ,
(a)  Supervision of Construction Bank/A.B   310          1,900        2,210           86
(b) Detailed Engineering at
Coffee Dam Road (15 mi)       Bank          8         5            60           86
(c)  Feasibility Studies Ganta-
Sanniquellie (25 mi) and
Ganta-Tapeta (65 mi) roads       "o                    2)!0        280           86
(d) Technical Assistance to
Planning Division                         21        129          150           86
(e) Urban Transport Study                        28         1.72        200           86
Subtotal  B                            h07       2,493        2,900
C.  FEEDER ROAD CONSTRUCTION-/
(a)  rquipmentL/                    Bank         43         487          530          92
(b)  Spare rarts and Tires-                      20         220          20           92
(c) Material                          H         140         445          585          76
(do  operating Costs (incl.labor) Bank/Govt.  375           120          495          24
Subtotal   C                          57-8      1,272        1,870           69
D. CONTINGENCIES
(i)  Quantities (10f   on
Items A and C)                         480       2,370       3,350
(ii)  Price Variations                       2,031       .972         7,003
Su 1.ot 1 D                          3,011       7,342      10,353
TOTAL                 13,196      33,$07      46,703
(rounded)            (13,200)   (33,500)    (46,700)
1/ Based on estimated September 1975 prices.
2/ Based on estimated June 1976 prices (equipment delivery).
3   Based on 15% p.a. of equipment costs (estimdatu June 1976 prices).



- 19 -
4.25      Costs for civil works are based on consultants' estimates follow-
ing detailed engineering studies, taking into account bid results received
in mid-1974 for similar works, and updated to reflect expected prices in
October 1975, the date planned for bid opening. Costs for consulting
services and technical assistance are based on current unit prices applied
in West African countries. A 10% physical contingency has been provided
for construction works to allow for possible quantity variations. Price
contingencies have been calculated to take account of inflation rates as
follows: (i) for the construction items, 16% in 1975, 14% in 1976, and
12% in 1977-79; and (ii) for the other items, 12% in 1975, 10% in 1976,
and 8% in 1977-79.
C.   Execution
4.26      MPW will be responsible for execution of the project.  The Ministry
will be assisted by consultants for construction supervision, feasibility
studies, detailed engineering and the urban planning study. Consultants and
the technical assistance experts to be attached to MPW's Planning Division
will be selected in agreement with and under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank. Consultants required for feasibility studies, final designs,
and the urban study will be appointed not later than January 1, 1976, unless
otherwise agreed with the Bank. These arrangements have been confirmed with
the Government.
Construction Works
4.27      Civil works construction is expected to start in early 1976; work
on the Mesurado River Bridge and on UN Drive is expected to take about two
years to complete, and on the Totota-Ganta road about three years. Speci-
fications and bidding documents have been prepared by consultants and
approved by the Bank. Construction contracts for the bridge, UN Drive and
the Totota-Ganta Road will be bid as separate packages. Construction con-
tracts will be awarded following international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank guidelines.
4.28      APE has agreed in principle to provide US$6.0 million to finance
the construction and supervision of the Gbarnga-Ganta section of the
Totota-Ganta road; ADB Board approval for this loan is expected during
August 1975, and signing of the ADB loan agreement is a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed Bank Loan. Supervision of construction of the
entire road (including the ADB-financed section) will be by the same consul-
tants.
Construction and Improvement of Feeder Roads
4.29      The design standards to be adopted will be selected by NPW's
Planning Division in collaboration with the Project Manager for the Lofa
County Agricultural Development Project. Selection of standards will take
into consideration expected traffic levels, annual volumes of goods to be
transported, type of terrain crossed, and availability of road-building
materials. MPW's Bureau of Technical Services will execute the required



- 20 -
engineering surveys, and provide the technical data and drawings necessary
for road construction.
4.30      Procurement of equipment and materials will be on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Equip-
ment suppliers will be required to provide adequate after-sales services
locally. Spare parts may be procured on the basis of locally advertised
competitive bidding; major suppliers are represented in Liberia, and compe-
tition between them is adequate. Equipment which in the interest of standar-
dization it is appropriate to obtain from a specific manufacturer, may be
procured following negotiations with suppliers of such equipment on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; the aggregate cost of spare parts
and standardized equipment which can be procured without international
competitive bidding should however not exceed $300,000.
4.31      MPW will submit for Bank approval the specific scope of each
year's work program at the beginning of that year. The program will
include a list of roads to be improved or constructed, design standards
to be used, and foreign and local cost requirements; on the basis of
this information, the amount of Government contributions will be agreed
with the Bank. In order to improve liquidity of funds for day-to-day
operations and for procurement of spare parts and materials, a revolving
fund will be created. The Government will be required to provide adequate
funds to cover estimated expenditures for each year's program at the begin-
ning of the fiscal year, and the Bank will reimburse these contributions.
The team leader, with Government countersignature, will be able to make with-
drawals from the revolving fund.
4.32      In accordance with the above proposals, agreements have been reached
with the Government on arrangements for: (i) staffing the feeder road unit;
(ii) selection of roads to be included in the annual program, and proposed
design standards; and (iii) setting up of the revolving fund and Government's
annual budget allocations to the fund.
D.   Financing and Disbursements
4.33      The proposed Loan of US$27.5 million will finance part of the
foreign exchange costs of the project, estimated at US$33.5 million and
representing about 72% of project costs, excluding taxes. ADB is expected
to contribute the remaining foreign costs of US$6.0 million. The Govern-
ment will provide all the local costs of the project, about US$13.2 mil-
lion equivalent excluding taxes.
4.34      Loan proceeds will be disbursed on the following basis:
(i) 85% of total expenditures for Mesurado River Bridge
construction contracts;
(ii)  64% of total expenditures for UN Drive construction
contracts;



- 21 -
(iii)  69% of total expenditures for Bank-financed section
of Totota-Ganta road construction contracts;
(iv) 86% of total expenditures for consulting services and
technical assistance, representing the estimated foreign
costs;
(v) 100% of the c.i.f. costs of imported equipment, spare
parts, and materials for the feeder road unit; and
(vi) 24% of the operating costs of the feeder road unit,
excluding equipment depreciation and spare parts.
Table 9 shows the estimated schedule of disbursements from the Loan Account
based on the above percentages and on the forecast of project execution.
Any funds remaining in the account on completion of the project will be made
available for additional preinvestment studies, technical assistance items,
or feeder road construction closely related to the objectives of the proposed
project.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      Liberia's economy has grown rapidly in recent years, but that
growth has had little developmental impact on the rural population. The
Government's present objective is to expand the economic base by empha-
sizing improved agriculture, and by so doing spread the developmental
benefits beyond the capital city and extend them especially to the rural
population which comprises almost 70% of total population. Rural develop-
ment efforts are now under implementation or being studied. The success
of these efforts will however depend greatly on the availability of effi-
cient means of transport, which in turn depends on the existence of trunk
roads leading to the ports, and of secondary and feeder roads linking
agricultural areas to the main arteries. The road network is presently
inadequate for the country's developmental needs, and has been a principal
impediment particularly to rural development.
5.02      The proposed project will improve the transport infrastructure
where negds are most critical. Construction of the Totota-Ganta road will
improve a key portion of the rural transport system. The average income
of people in the areas of the road is about US$70 p.a., only about one-
quarter of the national a-,,rage and about one-tenth of that in Monrovia.
Better access to market centers is expected to contribute to improvement
of this situation. Construction of the Mesurado River Bridge and improvement
of UN Drive will not only ease urban congestion, but will improve access to
Menrovia port. The direct beneficiaries of the proposed project therefore
represent a broad range in terms of income distribution. Table 10 shows
the approximate income level of each group of beneficiaries, and their



- 22 -
expected share of benefits. It is difficult to estimate quantitatively
how the effects of these benefits will diffuse to the Government and among
the population, but given the country's completely open economy, the dis-
tribution is expected to be wide.
5.03      In analyzing the justification for project investments, efficiency
prices of investments and benefits have been used.  In order to convert
market prices to efficiency prices, conversion factors have been applied
to domestic prices to remove the effects of distortions, mostly tariffs,
and labor has been shadow-priced to obtain its opportunity cost or mar-
ginal product, rather than the actual wages paid; the latter may be
higher for various reasons, including pressure from labor unions. On
the basis of the quantifiable benefits, principally reduced transport
costs, the proposed investments can be expected to yield an overall eco-
nomic return of about 23%. Detailed information on the project roads and
the economic analysis for their improvement are presented in Annex 2.
B.   Construction of the Mesurado River Bridge and Improvement of UN Drive
5.04      UN Drive and the Bridge together form the principal urban artery
for Monrovia proper, and also the terminal link for the most important primary
roads feeding into Monrovia port. Traffic on these routes is a mix of large
trucks carrying export and import products to and from the port; distribution
vans shuttling between the port's industrial/commercial zone and the city of
Monrovia; and mini-buses, taxis, and private cars.  The resulting high traffic
levels average 24,000 vpd on the bridge, about 17,000 vpd on Lower and Middle
UN Drive, and some 4,500 vpd on Upper UN Drive. Although only about 30% of
total traffic from the congested Lower UN Drive and the bridge goes into the
port area, the persistent traffic jams prevent efficient port clearance, and
also have other detrimental effects on the rest of the urban traffic.  The
problem was recognized as far back as 1968 by a Bank mission appraising the
Monrovia port project, and the improvements now recommended are based on the
findings of a feasibility study financed under that project.
5.05      After considering various ways of improving transport along the
UN Drive-Bridge axis, consultants recommended construction of an additional
two-lane bridge and improvement of UN Drive. Other recommendations include
(i) reorganization of Monrovia's passenger transport system to increase bus
usage, and (ii) introduction of better traffic engineering controls and
stricter enforcement of parking regulations. The impact of these administra-
tive and traffic engineering controls could be a reduction of vpd levels on
the Bridge and Lower UN Drive from 31,460 to 26,730 by 1978 (Annex 2), which
corresponds to about a 24% reduction in the number of car and taxi trips, and
a 15% increase in the practical capacity of the existing bridge and its approa-
ches. The proposed urban study of Monrovia is partly aimed at investigating
in detail appropriate ways of introducing these controls. In the analysis of
the justification of the new bridge and improvements to UN Drive, the reduc-
tion in congestion costs has been taken into consideration and the proposed
infrastructural works evaluated as the additional action required after all
other feasible actions have been taken.



- 23 -
5.06      The main quantifiable benefits from construction of the new
Mesurado River Bridge will include: (i) distance savings for some vehicles
using the existing bridge; (ii) elimination of waiting time on the bridge
and its approaches for present and projected traffic; (iii) elimination
of acceleration and deceleration costs; (iv) relief of congestion to
downtown traffic, which while not using the existing bridge, is never-
theless affected by the heavy traffic situation; and (v) relief of con-
gestion on Lower UN Drive which will in turn allow efficient clearance of
the port area. The numerical values assigned to the above benefits are
presented in Annex 2.
5.07      Construction of approaches for the new bridge will necessitate
relocation of some 2,500 inhabitants of the area. Alternative housing
must therefore be provided, at an estimated cost of some US$1.2 million.
This has been taken into consideration in he economic analysis.
5.08      On the basis of the above assumptions, construction of the new
Mesurado River Bridge is estimated to yield an economic return of slightly
more than 16% over its expected 30-year economic life, and a first-year
return of about 9.4%. A sensitivity analysis was carried out testing the
expected returns on the alternative assumptions of increased bridge costs
and reduced benefits (Table 11). The analysis indicates that construction
of the new bridge would still be economically justified.
5.09      The proposed improvement of UN Drive will result in various types
of benefits including: (i) reduced vehicle operating costs and reduced
maintenance costs due to the improved drainage system; (ii) reduction in
vehicle waiting time; (iii) elimination of acceleration and deceleration
costs; and (iv) better clearance of the port area. The estimates used are
detailed in Annex 2. On the basis of the quantifiable benefits under.
(i), (ii) and (iii) above (item (iv) being significant but difficult to
quantify), improvement of UN Drive is expected to yield an overall economic
return of about 36% over the expected 20-year economic life of the road.
The proposed investments on individual sections yield returns estimated
at 19.5% for Lower UN Drive, over 50% for Middle UN drive, and about 24%
for Upper UN Drive. The sensitivity of the above returns to reasonable
variations in costs and benefits are shown in Table 11. The results
indicate that the proposed improvement works would remain justified.
C.   Improvement of the Totota-Ganta Road
5.10      This road is a section of Monrovia-Ganta, the backbone of the
country's road network. It provides the link from Monrovia, the capital
city and principal port, to regions in the northwest and southeast, and
also connects with the Liberia-Sierra Leone road in the west, and with
the Ganta-Harper road in the east; in addition, it is the only direct
route to Guinea. The chief traffic-generating activites in the areas
most directly served by the road are cash crop cultivation by peasant
farmers, rubber production both by foreign companies and Liberian farmers,
and exploitation of timber resources; also, planned cooperative develop-
ments will soon be making significant contributions to production in the



- 24 -
area. These products will all require reliable transport to reach their
markets.
5.11      Present traffic on the road averages about 750 vpd on the section
Totota-Gbarnga, and about 460 vpd on Gbarnga-Ganta; these traffic levels
are expected to increase by about 6% p.a. through 1985, and by about 5%
p.a. thereafter. Increases in agricultural and other economic activity
attributable to road improvement will generate by 1980 an additional 70 vpd
on the Totota-Gbarnga section, and about 30 vpd on the Gbarnga-Ganta road.
5.12      In analyzing the justification for the proposed road construction,
the following quantifiable benefits have been taken into consideration: (i)
savings in vehicle operating costs; and (ii) savings in road maintenance
costs. On the basis of these cost savings and the 20-year expected economic
l:fe of the road, construction of the sections Totota-Gbarnga and Gbarnga-
Ganta are estimated to yield economic returns of 43% and 33% respectively;
the return for the entire road is about 38%, with a first-year return of
26%. The sensitivity analysis in Table 11 shows that even under the worst
alternative assumptions on construction costs and expected benefits, improve-
ment of the Totota-Ganta road remains economically justified.
D.   Construction of Feeder Roads
5.13      The feeder roads proposed for construction are included in he
Lofa County Agricultural Development Project recently approved by the Board
(Credit 577-LBR, US$6 million), and have already been justified in that project.
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During Loan negotiations with the Government, the following items
were discussed and agreed:
(i) the arrangement for staffing assignments in MPW's Planning
Division, and a schedule for its implementation (paras.
2.09 and 4.17);
(ii) allocation of adequate local funds in the 1975 through 1977
budgets to allow timely execution of the maintenance program
(para. 3.21);
(iii) an outline of general terms of reference for the Planning
Division, as well as for the services of the Transport
Planner/Economist and the Civil Engineer to be attached
to the Division (paras. 4.15-4.17);
(iv) arrangements for Bank assistance in the preparation of
terms of reference for consulting services for the urban
planning study of Monrovia (para. 4.22);



- 25 -
(v) all consultants and technical assistance experts required
under the project will be selected in agreement with,
and under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
(para. 4.26);
(vi) construction of the Bridge, the UN Drive, and the Totota-
Ganta road will be carried out under unit price contracts
following international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines (para. 4.27);
(vii) supervision of construction of the entire road Totota-
Ganta (including the ADB-financed section) will be by
the same consultants (paras. 4.27 and 4.28);
(viii) all arrangements for execution of the feeder road program.
(paras. 4.29-4.32; and
(ix) the Government will provide all the local costs of the
project (para. 4.33).
6.02      Signing of the proposed ADB Loan Agreement by the Government and
the African Development Bank shall be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed Loan (para. 4.28).
6.03      The proposed project is suitable for a Loan of US$27.5 million to
the Government of Liberia. An appropriate Loan term would be 25 years
including 5 years of grace.
August 1975






Table 1
LIBERIA- 
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Five-Year Highway Maintenance and Development Program (1973-77)
Actual or Expected       --- Cost (Us$fooo)---
Source of
Project Item               FLancing              Local  Foreign  Total
A. Maintenance Program
1. Technical Assistance      IBRD                    245  1,125    1,370
2. Training Program          Germany              2,800  GRANT    n.a.
3. Equipment and Spare
Parts                     USAID                  450  4,400    4,850
4. Paved Road Rehabili-
tation                    IBRD                  --    --        _-
5. Workshops                 IBRD                    250    750    1,000
Subtotal A                                    3.745  6,275   10 020J
B. Primary Roads                          (Miles)
1. Port Access Roads and
Bridge                    IBRD        14       3,o60  8,740   11,800
2. Sierra Leone- Ilberia     ADB          6         .590  2,430    3,020
3. Totota-Ganta              IBRD        83        5,620 11,380   17,000
4. UN Drive- Mt. Coffee      IBRD        16          720  1,440    2,160
5. Tubman Bridge -
Bomi Hills                ADB         45       2,580  5,900    8,480
6. Kakata-Dubli Is. -
Totota                    Germany     38         --    GRANT     --
7. Ganta-Sanniquellie       N.C.         25         --     --       __
8. Ganta-Tapeta             N.C.        400         --     --       _
9. Tafuke-Kaloke            N.C.         40                --
Subtotal B                          667      12.n70 29.890   42,460
C. Secondary Roads
1. Sagleipie-Bahn_,          USAID       60          770  2,320    3,090
Sanniquellie
2. Plibo-Barclayville        USAID       45          370  2,045    2,415
3. Brewerville-Bella Yella  USAID       100)
4. Bella Yella-Zorzor        USAID       65)       1,115 .8,ooo    9,115
5. Buchanan-River Cess       USAID       30)
Subtotal C                          300        2,255 12,365   14,620
TOTAL A, B, and C                       899      18,570 482530   67,100
1/  Not including expected grant.
N.C.= Not committed.
Source: Ministry of Public Works, Planning Division, November 1974
June 1975.



Table 2
LIBERIA
THIRD HICI-NAY PROJECT
Development of the Highway Network
(miles)
1961      1964       1971      1974
A. PUBLIC ROADS
PRIMARY ROADS
Asphalt Surfacing           129        160       203        208
Laterite Surfacing          615        650       941        968
7m        Tl-O    1,144      1,17
SECONDARY ROADS
Laterite Surfacing          126        330       487        707
Dry-weather Roads           336        610     1 270      1 265
62-       -940     1,757
Subtotal A.     1,206      1,750      2,901     3,148
B. PRIVATE ROADS
Asphalt Surfacing            20         30        86        n/a
Laterite Surfacing          147        500     1,184      1,394
Subtotal B.       167        530     1,270      1,394
TOTAL           1,373      2,280     4,170      4 542
Source: Transportation Survey of Liberia, Brown Engineers 1963;
SAUTI Report 1971; MIW Planning Division 1974.
March 1975



Table 3
LIBERIA
THIRD HIGIMAY PPOJECT
Vehicle Registration
Passenger Cars   Taxis      Tirucks      Buses        TOTAL
1968         8,919       3,434       4,545       2,785       19,683
1969         9,880       3,853      44,908       2,998       21,639
1970         9,377       4,735       5,234       3,864       23,210
1971         8,996       4,103       5,454       2,521       21,074
1972        10,607       3,384       4,730       2,575       21,295
1973        10,769       3,507       3,589       4,924       22,789
Source: Ministry of Finance, Motor Vehicles Divisipn, December 1974.
June 1975.



Table 4
LIBERIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Govermeont E=enditures for Hi hays, 1970-74
(us$'ooo)
Recurrent Maintenance Operations
Total
Recurrent
Personnel        Operations         Total        Expenditures
1970          615                886            1,501             2,051
1971          875               689             1,564            2,607
1972          899                973            1,872            2,983
19731/        620                716            1,336             2,951
1974          708               880             1,588            3, 245
1/ Reduction in recurrent operatiors due to transfer of staff to GSA
Source:  Ministry of Public Works, Planning Division
November 1974
June 1975



Table 5
LTBERIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Revenues from Road User Charges
(US$1000)
"Taxes on  Import Duties
Fuel      & Spare Parts   Licensing       TOTAL
1970         1,777        5,44o          870           8,087
1971         2,057        5,243          781           8,081
1972         1,974        4,9o6          985           7,865
1973         1,578        5,045        1,684           8,307
197k         1,893        2,027        1,700           5,620_/
1/ January 1 - June 30, 1974
Source: Annual Budget Reports 1970-74, Ministry of Finance,
October 1974.
March 1975



LIBERIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Project Roads and Bridge
Upper                              Middle                               Lower                               "otota-                        Gharnga-
Design Element                  UN Drive                            UN Drive                            UN Drive                            Gbaroga                         Ganta Road
Width of Right of Way (ft)                                    220                                220                                  220                                 200                             200
Design Speed (mph)                                             60                                  60                                  6n                                  60O                             50
Minimum Stopping Sight Distance  (ft)                         475                                 475                                                                                                     3 4)5
Minimum Passing Sight Distance (ft)                         2.100                              2,100                                2,100                               2 100                          1 800
Minimum Radius Horizontal Curve (ft)                        1.150                              1.150                                1.150                               1.150                             750
Manimum Gradient (%)                                            4                                   44
Pavement width (ft)                                       2 x 11                              2 x 1l                               4 x 11                                  24                              24
No. of Lanes                                                    2                                   2                                    4 Lanes Divided                     2                              2
Shoulder/Parking Lane width (ft)                                6                                  11                                   11                                   3                              3
Crossfall:  Pavement  (%)                                       2                                   2                                    2                                   3                              3
Shoulders (Parking Lane) (% )                     i3                                                                       3                                  4                               4
Pavement Type: Base                                             7R Granular                         7' Granular                          751 Granular                        6" crushed stone               6"   hard pan laterite
Double
Surface                                        2' asphalt                         3" asphalt                           3"' asnhalt                         2" asphalt                           surface
concrete                           concrete                             concrete                            concrete                         treatament
Shoulder/Parking Lane Pavement Type                            2"   pavement on                     2" pavement on                       7"? grentilar                      6" Compacted hard pan              6" Compacted hard pan
7R Granular Base                   75 Granular Base                                  materinl                        material                          laterite
Pavement Design Wheel Load                                 18,000 lb equivalent               18,000 lb equivalent                 18,000 1b equivalent                18,000 1b eq--ivalen:          13,000 lb equivalent
,.I1 1tr-c ores ecual roadway  width and desiv,ued!
on the basis of AASHO H-15 Loading
lTe. l.cs,-rado River Brid,c
Brid :e "' pe                      Post - ensi-ned concrete g  der
Total length (ft)                   1.400                                                                                                                              5
No. of spans                        5
Traffic lanes - width  (ft)        2 x 12
Side Clearances - width (ft)   2 x 3
Pedestrian Walk widtl (Ft)    5S
Bridge Design Loading              AASHO, HS 20-44
Source: lIid, consultanta Stanley & Ove Arup.
June 1975.



LIBERIP                         Table 7
THIFRD HTGWIqY PROJECT
List of Equipment to be Proci2red for Feeder Road Unit
and Cost Estimate (
Unit Cost           Total Costs
Item                         Quantities           (US$)                 (US$)
Tractor-Dozer, D7                  1                110,000              110,000
liMotor Grader, 125 HP             1                 65o0o0               65,000
Front Loader, 80 HP                2                 43,000               86,ooo
Ccm,pactor, Vibrator
Self-Propelled         1                 25,000                25,000
DLip Truck, 6 m3                    5                25,000               125,000
Wlater Tanker, 9,000 1.            1                 4, 000               45,000
Pick Uz                            1                  9,500                9,500
,Iorkshop Trailer                  1                 45.,000              45,000
ToQ ,ed Fuel Tank, 1, 500 1        1                  4,, 000              4,000
Service Cer                        1                  6,000                6,000
Motor Pump, 50 m3/h                1                  2,500                2,500
Caravan, 2 Beds                    1                  5,000                5,000
Concrete Yixer, 250 1              1                  3,000                3,000
Total      531,000
Stock of Spare Parts (about 15 d p.a. of equipment costs -
included under operating costs in Table 8).
1/ Estimates are in prices at mid-1976, the expected date of equipment delivery.
Staff requirements for Feeder road unit
Position                                          Number
Team Leader                                         1
Accountants                                          2
Mechanics                                            3
Operators                                           6
Drivers                                             8
Iaborers                                           15
Source:  PWD and mission estimates
June 1975



Table 8
*   LIBERIA
THIRD HIGHWAY FROJECT
Estimated Annual Labor and Operating Costs for Feeder Road Unit
Item                                  Cost (US)                      Foreig  Component (
Local    Foreign     Total
Equipment repair, fuel,
lubricants, labor, super-
vision, miscellaneous        123,900   39,600    163,500                     24
Total for 3-year period
(rounded)     375,000  120,000    495,000                     24
Note:   In the event no provision is made under the UK Technical Assistance
Program for the Feeder Road Unit Team Leader, funds for the foreign
exchange component of his services are included in the above foreign
exchange element. Otherwise this foreign exchange may be applied to
the purchase of fuels and lubricants which are primarily foreign
currency expenditures although covered by the Borrower through local
procurement arrangements.
Source: MFW and mission estimates.
July 1975.



Table 9
LIBERIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                             Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter Ending                             at End of Quarter
(US'OOO)
1975/76
September 30, 1975
December 31, 1975                                     4 ,000
March 31, 1976                                        6,600
June 30, 1976                                         9,100
1976/77
September 30, 1976'                                  11,600
December 31, 1976                                    14 ,20n
March 31, 1977                                       14,700
June 30, 1977                                        19,400
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                   21,100
December 31, 1977                                    21,8v00
March 31., 1978                                      24,.500
June 30, 1978                                        26.,200
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                   26,500
December 31, 1978                                    26,900
March 31, 1979                                       27,300
June 30, 1979                                        27,500
Source: Mission estimates.
June 1975.



Table 10
LIBERIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Income Levels of Beneficiaries of Highway Projects
Approximate Share of Benefits
Approximate Yearly    UN Drive &        Totota-
Beneficiaries                  Per Capita Income       Bridge        Ganta Road
Car Owners                         $1,700              20%             15%
Taxi Owners                         4,000)
Taxi Drivers                           240)
Taxi Passengers: Rural                  70)             20%            30%
Urban                600)
Bus Owners. and Drivers                240)
Pick-Up and Bus Passengers: Rural       60)             55%            30%
Urban    140)
Truck Owners and Drivers                70v%
Consumers of Transported Goods          60)
National Average                      $260
1/ Average per capita income for drivers; data for owners not available.
Source: SAUTI and mission estimates.
March 1975.



LIBERIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis of Economic Returns
Best Estimate of                                                ER with
Economic Returns(ER)     ER with              ER with         Cost + 50% &
Project Item                                        Cost + 50%         Benefits - 15%  Benefits - 15%
___________         (%).                                               (~~~~~()  (7  2+3)
Totota-Gbarnga                43.3 (28.9)*              25.8                30.0        23.4
Gbarnga-Ganta                 33.2 (22.4)               21.6                25.0        19.6
Totota-Ganta                  38.1 (26.0)               24.0                27.8        21.8
Upper UN Drive                 24.3 (17.0)              31                  40          27
Middle UN Drive          over 50%  (43.1)          over 50%           over 50%    over 50%
Lower UN Drive                19.5 (11.0)               13.7                17.0        11.6
Entire length of UN Drive     36.0 (21.7)               25.2                31.9        24.6
Bridge w/South approach       16.1 (9.4)                13.3                12.6        10.0
UN Drive + Bridge             21.6 (16.0)               16.0                19.0        14.0
Bridge without Time Savings   12 2 (8.1)                14                  18          12
Global                        23.0 (17)                 14                  18          12
*  Figures in parentheses indicate estimated first year returns.
Source: Mission estimate
March 1975



Table 12
LIBERIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Selected Import Duties. Taxes,and Registration Fees
Import Duties on:
Vehicles:                          28% on value of vehicle
Lorry. Bases and
other Motor Vehicles:              23% on value of vehicle
Tires and Other
spare parts:                       30% up to April 1974, presently 40%
Taxe on:
Gasoline: Premium $.12/gallon; Regular $.12/Gallon
Gas Oil $.09/Gallon - Entry Fee $.02/gallon
Registration Fees:
Passenger Cars                     $3.00
Omnibuses                           5.00
Taxis                               5.00
Motorcycles, Trailers               2.00
Trucks (Transporting
Basiness)                 25.25
Other trucks                       15.25
Source: Ministry of Finance, MPW Planning Division,
November 1974
March 1975



Table 13
LIBERIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Total Consumption of Petroleum Products
('000 US gal)
Gasoline          Kerosene           Gas-Oil
1969              15,519             3,171            23,139
1970               n.a.               n.a.              n.a.
1971              19,987             3,695            51,181
1972              16,098             3,i44            14,481
1973              21,374             3,823            80,121
1974              18,891             3,616            30,5o
* January 1 - June 30 (estimate)
n.a. = not available.
Source:  Liberian Refinery  Company Reports; Ministry of
Finance, October 1974.
March 1975



LIBERIA
THTIRrI IIIGHSJAY PR1OJECT
(U.s. '000)
LENGTIH            TOTAL COSr               C'0'T PLR            1I 1IFl CP
Th{TI),TI, FX,yT                           (MILES)             (CNTNiACr)                MI LE               AWAID
I&Lc.LU3riLleld (Paved)                  27               $1l953,395               $72, 347                -l i -( '
2P  Univorsity Tahri-a -(Paved)              7.2                $  5414100
j(2 lIWidCi"ms                     (50 ft. each)                                 $75,153
CU.CONJ3A3i Y , IADS
1.  i;u2na
cobertsport (La-ferite)                  27.3             $  708,000               $25,935
2,) Z.audL U
Ziat G.ovn    (Laterite)                  33.2             $  722,986                21,909               3-2-70
!Uj) ADITITMflI'PANC(E  ThCLUDDING
0tUJ;IIl MJG ;,)J    1 MII  OPLRATION
Paved  Poads                                                Cost/lile
Width:  24 - 26 ft.                                   $1,500 - 2,000 (Estilmates)
Gravel Roads 
W4idth: 18 - 20 ft.                                    $  750 - 10OO  (Estimates)
_    LTUE   1 MIJ Division of Planning, Novenaber, 1974
Ehgiiieerirng Division of MPW



ANNEX 1
LIBERIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Eaerts to be attached to
Plamning Division of MPW
1. The Transport Planner/Economist will assist in:
(i) establishing road investment priorities, including those for
feeder roads;
(ii) execution of feasibility studies for construction of new roads
or improvement of existing ones;
(iii) establishing operating costs for representative types of vehicles
under various road conditions;
(iv) execution of a study on structure and level of road user charges;
(v) organizing and operating a statistical office within the Division
to assemble and interpret data on economic and traffic trends;
(vi) establishing a long-term investment plan for the highway sector,
and carrying out the yearly update of this plan;
(vii) establishing an operating manual for the Division, and updating it
periodically as necessary;
(viii) training Liberian personnel in all the above activities.
2. The Civil Engineer will assist the Transport Planner/Economist in execution
of all the tasks listed under items (ii) and (v) - (viii) above, and will also
be expected to assist in:
(i) establishing a systematic traffic counting system, including
manipulation and analysis of data;
(ii) reviewing, and if necessary, updating present road classifications;
(iii) reviewing existing traffic regulations, and formulating recommenda-
tions on desirable new legislation, particularly with regard to
vehicle axle-load limits;
(iv) reviewing existing design standards and construction practices for
various road categories, including feeder roads, and establishing
new ones.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
LIBERIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Details of Economic Analysis
Vehicle Operating Costs
(/veh.mi.) 
Upper     Middle      Lower
Paved Road     Totota-Ganta        UN Dr.    UN Dr.      UN Dr.
(Good       (Unengineered         (Poor     (Poor       (Poor
Type of Vehicle         Condition)      Gravel)             Paved)    Paved)      Paved)
Cars                       11.42         21.81               14.12    15.45       13.44
Taxis                       9.34         17.52               11.47    12.52       10.93
Pick-ups, Buses            20.05         44.72               25.77    28.64       24.35
Stake & Van Trucks         25.91         68.31               35-03    39.59       32.76
3-Axle Trucks              36.78         96.14               49.95    56.53       46.66
Traffic Composition (1975)
Lower UN Dr.
Upper &     & Mesurado
Totota-        Gbarnga-       Totota-         Middle Dr. Bridge
Gbarnga (Nor-  Ganta (Nor-   Ganta (Gene-    (Normal       (Normal
Type of Vehicle    mal Traffic)   mal Traffic)  rated Traffic)   Traffic)    Traffic)
Cars                    17             14              10            27            32
Taxis                   38             37              20            29            31
Pick-ups, Buses         30             29              25            35            28
Stake & Van Trucks      10             16              30             8             8
3-Axle Trucks            5              4              15             1             1
100           100             100           100           100



ANNEX 2
Page 2
I. Mesurado River Bridge and Approaches
Cost Inputs: (without Price Contingencies)
Financial Cost:
(i)   Construction:  Bridge + Approaches $6,650,0oo
(ii) Relocation cost: $1,200,000 physical, $136,000 p.a.
transport costs for 3 years.
Total $8,258,000, of which $1,962,000 in FT 1976, $3,926,000
in FY 1977, and $1,962,000 in FY 1978, $136,000 each in 1979,
1980, and 1981.
Incremental Economic Cost:  Total $7,105,000, of which $1,700,000
in FY 1976, $3,399,600 in FY 1977, and $1,700,000 in FY 1978,
$102,000 each in 1979 - 1981.
The economic costs are adjusted for efficiency prices: local
costs are multiplied by a conversion factor of 0.75 and foreign
by 0.99. Labor has been priced at -arket price less taxes.
Benefit Inputs:
- Traffic
Without reorganization of Passenger transport - 24,000 vpd
in 1974, 31,460 in 1978, and projected to grow at 7% p.a. over
the next decade.
With improvement in Passenger transport system - 24,000 vpd
in 1974, 26,730 in 1978 and growing at 4% over the next decade.
- Vehicle Miles Saved:  1979:  483, 700.
- Savings due to Distance Reduction in opening year, 1979: $70,500
and estimated to grow at 4% p.a.
- Idling Time Saveds  35,123,900 vehicle - minutes in 1979 and
growing at an average of 11% p.a.
Cost Savings, due to elimination of idling time: $82,900 in 1979.
- Ng. of Acceleration and Deceleration saved: 31,800,000 in 1979
growing at 4%.
Cost Savings: $172,700 in 1979.
- Working Driverst Time Savings:  $128,100 in 1979 growing at 11% p.a.
Cost Savings to Non-Bridge Traffic:  $49,300 in 1979 and growing
at 4%_p.a,
Economic Return
- Total Benefits in opening year = $703,500 with Time Savings or $575,hoo
- FYB                              =  9.4%
- Economic Return over 30-year economic life is 16.1
- Economic Return without Time Savings is 12.2%
- FYB without Time Savings is 8.1%



ANNEX 2
Page 3
IIo United Nations Drive
A. Upper UN Drive:
Cost Inputs:
-  Financial Cost:  Total $872,000 of which $219,000 in
FY 1976, $434,ooo in FY 1977, and $219, 000 in FY 1978.
-  Economic Cost ;  Total $802, 000, of which $201, 000 in
FY 1976, and $400, 000 in FY 1977, and $201, 000 in FY 1978.
- Conversion factors per capital and labor inputs as for
bridge.
Benefit Inputs (Growth Rate of Benefits)
- Traffic
Nonnal Traffic: 4184 in 1975; 5203 in 1979 (5.6% p. a.)
There is no generated traffic, since the road improvements
are not intended to attract new industry and people to
Monrovia.
- Savings in Vehicle Operating Costs, 1979 based on veh/mi from
Table 9: $148,600.
Economic Return
- First Year Return: 17%
- Economic Return over ?0 year life = 24%
B. Middle UN Drive:
Cost Inputs
- Financial Cost: Total $2,207,000, of which $552,000 in
FY 1976,$1,103,000 in FY 1977 and $55?2o0oo in FY 1978.
- Economic Cost: Total $2,030,000, of which $509,000 in
FY 1976, $1,102,000 in FY 1977, and $509,000 in Fy 1978.
Benefit Inputs (Growth rate of Benefits)
- Traffic
Normal Traffic:  15,505 in 1975; 19,501 in 1979 (5.9% p. a.)
- Savings in Vehicle Operating Costs, 1979: $878,400.
Economic Return:
- First Year Return: 43%
- Economic Return over 20-year economic life is over 50%



ANNEX 2
Page 4
C. Lower UN Drive:
Cost Inputs:
- Financial Costs:  Total $4,160,000 of which $1,042,000 in
FY 1976, $2,076,000 in FY1977, and $1,042,000 in FY 1978.
- Economic Cost:  Total $3,822,000 of which $958,000 in
FY 1976, $1,906,000 in FY 1977, and $258,000 in FY 1978.
Benefit Inputs (Growth Rates of Benefits)
- Traffic
Normal Traffic: 15,963 in 1975; 19,850 in 1979 (5.6% p. a.)
Savings in Vehicle Operating Costs, 1979: $417,800.
- Drivers' -Time Savings, 1979:  $98,200 (11.5% p. a.)
This stream is a lower bound for savings, since congestion
will grow exponentially.
Economic Return:
- First Year Return:  11%
- Economic Return over 20-year economic life is 19.5%
D. UN Drive, Upper. Middle. and Lower
Cost Inputs:
- Financial Cost: Total $7,2 ,000 of which $1,812,000 in
FY 1976, $32615i3oo in FY 977, and $1,812,000 in FY 1978.
- Economic Cost:  Total $t,664,000  of which $1,672,000 in
FY 1976, $3,320,000 in FY 1977, and $1,672,000 in FY 1978.
Benefit Inputs:
- Savings in Vehicle Operating Costs, 1979: $1,444,800.
- Drivers' Time Savings, 1979: $196,400.
Economic Return:
- First Year Return: 21.7%
- Overall economic return is 36%.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
ILT. Totota-Ganta Rozd
A. Totota-Gbarnga (42 miles)
Cost Inputs (Excluding Price Contingencies)
- Financial Cost = Total $13,119,000 of which $3,064,000 in FY1976,
$5,2 1,000 in FY1977, and $4,794,000 in FY1978.
- Economic Cost = Total $11,452,000 of which $2,670,000 in FY 1976.
$4,594,oo0 in FY1977, and $4hl80,oo0 in FY1978.
The -economic costs are adjusted for efficiency prices: labor is shadow
priced at one-half the wage rate, local costs are multiplied by a con-
version factor of 0.75 and foreign cost by 0.99.
Benefit Inputs (Growth Rate of Benefits after 1978 in Parentheses)
The "without" case assumes that the existing road can be maintained
at a standard which does not lead to rising operating or time costs;
this tends to understate the benefits.
Benefits are given exclusive of taxes.
- Traffic
Normal Traffic:  755 in 1975; 958 in 1979 (5.5% p.a.)
Generated Traffic: 70 in 1985 (U% p.a.)
The traffic projection used is a conservative one; traffic will grow
at a faster rate of 6.9% p. a. if a number of planned enterprises mate-
rialize.
Savings in Vehicle Operating Costs, 1979:  $3,172,000
- Maintenance Cost Savings, 1979:  $183,500 (5.5%p.a.)
- Drivers' Time Savings, 1979: $13,800 (5.0% p.a.)
Economic Return: 43% (Excluding driver time savings)
The exclusion of time savings makes little difference.
First Year Return:  29%
B. Gbarnga-Ganta (41 miles)
Cost Inputs (Excluding Price Contingencies)
- Financial Cost:$10,185,000 of which $2,377,000 in FY1976, $4,o86,ooo
in FY1977, and$3,722,000  in FY1978.
- Economic Cost: $8,890X000  of which $2,072,000 in FY1976, $3,568,ooo
in FY1977, and $3,250, 000 in FY1978.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Benefit Inputs (Growith Rate of Benefits after 1978 in Parentheses)
- Traffic
Normal Traffic: 461 in 1975; 584 in 1979 (5.5%p.a.)
Generated Traffic: 30 in 1985 (h% p.a.)
- Savings in Vehicle Operating Costs, 1979: $1,885,200
- Maintenance Cost Savings, 1979:  $108,000 (5.5% p.a.)
- Driverst Time Savings, 1979: $8,300 (5% p.a.)
Economic Return: 33% (Excluding driver time savings)
First Year Return: 22.4%
C. Totota-Gbarnga-Ganta (83 miles)
Cost Inputs (Without Price Contingencies)
- Financial Cost:  Total $23,30o4_,ooof whichW$5,i450,000 in FY1976.
$9,355,000 in FY1977, and $8%519,000 in FY 1978.
- Economic Cost:  Total $20,360,000 of which $4l,762,000 in FY1976,
$8,174,000 in FY1977, and $7,424,000 in FY 1978.
Benefit Inputs
- Savings in Vehicle Operating Costs, 1979: $5,057,200
- Maintenance Cost Savings, 1979: $291, 500
- Driverst Time Savings, 1979:  $22,100
Economic Retux'n: 38% (Excluding driver time savings)
- First Year Return = 26%.






IBRD 10292R2
\l'          RP                                         l.-                                     M>ROCCO,       INTN5LA A>b_ |~~~~~~~~~~-  VI~ 
ALGERIA    t  R Y A    ARAF I
L  I BE  RIA SAI                                                                                                   I R /                     I EGYPT
THIRD FHGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                        A            JtGER/f
MAIN ROAD NETWORK                                                                                                           JN,- QXQ4oAGRRIAI/
EOAIJ) } I AFRI5AELrK
ATLANTIC OCEAN    f G       RON
SsIhO4                   x*                                                    Tf;57D,7  FEDEDgR ROAD PROJEICT AREA
CO7NSTRECIOOO  UNDER PROPOSED PROJEST
...PREINVEUTMENUST AVDNES UNDER PIROPOSED) PROJECT
/    ~/t/~4   yA/~C  ,~     CORSTRUCTION UNAER PREVIOUS PROJECT
/ d1/o6           4/                                 OREINVESTMENT  STUDIES ENDER PREVIOUS PROJECT
'I'    FJtZ   / g         'C/,,4/'    ff4oV;7                  -         FPEED HIGHCAYS
0            /1      /x/y/~~~~~~~~t~~' ~ALL WEATUER ROADS
~~    6<  yw&''~~~', ~~$Y~~~'%$/,   i//-------DRY WEATHER RADNS
) f X ........ .... ,ROAD5 DJNDER CONSTRUCTION
/   (>/<c  Ni        ,                             / OFA                        INTERNAITONAL AIRPORTS
*<--4A<e   t   [   .-            ' Xo                                4 <ffi  O   +    AIRSTRPIS
Mbolomo   X                              1 /ARBUES
COUNTY    ii /$o                   ----CUNYAU1UUE
%   +   /                       ,  C O U N T y  .Xt7or                      _, =I'STE RNATIONAbL sorNDAR E s
N.                               7    Rellot/o X   /    SdbMboloX:opo                / I               J   VeLept     M
8\  Xt.}  g              0       ~       ~       ~~~~/ FoTEco,jrAnC| to                                                M
o   /MT            GRAND CAPE                                 x             XGb.k-e
Moa tEVA  eFfMMOUNT COUNTY  Oweon-o           KubocXO   AoelloYdl:                     \               /         A1nq
Rodo X                                                                                               KCK |o"
'I                        / tobpo.oco                            Eolooong_ .. .S I
0              _                                     SsboooJTRba GRAN    7    So<iepA 
/CUN                           CONT             CONT                -\pGADGDHCUT 
0~~~
m..b.                                  b~~~~. ;b.lX  BeCS 0                                 \N/\G
5 ... Y,.p x ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~       ~       ~      ~ ~ ~ -I,
N TS4  RAD                         0CUNY                       )GAN   GDH   OUT
scE 1,' \a~~~~~~>                                                                                       Cf
p7NOOCRS             J/epO "/ N                                                               f
"9'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~bi J6 BpKoX/hl                         NOC  N T           r/r Y                     D,alon ', o owb
1'        r       T.-         J         R    w
TY~~~~~ GI.;      $                                              COUNT              PbA
2  ROoT C-.R+
~~~~~~0 ~ ~ ~ ~
7ke f xedav2 shovz +w Xft teXP t67 n                                                                     Jedep%XET7E
R/vf tS hr* x>d fttdSvv4 tAIMdIAEDES
COUNTY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MRC GRNDGEEHCONT
'b K.bl, ~ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      So 
R- CAJ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~                                  Ib   ~O         Nyc
SINO   COUNTY      Ro,clp TI..COUNT
b0 PIbo
<ORk
G-od CRS-          oro
TePAAorr holb&O do<o A' loll                                                                                     KILOMAETERS
<rmw  EODNOOCO VT -YOPIO  by ItA                                                                                 PG  
RX,ld 8-4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d fl-fJVWn ~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILESU
vr                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH 1gEI






IBRD 10291R1
10 o3045"                                                                           zS  I E R R A   G U I N           E A   MARCH 1975
'  L E 0 N E  
L  I B  E  R  I A                                                     serN          /        \   rt,|,   I V O R Y
MONROVIA                                                                                                  I \   r
Port Access Roads and Mount Coffee Dam Road                                                              _           _         _          _1
i0 3b '  30"
CONSTRUCTION UNDER
PROPOSED PROJECT
.....DETAILED ENGINEERING UNDER
.   To Bomi Hills                        . - '  l         SPROPOSED PROJECT
PROJ.C             '                                                                           CO-'-INSTwRAUCTCION UNDER SECOND
. - .J . .............. ... . 60> < \ ~~~~SWAMPY AREA
New                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6'30'
\ ! Xf <77    ew\Georgira                                  <             
i   :       rJ~~~~~ERPASS'    ,..                             1       Grzne vle         
Monrovia     &                                                                                                                              j
ag  /f t  ! '   >            0       0   LlVhER~~~~~~~~~~IA N
EXISTING BRIDGE    '00 2Y ''6
PROJECT MITS                                                                                                                        0                2
PROPOSED                                                                                                            Kilormeters
Ma bo       ~       Po,,o_                                                                                                                  _   _    _   _    _
point                             E--,  '                                                                                                          Miles
R.
A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T~oo000f l 0hi,a pd0f ic --  J
\    .             ~~~~~~~~im,ply tttdoro 00000 or totptantt hy the
L                        lO~~~~~~~0 3q0 45"                                                                 Q0 31  30"              Wo,Id B:noktd i0ooffii0Ioos



