CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1560 ME
Project Agreement
(Third Industrial Equipment
Fund Project - FONEI)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO DE MEXICO, S.A.
Dated September 27, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1560 ME
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 27, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and BANCO DE MEXICO, S.A. (hereinafter called the Trustee).
WHEREAS by a trust agreement between the Guarantor and the
Trustee, dated October 29, 1971, the Guarantor has entrusted a
special fund (Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial) to the Trustee for
the purpose of promoting and financing the development of indus-
trial and service enterprises designed to increase exports and/or
efficiently replace imports;
WHEREAS the Guarantor, the Borrower and the Trustee have
requested the Bank to assist in financing such development;
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred million dollars ($100,000,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
the Trustee agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the Trustee, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Trustee shall by means of FONEI carry
out the Project described in the Schedule to this Agreement with


﻿- 2 -
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound indus-
trial, administrative and financial policies and practices
and in accordance with the Operating Regulations, and shall, at
all times, make available, promptly as needed, such funds and
other resources as shall be required to meet FONEI's operating
expenses.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, and without
limitation to the obligations of the Trustee under the preceding
paragraph, the Trustee shall:
(i) make or cause to be made available to FONEI for
purposes of the Project at least $45,000,000
equivalent for a period of not less than 17 years
from the date of this Agreement and on such terms
and conditions and at such times as shall be
required for the carrying out of the Project in
accordance with the preceding paragraph; and
(ii) inform the Bank of the terms and conditions other
than the amortization period on which such funds
have been made available to FONEI, and afford the
Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon.
(c) The Trustee shall consult with the Bank in making
any change in the Operating Regulations.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) The Trustee shall, out of FONEI's resources, make
FONEI Loans to Participating Intermediaries which shall have made
sub-loans to Investment Enterprises for Investment Projects in
accordance with the Operating Regulations.
(b) Interest on sub-loans shall be payable in accordance
with a variable rate to be adjusted, if necessary, every six
months so as to make it equal to the prevailing interest rate
on the month before that in which the adjustment is made plus two
percentage points.
(c) The agreements providing for FONEI Loans shall provide
that if sub-loans or any part thereof shall be repaid to Parti-
cipating Intermediaries in advance of maturity, or if they shall
be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for value
by the Participating Intermediaries, the Participating Interme-
diaries shall repay promptly to the Trustee, the amounts of


﻿- 3 -
the FONEI Loans corresponding to the sub-loans or parts thereof
so repaid in advance or disposed of for value.
(d) The Trustee ahall inform the Bank of any substantial
change in the repayment provisions of any FONEI Loan.
(e) For the purposes of this Section, "prevailing interest
rate" means an annual interest rate equal to the average cost
of borrowed funds to the financieras operating in Mexico, as
calculated monthly by the Trustee, rounded to the nearest quarter
of one percentage point.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than
a free-limit sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Trustee
shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to
the Bank, together with a description of the Investment Enterprise
and an appraisal of the Investment Project (including a descrip-
tion of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan) and the proposed terms and conditions of the
sub-loan, and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) Each request by the Trustee for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan) and the terms and conditions of such free-limiZ sub-
loan, and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(c)   Except as the Bank and the Trustee shall otherwise agree,
the applications and requests to be furnished to the Bank pursuant
to paragraph (a) hereof shall be submitted to the Bank before
June 30, 1980.
Section 2.04. (a) The Trustee undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, all sub-loans will be made on terms
whereby the Participating Intermediary shall obtain, by written
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Trustee and the Participating Intermediary including the right of
the Participating Intermediary to: (i) require the Investment
Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound tech-
nical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate


﻿-4-
records; (ii) require that (A) the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loan shall be pur-
chased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other
relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance faci-
lities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services,
of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering
them and (B) such goods and services shall be used exclusively
in the carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect,
by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank and the
Trustee if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Proj-
ect, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and docu-
ments; (iv) require that the Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance,
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent
with sound business practice; and that such insurance cover
marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to the place of use or installation, and that any
indemnity thereunder be made payable in a cil-rency freely usable
by the Investment Enterprise to replace or Lepair such goods; (v)
obtain all such information as the Trustee or the Participating
Intermediary shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condition
of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or terminate
the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the pro-
ceeds of the sub-loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise
to perform any of its obligations under its contract with the
Participating Intermediary.
(b) The Trustee shall cause each Participating Intermediary
to exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project
in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank
and the Trustee, (ii) comply with its obligations in respect of
the corresponding FONEI Loan, and (iii) achieve the purposes of
the Project.
Sectiun 2.05. (a) The Trustee shall furnish, or cause to
be furnished to the Bank, all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the FONEI Loans,
the sub-loans, the Investment Enterprises, and the Investment
Projects.


﻿- 5 -
(b) The Trustee: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of the Project to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and (ii) shall furnish
to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than one year after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Trustee
and the Bank, the Trustee shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report on the execution and operation of the Project and its
cost and benefits, and on the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan.
Section 2.06. (a) The Trustee shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agree-
ment and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) The Trustee shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by the Trustee of its obligations under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Trustee shall operate FONEI in accordance
with sound financial, industrial and administrative policies
and practices, under the supervision of experienced and competent
management.
Section 3.02. The Trustee shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition
of FONEI and shall cause the Participating Intermediaries to
maintain such records for purposes of the Investment Projects
financed by them.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. The Trustee shall: (a) have an annual audit
satisfactory to the Bank made of the accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) of FONEI for each fiscal year, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent and qualified auditors appointed by the Guarantor;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (i)
certified copies of such financial statements for such year as so
audited and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of FONEI and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date;
Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of the Trustee thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall


﻿- 7 -
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Trustee:
Banco de M6xico, S.A.
5 de Mayo No. 2
M6xico 1, D.F. Mexico
Cable address:
BANXICO
M6xico 1, D.F. M6xico
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the Trustee may be taken or executed
by its Director General or such other person or persons as he
shall designate in writing, and the Trustee shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 8 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Nicolas Ardito-Barletta
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO DE MEXICO, S.A.
(as Trustee for Fondo de
Equipamiento Industrial)
By /s/ G. Romero Kolbeck
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project consists of a lending program to finance fixed
assets and feasibility studies for enterprises in Mexico to
manufacture industrial goods and provide services for export or
for efficiently substituting imports.


