Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  43450 
Operation Name 
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT III 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General education sector (20%); Health (20%); Law and justice 
(20%); Central government administration (20%); Other social 
services (20%) 
Project ID 
P100807 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION 
Date PID Prepared 
February 6, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 29
th
,
2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 27, 2007 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Cape Verde, despite its small size (population 472,000) and remote archipelago formation, continues to 
post strong gains in social and economic advancement.
 
Cape Verde’s growth performance since the late 
80s has raised it to the ranks of lower middle income countries, with a GNI per capita of US$ 2,040 in 
2005.  Recent economic growth of around 2.5 percent per capita has been sustained through public and 
private investment based on high levels of donor support, strong private capital flows and remittances.  
Thanks to this growth, poverty has declined by one-fourth over the last decade, while the human 
development index has increased from 0.63 in 1990 to 0.72 in 2003.  Adult literacy rates are high 
(approximately 76 percent in 2002) and life expectancy at birth (69) is the third highest in Africa.  
Political openness has accompanied this economic and social progress.  Since the adoption of a multi-
party system in 1991, there have been three national elections and two orderly changes in government.  
A
free press and media further support the building of an open society.  The last presidential and 
legislative elections took place in early 2006. 
As a small, open economy, Cape Verde’s vulnerability to external shocks is high.
 
The country relies 
heavily on remittances and foreign aid.  This foreign assistance poses a risk of distortions in public 
administration if it is not properly channeled through government systems (or at least harmonized with 
them).  Unemployment remains high even though most of it is short-lived, and it is a main determinant 
of poverty.  Income inequality has risen and is generally worse than in countries of comparable income 
levels, creating a potential drag on growth and threatening social cohesion.  Geographical dispersion 
drives internal inequities and raises the cost of services. As rural populations flee entrenched poverty, 
urbanization is causing increasing social ills and puts pressure on basic services.
 
Overall, the capacity of 
the environment to support large-scale expansion in tourism, industry and construction may be at risk if 
not adequately managed. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed Third Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-3) to Cape Verde supports the 
implementation of the Government’s Poverty Reduction Strategy, as presented in the Growth and 
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (GPRSP).  PRSC-3 is the third and last in a series of annual single-
Page  2
tranche operations and supports
 a
reform program that is at the core of IDA’s Country Assistance 
Strategy (CAS).  
The proposed operation would continue to engage the Bank in policy and technical dialogue in three of 
the five pillars of the GPRSP, based on the division of labor with other IDA and donor projects and 
comparative advantage of this lending instrument: 
(a) promote good governance –especially effectiveness and equity– through reforms in public 
expenditure management, civil service, the judiciary and decentralization;  
(b) develop human capital, with a focus on health and education; and 
(c) strengthen the effectiveness and sustainability of the social protection system. 
 
Following the approach of the two previous PRSCs, this third operation is prepared in close coordination 
with a growing number of budget support partners: the Dutch Cooperation (DC), The European Union 
(EU), the African Develoopment Bank (AfdB), Austria, and Spain, following a Memorandum of 
Understanding signed with the Government.   
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The Third Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-3) will continue to support the implementation of 
Cape Verde’s Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRSP).  This one-tranche operation would be 
the third of a planned series of three annual PRSCs.  The financial support provided through the Third 
PRSC will further narrow the gap between the cost of implementing key elements of the GPRSP and 
resources available from Government’s own domestic revenues and other donor support.  A policy 
dialogue and results-based framework under PRSC-3 will focus on the following pillars of the GPRSP:  
(i) promote good governance; (ii) develop human capital in the areas of education and health; and (iii) 
improve the effectiveness and sustainability of the social protection system. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
PRSC 3 falls under the DPL OP BP 8.60, and as for PRSC 1 and 2, no environmental assessment is 
required.  Due diligence and pro-activity on environment policies have been carried out in collaboration 
with the Dutch cooperation, Austria and Spain which target their budget support towards environmental 
issues.  
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
10 
 Total 
10 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Manuela Francisco 
Title: Country Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-8209 
Email: 
mfrancisco@worldbank.org
Contact: Helene Grandvoinnet 
Title: Sr. Public Sector Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-6764 
Page  3
Email: 
hgrandvoinnet@worldbank.org
Contact: Maurizia Tovo 
Title: Sr Social Protection Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-7579 
Email: 
Mtovo@worldbank.org
