Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:  A
B2864
 
Operation Name 
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT III 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General education sector (20%); Health (20%); Law and justice 
(20%); Central government administration (20%); Other social 
services (20%) 
Project ID 
P100807 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION 
Date PID Prepared 
February 6, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 29
th
,
2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 27, 2007 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
Cape Verde, despite its small size (population 472,000) and remote archipelago formation, continues to 
post strong gains in social and economic advancement.
 
Cape Verde’s growth performance since the late 
80s has raised it to the ranks of lower middle income countries, with a GNI per capita of US$ 2,040 in 
2005.  Recent economic growth of around 2.5 percent per capita has been sustained through public and 
private investment based on high levels of donor support, strong private capital flows and remittances.  
Thanks to this growth, poverty has declined by one-fourth over the last decade, while the human 
development index has increased from 0.63 in 1990 to 0.72 in 2003.  Adult literacy rates are high 
(approximately 76 percent in 2002) and life expectancy at birth (69) is the third highest in Africa.  
Political openness has accompanied this economic and social progress.  Since the adoption of a multi-
party system in 1991, there have been three national elections and two orderly changes in government.  
A
free press and media further support the building of an open society.  The last presidential and 
legislative elections took place in early 2006. 
As a small, open economy, Cape Verde’s vulnerability to external shocks is high.
 
The country relies 
heavily on remittances and foreign aid.  This foreign assistance poses a risk of distortions in public 
administration if it is not properly channeled through government systems (or at least harmonized with 
them).  Unemployment remains high even though most of it is short-lived, and it is a main determinant 
of poverty.  Income inequality has risen and is generally worse than in countries of comparable income 
levels, creating a potential drag on growth and threatening social cohesion.  Geographical dispersion 
drives internal inequities and raises the cost of services. As rural populations flee entrenched poverty, 
urbanization is causing increasing social ills and puts pressure on basic services.
 
Overall, the capacity of 
the environment to support large-scale expansion in tourism, industry and construction may be at risk if 
not adequately managed. 
 
2.  Operation Objectives  
The proposed Third Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-3) to Cape Verde supports the 
implementation of the Government’s Poverty Reduction Strategy, as presented in the Growth and 
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (GPRSP).  PRSC-3 is the third and last in a series of annual single-
tranche operations and supports a reform program that is at the core of IDA’s Country Assistance 
Strategy (CAS).  
Page  2
The proposed operation would continue to engage the Bank in policy and technical dialogue in three of 
the five pillars of the GPRSP, based on the division of labor with other IDA and donor projects and 
comparative advantage of this lending instrument: 
 
(a) promote good governance 
–especially effectiveness and equity– through reforms in public expenditure 
management, civil service, the judiciary and decentralization;  
(b)  develop human capital, with a focus on health and education; and 
(c)  strengthen the effectiveness and sustainability of the social protection system. 
Following the approach of the two previous PRSCs, this third operation is prepared in close coordination 
with a growing number of budget support partners: the Dutch Cooperation (DC), The European Union 
(EU), the African Development Bank (AfDB), Austria, and Spain, following a Memorandum of 
Understanding signed with the Government.   
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The PRSC series is central to the CAS, accounting for about 60 percent of proposed new IDA lending 
over four years (the share of the PRSC is to remain constant in the base case or high case scenario, as 
PRSC lending would increase in a high case scenario).  This emphasis on programmatic lending is 
consistent with Cape Verde’s performance in implementing the previous CAS, its level of institutional, 
economic and political development, its strong and sustained performance in recent years, and the 
recommendations of core diagnostic work (PER, CFAA, CPAR).  The CAS deems the PRSC to be the 
preferred lending instrument to (a) provide predictable resource flows, particularly important given Cape 
Verde’s reliance on donor financing; (b) strengthen public administration and public expenditure 
management systems, with spill-over benefits to non-IDA resources; and (c) harmonize donors and 
reduce the potential distortions and transaction costs of external assistance. IDA’s assistance strategy is 
also in line with the GPRSP priorities. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
10 
 Total 
10 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The PRSC is overseen by the country GPRSP Steering Committee. Under the umbrella of the Ministry 
of Finance and Public Administration, all ministries involved in the three GPRSP pillars supported by 
the PRSC are involved in PRSC design, implementation and monitoring (i.e., State Secretariat for Public 
Administration, Justice, Education, Health, Labor and Solidarity). Since the preparation of PRSC-1, the 
Bank team has worked in close collaboration with Government 
and budget support partners to ensure a high 
level of accountability for the success of the PRSC series.   The move to budget support has been catalytic in 
Page  3
harmonizing aid in Cape Verde.  The Budget Support Group now counts six participants besides the Government.  
Budget support donors have signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Government detailing their 
commitment to aid coordination: i) a joint matrix highlighting main policy and result indicators supported by 
budget support, 2) reviews missions 
–
twice a year- conducted jointly, and iii) the preparation and discussion of 
joint Aide Memoires
 
6.   Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits 
In terms of benefits, the value added of the PRSC lies in both the nature of the instrument and the results 
that are expected: (i) improved functioning of national budget systems; (ii) reduced transaction costs and 
distortions due to international assistance; (iii) better linkages between sectors and cross-cutting issues; 
(iv) improved service delivery for the poor; and (v) improved well-being of the population.   
 
The main risks associated with PRSC-3 are: (i) limited number of technical staff in some ministries; (ii) 
decline in external concessional support at faster pace than expected, (iii) fiscal risks (including 
accumulation of contingent liabilities and mandatory expenditure programs that could cause fiscal 
slippages and stall implementation of the more sensitive policy reforms, and possibly delays in general 
Government’s strategy implementation, and (iv) sustainability if there is no PRSC 4.  
 
6.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Given the overall thrust of the PRSC series, no negative impacts on vulnerable groups are envisaged.  
To the contrary, all the measures considered will result either in improved overall well-being because of 
better governance and more efficient and equitable government services, or in specific gains for the 
poorest and most vulnerable members of society because of efforts to reach those with difficult access to 
basic services, including social protection and safety nets. In this sense, rural dwellers, and in particular 
those living in the most remote areas, stand to benefit disproportionately from the PRSC series, as they 
have been traditionally those with the most difficult access to public services.  
Climatic vulnerability, erratic rainfall, limited fresh water supplies, and reliance on tourism as an engine 
of development put sustainable use of resources and protection of the environment as central to poverty 
reduction.  The Government, with support from the Netherlands cooperation and UNDP, has developed 
a
National Environmental Plan (PANA, 2004-14) that identifies policies, investments and result 
indicators to promote the rational use of natural resources and the sustainable management of economic 
activities.  The Plan identifies three main environmental issues that match the MDGs in the areas of 
water supply, sanitation, and marine and terrestrial biodiversity.   
Within the fourth GPRSP pillar, “Develop basic infrastructure, promote rational land use and safeguard 
the environment”, the Government reiterates its commitment to PANA implementation.  The 
Government of the Netherlands is currently providing budget support to the environmental sector, aimed 
at financing national structures and policies as well as municipal environmental action plans.  Critical 
prior actions and a set of monitorable result indicators have been identified.  As a budget support 
partner, IDA is informed of on-going progress. 
7.  Contact point (co-TTLs) 
 
Contact: Manuela Francisco 
Title: Country Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-8209 
Email: 
mfrancisco@worldbank.org
Page  4
Contact: Helene Grandvoinnet 
Title: Sr. Public Sector Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-6764 
Email: 
hgrandvoinnet@worldbank.org
Contact: Maurizia Tovo 
Title: Sr Social Protection Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-7579 
Email: 
Mtovo@worldbank.org
8.  For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop)
 
