                                        Documentof
                                   The World Bank

                           FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                      ReportNo: 45672-NI




                  FOODPRICE CRISISRESPONSETRUST FUND

                           EMERGENCYPROJECTPAPER

                              ONA PROPOSEDGRANT

          UNDERTHE GLOBAL FOODCRISISRESPONSEPRO R A l v

                       INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$7.0MILLION

                                          TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OFNICARAGUA

                                          FORAN

                 EMERGENCYFOOD PRICERESPONSEPROJECT

                                      January 8,2009




HumanDevelopment SectorManagementUnit
CentralAmerica Country ManagementUnit
LatinAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegion

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective December 3,2008)

                     Currency Unit = Cordobas
                    19.75 Cordobas = US$l

                             FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1    - December31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANF      AmericanNicaraguan Foundation
BSG      Budget Support Group
CEPAL    Economic Commission for LatinAmerica andthe Caribbean (Comisidn
         Econdmicapara Ame'rica Latinay el Caribe)
COTESAN  Technical Commission for Food andNutritional Security (Comite'
         Te'cnicopara la SeguridadAlimentaria y Nutricional)
CPI      Consumer Price Index
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
DFID     UnitedKingdomDepartmentfor International Development
DGPSA    Directorate ofthe Agricultural Protection and Sanitary Agency
         (Direccidn General de Proteccidny SanidadAgropecuaria)
EC       European Commission
EFA-FTI  Education for All -Fast Track Initiative
EMP      Environmental ManagementPlan
ENABAS   Nicaraguan Basic Foods Company (EmpresaNicaragiiense de Alimentos
         Bdsicos)
EPP      Emergency Project Paper
FA0      Food andAgriculture Organization
FCR      Rural Credit Fund(Fondo de Cre'dito Rural)
FPCR     FoodPrice Crisis Response
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
IADB     Inter-American Development Bank
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA      International Development Association
IDR      Rural Development Institute(Instituto de Desarrollo Rural)
IFR      InterimFinancial Report
IMF      International Monetary Fund
INATEC   Technological NationalInstitute (Instituto Nacional Tecnoldgico)
INCAP    The Institute ofNutrition of Central America and Panama(Istituto de
         Nutricidn de CentroAme'ricay Panamd)
INTA     Nicaraguan Agricultural Technology Institute (Instituto Nicaraguense de
         TecnologiaAgropecuaria)
IPP      Indigenous PeoplesPlan


                                   ..
                                   11

                                                                       FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY


               ISA             International Standards on Auditing
               ISDS            Integrated Safeguards Datasheet
               M&E             Monitoring and Evaluation
               MAGFOR          MinistryofAgriculture andForestry (Ministerio Agropecuarioy
                               Forestal)
               MCC             The MillenniumChallenge Corporation
               MDG             MillenniumDevelopment Goal
               MIGA            MultilateralInvestmentGuarantee Agency
               MINED           MinistryofEducation (Ministerio de Educacidn)
               MOSAFC          Family and Community HealthModel (Modelo de SuludFamiliar y
                               Cornunitario)
               PAHO            PanAmerican HealthOrganization
               PTA Iand I1 Firstand SecondAgricultural Technology Project
               PAS             Agro-Seeds Program (ProgramaAgroalimentario de Semilla)
               PDO             Project Development Objectives
               PIC             Project InformationCenter
               PID             Project InformationDocument
               PMF             Pest Management Framework
               PINE            Integral School Nutrition Program (ProgramaIntegral de Nutricibn
                               Escolar)
               PNDH            National HumanDevelopment Plan (Plan Nacional de Desarrollo
                               Humano)
               PNSAN           National FoodandNutrition Security Policy (Politica Nacionalpara la
                               SeguridadAlimentaria y Nutricional)
               PRGF            Poverty Reduction GrantFacility
               PRORURAL Sectoral Program for Sustainable Productive Rural Development
                               (ProgramaSectorial de Desarrollo Rural Productivo Sostenible)
               PRSC            Poverty Reduction Support Credit
               PSTAC           Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit
               RAAS            South Atlantic Autonomous Region (Regih AutbnomaAtlhntico Sur)
               SIGFA           Secretariat for Coordination and Strategy of the Presidency
               SNBS            National Social Protection System(SistemaNacional de Bienestur Social)
               SOE             Statemento f Expenditure
               SPP             SimplifiedProcurement Plan
               SPAR            Agricultural Public Sector Agencies
               UNESCO          UnitedNationsEducational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
               WFP             World FoodProgramme

                                           Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                                        Country Director:      Laura Frigenti
                                          Sector Director:     Evangeline Javier
                                        Country Manager:       Joseph Owen
                                         Sector Manager:       Helena Ribe
                                      Task Team Leader:        Aline Coudouel




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                            Table of Contents



EMERGENCY OPERATION PROJECT PAPER DATA SHEET....................................                                                      v
A.  Introduction................................................................................................................. 1
B.  Emergency Challenge: Country Context, Recovery Strategy and Rationale for the
    ProposedBank Emergency Project.............................................................................                       2

C.  BankResponse:The Project.......................................................................................                    7
D. Appraisal of Project Activities..................................................................................                  10
E.  Implementation Arrangements and Financing Plan                             ..................................................     16

F.  Project Risks and Mitigating Measures                   ...................................................................     -18
G.  Terms and Conditions for Project Financing............................................................                           21



Annexes


Annex 1: Detailed Description of Project Components                           ...................................................    22
Annex 2: ResultsFramework and Monitoring.................................................................                            29
Annex 3: Summaryof Estimated Project Costs                        ...............................................................     33
Annex 4: Financial Management andDisbursementArrangements................................                                             34
Annex 5: ProcurementArrangements                 ..............................................................................      43
Annex 6: Implementation and Monitoring Arrangements ...............................................                                  48
Annex 7: Environmental and Social Safeguards.............................................................                           -56
Annex 8: Economic and Financial Analysis                   .....................................................................     63
Annex 9: Description of Financial Sector Issues and Compliance with OP 8.30                                               ............66
Annex 10: Project Preparation and Appraisal Team Members........................................                                     73
Annex 11: Documents inProject Files                .............................................................................     74
Annex 12: Statementof Loans and Credits......................................................................                        75
Annex 13: Country at Glance         ..........................................................................................      -76
Annex 14: Map IBRD33456            ............................................................................................      78




                                                       iv

             EMERGENCY OPERATION PROJECTPAPERDATA SHEET
                                               Nicaragua
                           EmergencyFoodPriceResponseProject
                                LatinAmerica andthe Caribbean

                                                                 Team Leader: Aline Coudouel(TTL) and
 Country Director:Laura Frigenti                                 Willem Janssen(co-TTL)
 Sector Manager/Director: Helena RibemvangelineJavier and        Sectors: SocialProtection,Agriculture
 EthelSennhauser/LauraTuck                                       Themes: Nutrition,GlobalFoodCrisis
 Lendinginstrument:Emergencyoperation                           IResponse
                                                                 Environmentalscreeningcategory:B
 ProjectID(s): P114441
IType of Operation:
 New Operation[ X 3 AdditionalFinancing[ ] ExistingFinancing(restructuring) [ ]
 Financingtype: Loan [ 3 Credit [ ] IDA Grant [ ] Other [ X 3
 Project ID(s): P114441                                   TotalAmount: US$7 million

 Proposedterms: Grant                                     Expectedimplementationperiod: January 2009-June
                                                          2010
 Expectedeffectivenessdate: January 2009                  Expectedrevisedclosingdate:June 30, 2010

 Borrower: GovernmentofNicaragua                          Responsibleagency:MAGFOR




 TotalIBFUYIDA




                                                                IndigenousPeople(OP 4.10)
 Additionalpolicytriggered                                      FinancialIntermediaryLending(OPBP 8.30)
                                                               I
 Significant, non-standardconditions, ifany: n/a




                                                     V


A. Introduction
1.        Nicaraguahas been severely hit by the increase in food prices. Food inflation
i s amongst the highest in the region, reaching an annual inflation rate of 28.8 percent in
October 2008 after reaching a peak of 34.2 percent inAugust 2008. The vast majority of
households in Nicaragua are net food consumers, even in rural areas. This, combined
with the large share of expenditures devoted to food in poor households' expenditures
suggests that the impact of the crisis on poverty will be dire. Recent estimates place the
decrease inreal consumption for poor urbanhouseholdsat around 16 percent.

2.        In response to the food crisis, the Government of Nicaragua has adopted a
two-prongedstrategy that to a large extent is consistent with the recommendations
issued by the Bank for countriesfacing a food prices crisis emergency. This strategy
combines actions to support the most vulnerable groups of the population and actions
aimed at expanding the supply of agricultural goods.

3.        The governmentis now seeking donor support to implementits strategy and
the Bank has articulated its response to this request around two operations. The
first operation, described in this Emergency Project Paper, would provide
immediaterelief for the most vulnerable populationgroups. This Project Paper seeks
the approval of a grant under the Global Food Crisis ResponseProgram (GFRP), which
was endorsedby the Board on May 29,2008, and will be financed out of the Food Price
Crisis Response Trust Fund (FPCR TF) in the amount of US$7.0 million for an
Emergency Food Price Response Project in Nicaragua. It would support two existing
Government programs, thereby ensuring their continuity and targeting to areas and
individuals most affected by the crisis. The first program is the Integral School Nutrition
Program (PINE), which is part of the Government's National Policy for Food and
Nutrition Security. The operation would ensure that poor children inthe most vulnerable
areas continue to receive lunch at school, maintaining their intake of nutritive food at a
time of crisis and encouraging their continued attendance. The second program is the
Agro-Seeds Program (PAS), which supports small farmers to increase their production.
The PAS was launched in 2007 and aims at providing small producers inthe areas most
affected by the crisis with seeds, fertilizer and technical assistance to ensure production
during the forthcoming agricultural cycles. This first operation builds on existing
programs with establishedsystems to minimize risks and ensure prompt implementation.

4.        The proposed operation is expected to be complemented by a second
operation, currently under preparation: the US$10 million National Seed Systems
Project. Its medium-termobjective would be to improve the availability of, and access
to, high quality seeds in order to sustainably increase agricultural productivity. The
operation would work across the country and would strengthen the entire seed supply
system.' It would focus on the basic grains (beans, maize, sorghum and rice) as these are



                 ~~         ~    ~~




  Certified seeds are seeds o f aknown variety producedunder strict seed certification standards to maintain
varietal purity. Seed lots must also meet specified standards for presence of other crops, inert matter, weed
seeds, and germination. Certified seeds are also free of prohibited noxious weed seeds.


                                                       1

key staples in the diets o f the rural and urban poor most affected by the food crisis, and
becauseNicaragua has excellent conditions to increase production o f these crops.


B. EmergencyChallenge:CountryContext,RecoveryStrategy andRationalefor
    the ProposedBankEmergencyProject.
Country Context: TheImpact of Food Prices on Poverty in Nicaragua

5.       Betweenearly 2006 and mid 2008 global food prices increaseddramatically.
The food price index compiled by the World Bank increased by 113 percent in the 18
months between January 2006 and June 2008. Nicaragua i s no exception to this trend and
indeed domestic food price inflation increased from 10.7 percent in January 2006 (year-
on-year) to 34.2 percent in August 2008. Food price increases moderated somewhat
duringthe second halfo f 2008, but with food inflation above 28 percent inOctober 2008,
Nicaragua has experienced amongst the highest price increases in the Latin American
region. This i s the result o f global developments being compounded by natural disasters
(Hurricane Felix in September 2007 and heavy flooding over the second part o f 2007)
that dramatically affected domestic food production.

6.       High food prices affect a majority of Nicaraguans, but the poor are affected
disproportionately.Bank analysis indicates that about 90 percent ofNicaraguans are net
food consumers    - 79 percent in rural areas and 98 percent in urban areas. The poor are
disproportionately affected by high food inflation rates, as the share o f their incomes
devoted to food purchases i s larger thanhigher income groups: in2007, the extreme rural
poor and the poorest decile experienced an inflation rate o f 3.4 percentage points higher
thanthe average rate (2.6 percentage points for the extreme urbanpoor)2. Moreover, both
the rural and urban extreme poor within the Nicaraguan poor are facing even higher
effective inflation rates. In rural areas this group devotes two-thirds o f their income to
purchase food andthe urbanextreme poor have limitedalternative food sources.

7.       The poverty impact of large shocks which affect entire groups of the
populationcan be substantial.Experience from the coffee crisis that affectedNicaragua
in 1998-2001 suggests that such external shocks canhave significant impacts onnutrition
and enrollment in schools, as well as on productive capacity (Box 1). This happens when
households engage in depletive coping strategies, such as, the sale o f their productive
assets (land, cattle, machinery, transportation means, etc.), the withdrawal o f children
from school (either because o f lack o f cash for transportation, books and clothing or to
increase the labor supply o f the household, with children helping in home production or
working outside the home), the deferred utilization o f preventive and curative health
services, or drastically reducing food intake. This type o f risk-management mechanism
can push households deeper into chronic poverty through long-term loses inproductivity
and an increased likelihood o f intergenerational transmission o f poverty. The need for




 WorldBank (2008)) Rising Food Prices: The WorldBank's Latin America and Caribbean Region
Position Paper. Report number44718, WorldBank. Washington, D.C.


                                               2

strategies to help the poorest and most vulnerable households cope, without engaging in
destructive risk management mechanisms, is very strong3.


  Box 1: Impact of the Coffee Crisis on Poorest and Most Vulnerable
 Zmpact on nutrition The coffee crisis is believed to be responsiblefor the lack of gain innutrition indicators
                       -
  in the central rural region, during the period 1998-2001, when all other regions experiencedimprovements
  (except for the rural Atlantic region which experienceda worsening of its indicators).

 Zmpact on education and child labor- While there were large increases in primary enrollment rates
  experienced by children in households not involved in coffee production (from 78 in 1998 to 86 percent in
  2001), enrollment rates decreased from 77 to 72 percent amongst households engaged in the coffee sector
  over that period. This is partly explained by an increase in child labor among coffee farmers by 24 percent
  between 1998and 2001.

 Impact on productive capacity     - During the coffee crisis in Nicaragua, there is evidence that some coffee
  farmers sold off assets as a means of coping with lower coffee prices, jeopardizing their later recovery.
  Sources: Mason (2005), Vakis et al. (2004).
I                                                                                                              I


The Government's Response

8.       Despitethe challenges associatedwith the commoditypriceshock of 2008, the
government has been able to maintain a sound macroeconomicframework. Indeed
the government efforts led to the completion o f the first review o f the PRGF by the
International Monetary Fundin September 2008. Intheir assessment, the Fundconcluded
that macroeconomic policies inNicaragua have remained prudent and performance under
the program broadly satisfactory, with all quantitative performance criteria met (except o f
a small shortfall in reserves accumulation). Despite this positive assessment, growth has
slowed down in2008 and could further slow down in 2009 as a result o f the challenging
external environment that is likely to result inlower external demand and remittances.

9.       The turbulence in global financial markets does not seem to have
significantly affected the Nicaraguan financial sector so far. Indeed Nicaraguan
commercial Banks are maintaining liquidity ratios that are comparable to those observed
before the current turmoil. Moreover, the authorities are monitoring daily the liquidity
situation o f banks, and announced their readiness to provide liquidity assistance should
banks come under stress.

10.      The Government of Nicaragua has used a range of market policies and
subsidies since the fall o f 2007 to minimize the negative impact o f the high food prices.
The Government o f Nicaragua has organized specific responses and interventions along
two main lines: (i)protecting the most vulnerable population, and (ii)increasing
agricultural production. Inorder to accommodate these interventions, for 2009 the PRGF-
supported program envisages a slower pace o f fiscal consolidation than originally
anticipated.




 Coudouel(2008), Mason et al. (2004), andVakis et al. (2004).


                                                     3

11.     To mitigate the effect of the food crisis on the most vulnerable groups, the
Government efforts have aimed both at establishing an overarching National Social
Protection System (SistemaNacional de Bienestar Social - SNBS) and at improving the
nutritional status of children. To respond to the immediate emergency, the Government
has focused on guaranteeing the functioning of the Integral School Nutrition Program
(Programa Integral de Nutricidn Escolar, PINE) in the poorest areas and on
implementing the national planto reduce chronic malnutritionthrough growth monitoring
and promotion. These efforts are core elements of National Food and Nutrition Security
Policy (PoliticalNacional para la Seguridad Alimentariay Nutricional, PNSAN), which
articulates actions to simultaneously improve availability, access, consumption and
biological utilization of food4. Interms of nutrition, the policy focuses on improving the
system of growth monitoring andpromotion for children under the age of 5, ensuring the
provision of school meals to the poorest children, and developing the National Social
Protection System (SNBS) to articulate government agencies and address the needs of the
most vulnerable segments of the population. This responsebuilds,onevidence that social
protection programs can indeedprevent dramatic losses inphysical, human and financial
assets intimes of crisis (see Box 2).


 Box 2: Evidence of impact of the Red deProteccidn Social on Children's Welfare and Investment

 Although it was not designed for that particular crisis, evidence suggeststhat Red de Proteccidn Social (Social
 Protection Network) was effective at mitigating the impact o f the 1998-2001 coffee crisis on the poorest. The
 Red de Proteccidn Social was a conditional cash transfer managed by the Ministry o f the Family in selected
 municipalities and supported by the IDB. Under this program, mothers received a cash transfer if they
 complied with a series o f commitments - namely that their children would enroll and attend schools and
 would attend regular health care visits. A rigorous evaluation o f the impact o f the Red de Proteccidn Social
 shows that the program had stronger impacts in the coffee-growing areas than in other parts o f the countries,
 and did effectively protect more those who were most affected by the associated downturn. In particular, it
 protected and promoted investment in child human capital (increased enrollment rates, decreased child labor,
 and improved nutrition indicators) and inproductive capital (coffee land and trees).

 Source: World Bank.Shocks and Social Protection. Volume 2. reDort No. 3 1857-CA. 2008.


12.     With respect to agriculture, the Government has been coordinating
interventions to improve the productivity of the agricultural sector through
agricultural extension and technology transfer, and to improve the value chains for food
in national and international markets. To respond to the immediate emergency, the
Government launched in 2007 the Agro-Seeds Program (Programa Agroalimentario de
Semilla - PAS) to guarantee the distribution of certified seeds to small farmers. The
Government is also implementing its Productive Food Program (Programa Productivo
Alimentario, PPA) which aims at endowing poor households with access to land with a
set of productive assets. Inaddition, the Government has developed its plan for a medium
term investment plan to improve the availability of high quality seeds and increase
agricultural productivity.



                       ~~~~~    ~~



4The effort is spearheadedby the Technical Commission for Food andNutritional Security (Comite'
Te'cnicopara la SeguridadAlimentariay Nutricional, COTESAN).


                                                     4

TheDonor CommunityResponse

13.     Donor response to the food price emergency has mostly focused on
interventions in agriculture. The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) has
identified four priority areas for urgent action: (i) provision and agricultural inputs
                                                               food
systems; (ii) production and distribution of basic grain seeds, roots and tubers; (iii)        public
agricultural extension systems; and (iv) dissemination of technological innovations to
increase food production in the short term. Donor agencies, especially through the
Common Fund' are supporting the "Productive Food Program" since 2008, aimed at
eradicating hunger, chronic malnutrition, extreme poverty and unemployment among
75,000 rural families and has so far consisted mostly of the distribution of roductive
assets6. Similarly, the MillenniumChallengeCorporationCompact (MCC) has been              7
focusing on increasing the income of rural farmers and entrepreneurs by reducing
transportation costs, improving access to markets, increasing wages and profits from
farming, and strengtheningproperty rights for several years.

14.      In addition to the support in agriculture, donors have extended support to
the social sectors. This support has focused on the development and implementation of
the national plan for the reduction of chronic malnutrition amongst children, the
improvement of the system of growth monitoring and promotion, the operation of the
Integral School Nutrition Program, andthe development of an integrated social protection
system to address the needs of the most vulnerable segments of the population.
Specifically, the UN agencies (PAHO/INCAP, FAO, and WFP) and the Ministry of
Health have articulated a common work-plan to implement a set of integral health
services aimed at improving the nutrition and health of children under five (with
emphasis on children under two years of age), and pregnant and lactating women in
targeted areas. The World Food Program has actively supported the Integral School
Nutrition Program in Nicaragua for years, focusing on the municipalities with highest
food insecurity as well as specific interventions in times of crisis or emergency. The
Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank (IDB) is formulating a social protection operation
to support the development of the social protection system for the most vulnerable
populations. The EuropeanCommissionand DFID are exploring options to support the
nutrition component of the Familyand Community HealthModel (MOSAFC), the model
of basic healthcare provision of the Ministry of Health, andthe development of the social
protection system.

15.     In both the social and agricultural sectors, the World Bank actively
coordinates its activities with the donor community, through sectoral roundtables in
the social sectors, the PRORURAL inthe agricultural sector (sectoral program organizing
donor support), and through the working groups of the Budget Support Group (the World


'The  Common Fund was established in2006 and is comprised by Switzerland, Norway, Finland, Sweden
and Denmark to support the various public sector agricultural agencies.
tiThe program distributes a "productive voucher" (bonoproductivo) to poor women with little land, which
comprises animals, seeds, fertilizer and other agricultural assets.
7 The Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC), is aUnited States Government corporation designedto
work with the poorestcountries to reducepoverty through sustainable economic growth.


                                                       5

Bank currently coordinates the Social Working Group). The World Bank has also led a
coalition to promote programs to fight chronic malnutrition, bringing Government
agencies, donors and civil society organizations together to further define the National
Food and Nutrition Security Policy (PNSAN, Politica Nacional para la Seguridad
Alimentaria y Nutritional) and promote its implementation.

Project Rationale

16.      The proposedoperation is one element of the World Bank's response to the
food crisis, focusingon immediatereliefto the poorestsegments of the population.It
responds to a specific request by the Government to support two programs aimed at
preventing hunger and malnutrition: (i)  the existing Integral School NutritionProgram for
pre-school and primary school students; and (ii)   the ongoing Agro-Seeds Program which
provides seeds, fertilizers, and technical assistance to small-scale farmers.

17.      The proposed operation would allow to respond to the immediate needs of
the most vulnerable population through established programs, with functioning
systems and mechanisms. This avoids the time and risks associated with setting up new
programs in very short periods of time, thus facilitating implementation. Moreover, this
facilitates the sustainability of these programs, since recent increases in prices of food
and fuel have increasedthe costs of these programs andjeopardized their continuity. The
proposed Project would thus ensure their continuity in the most affected areas of the
country, where household are most likely to be affected by the crisis and suffer losses in
human and productive capital, through depletive coping strategies such as withdrawal of
children from schools or because o f lack of agricultural inputs.

18.      Preventinghungeramong school-aged children and ensuringtheir continued
assistance in school is a key priority.The activities supportedunder this operation are
core elements of the Government's overall response to the food price increase, and,
support the broader strategy to fight chronic malnutrition and reach the first Millennium
Development Goal (MDG).Nicaragua's Integral School Nutrition Program has shown to
be effective in terms of targeting, and it was evaluated as one of the most progressive
social programs in the country. The International Development Association (IDA)
already supports the education sector through its investment operation (PASEN) and by
participating in the Education For All - Fast Track Initiative (EFA-FTI), therefore
ensuring a longer-term involvement and follow-up to the Integral School Nutrition
Program, as well as close donor coordination to ensure its longer-term sustainability.

19.      Promotion of agricultural production of small-scale farmers through the
distribution of seeds and fertilizers is also a priority in the short term. Evidence of
the effectiveness of seed and fertilizer distribution comes from earlier mechanisms such
as the National Seeds Program "Pound for Pound" (Libra por Libra) which received
finding under the First Agricultural Technology Project (CR 3371-NI). That program is
creditedwith significant productivity gains, with successful implementation and with the




                                              6

development of strong management information systems'. The Agro-Seeds Program
(PAS) builds on this prior experience and uses the institutional and implementation
mechanisms already established. The Government has requested the World Bank to
support the supply of agricultural inputs through this emergency operation, building on
its ongoing support to the sector through the Second Agricultural Technology Project
(PTA-11) andthe sector wide approachprogram knownas PRORURAL.


C. BankResponse: The Project
    1. Bank's Strategy of Emergency Support

20.     The World Bank i s in a unique position to quickly respond to the Government's
emergency efforts through its Global Food Price Response Program, a rapid financing
facility establishedinMay 2008, and supportedby a multi-donor trust fund. As ofthe end
of September 2008, the Global Food Price Response Program has approved and begun
disbursing US$188 million in 19 countries, and an additional US$658 million i s being
earmarkedfor programs in 12 countries.

21.     In Nicaragua, the Bank's will combine urgent attention to address immediate
needs of the population resulting from the food price inflation, as well as support
medium- and long-term solutions to prevent future crisis and respond to nutrition needs.
As previously mentioned, the proposed operation would support two establishednational
programs, the Integral School NutritionProgram andthe Agro-Seeds Program.

    2. Project Development Objective

22.     The proposed Project's Development Objectives are to mitigate the negative
nutritional impact of the food price increase on pre-primary and primary school children
and to promote poor rural households' food security by increasing agricultural
production.

23.     Specifically, the Project aims at: (i)supporting the provision of school lunches
and nutrition training in the most vulnerable municipalities, as well as strengthening the
national nutritional strategy; and (ii)distributing certified grain seeds and fertilizers to
farmers with small landholdings inthe poorest municipalities.

24.     Giventhe nature ofthe Project andthe short implementation period, the impact on
nutrition and food security will be measured in a narrow sense, through the following
proposed Project output indicators. The Project will also be assessed on the basis of
intermediaryindicators, presented inAnnex 2.


    0   Numberof childrenreceiving lunches inpre-schools andprimaryschools
    0   Numberof school days childrenreceived school lunches
        Areas plantedwith seeds provided by the Project

* WorldBank, ImplementationCompletionReport, 2005. The programwas foundto havebeneficialresults
onproductivity,primarilyfor maize(increase of 37 percent),andbeans (increase of63 percent).


                                                 7

    3. Summary of Project Components

25.     The Grant would support these two existing programs, providingthe resourcesfor
their continuity at a time of crisis. While the proposed operation would not increase
coverage of the PINE or the PAS, it would ensure that the services are maintained inthe
most vulnerable areas, in face of increase intheir costs and more broadly, in a context of
overall increased costs faced by the Government.

Component 1. Support of Integral School Nutrition Program               -   PINE (US$4.3
million;approximately59 percentofthe Grant's amount).

26.     This Component would support the on-going Integral School Nutrition Program
in targeted municipalities and would be implemented by the Ministry of Education
(MINED). Approximately 263,000 pre-school and primary school aged children in 52
municipalities (8 departments) classified as having high or very high food vulnerability
and/or presenting severe or high poverty levels (defined in terms of unsatisfied basic
needs) would benefit from it for a period of about 100 days (representing about half the
school year). Specifically, the Grant would finance the purchase of inputs for school
lunches (namely rice, oil, maize, cereals and beans). Government counterpart funds
would be usedto finance the administrative costs of the program (included inthe Project
cost), including the transportation and distribution of the food to schools. The cost of the
preparation of meals would be bornby the community, teachers andparents.

27.     The Component would also support activities aimed at improving the program
and strengthening existing national systems to address chronic malnutrition amongst
children, a core element of the National Food and Nutrition Security Policy (PNSAN).
Specifically, the Grant would finance the purchase of the materials for training of
teachers and school communities on nutrition, as well as printing and disseminating costs
of the school food consumption survey. This survey is a key input to the identification of
necessary adjustments to the program, as well as to the design of other core programs of
the National Food and Nutrition Security Policy, such as the development of a nutrition
curriculum for children and teachers and the design of tools and guidelines for the
provision of child and maternal health services by the Ministry of Health.

Component 2. Support of Agro-Seeds Program                    -   PAS (USs2.7 million;
approximately41 percentof the Grant's amount)

28.     This    Component would support the Agro-Seeds Program (Programa
Agroalimentario de Semilla - PAS) which distributes a technological package of certified
seeds, fertilizers, and training and technical assistance to qualified beneficiaries in the
form of a credit. The inputs are valued at market-prices and the package is provided as a
credit that can be reimbursed with in-kind contributions or in cash at the end of each
agricultural cycle, and funds would be used for the following season. The Component
would assist approximately 31,590 small producers from rain-fed agricultural areas




                                              8

where the agricultural cycle is most compromised9. Specifically, the Component would
finance the purchase and distribution of seeds and fertilizers as well as technical
assistance and training to producers, as well as operational costs resulting from project
implementation and monitoring and evaluation activities. This Component would be
executed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAGFOR), with the support of
public sector agencies, such as the NicaraguanAgricultural Technology Institute(INTA),
the Rural Development Institute (IDR), the Nicaraguan Basic Food Company
(ENABAS), andthe Rural Credit Fund(FCR).

    4. Eligibilityfor Processingunder OPBP 8.0

29.     The proposed operation i s eligible for processing under OP/BP 8.0 as it addresses
major adverse economic and social impacts resulting from the food price crisis as
described above. The operation provides immediate support in preserving essential
services and supporting income generation for the most vulnerable households, which
have been severely affected by the crisis. The proposed operation would also support
measures to strengthen the national capacity to mitigate the potential effects of future
emergencies through its technical assistance to the implementation of the National Food
and Nutrition Security Policy. This is also provided through the second proposed Project
for Strengthening the National Seed Systemas requestedby the Government.

    5. Consistency with CountryPartnership Strategy

30.     The Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Nicaragua, completed in October
2007, has four strategic objectives: (i)     reactivating the economy, stimulating productivity
and competitiveness; (ii)human capital development by improving social equity and
opportunity; (iii)infrastructure and sustainable development; and (iv) strengthening
governance and accountability by modernizing state institutions and promoting citizen
participation.

3 1.    The proposed operation fits broadly within each of the four objectives of the CPS
strategy. First, the CPS identifies improvements in social service provision and the
development of a national strategy to combat chronic malnutritionas key elements for the
achievement of the MDG goal of addressing extreme poverty as measured by chronic
malnutrition. The proposed operation supports the Integral School Nutrition Program, as
well as improvements to the nutrition strategy, bothof whichfall under this umbrella.

32.     Second, the CPS identifies the need to expand economic opportunities for the
poor, predominantly in rural areas, particularly through agricultural extension services.
Theproposed operation supports the Agro-Seeds Program, partlyaddress this need.

33.     Finally, the proposed operation respondsto a specific request sent by the Minister
of Finance and Public Credit ofNicaraguato the Country Director on September 8,2008.



9 Departments o f Matagalpa, Jinotega, Nueva Segovia and Boaco. Selected areas o f the Atlantic Coast in
proximity to these four departments might also be included.


                                                    9

    6. Expected Outcomes

34.     The following outcomes are expected at the end o f the proposedoperation:

(i) Maintainnumberofchildrenreceivinglunches(andnumberofdaysofservice) in
       pre-schools and primary schools intargetedareas.
(ii)IncreaseareaplantedwithseedsprovidedbytheProject.

D. AppraisalofProjectActivities


Economicand FinancialAnalyses

35.      Activities under Component 1 target children in the poorest public pre-schools
and primary schools. Combined with the support provided by the World Food Program,
this operation would ensure the coverage of all children in municipalities that exhibit
highor very high food insecurity and/or highor severe poverty (see Annex 1). A recent
analysis o f social spending shows that PINE is one o f the most progressive programs in
Nicaragua. The targeting, andhence impact, o f the program i s expected to be even higher
as the municipalities selected present greater incidence o fpoverty.

36.      Internationally, evidence suggests that school nutrition programs have positive
impacts on school attendance and enrolment. Interms o f cost-benefit, studies suggest that
school health and nutrition programs are relatively cost-effective compared with other
public health interventions. PINE'S impact can be expected to be particularly high
amongst poor children, since they are most likely to drop-out or be absent.

37.      The Government is expected to sustain the Integral School Nutrition Program as
nutrition interventions are a core priority o f the National Human Development Plan and
the National Food and Nutrition Security Policy. Further, the Government is trying to
reduce the unit cost o f food through a planned decentralization o f the management o f the
Integral School NutritionProgramto regional bodies and local purchase o f food.

38.      Component 2 targets small producers in areas which are particularly affected by
the recent crisis, but still present large, untapped, production potential. Within these
areas, small producers with access to small plots have been selected, as they are the most
vulnerable, but can also benefit greatly from investments in productive inputs, in
particular seeds and fertilizer.

39.      The limited availability o f quality seed i s a key constraint to enhancing
agricultural productivity levels in Nicaragua. Better seed alone would allow substantial
yield increases, in the order o f 10 to 20 percent and estimates indicate that using
fertilizers increases productivity levels by 22 to 34 percent nationally. Taking into
account estimates o f the production that farmers would have obtained without the
program, it i s estimated that the program would allow farmers to raise their expected
incomes by about US$4.7 million.



                                             10

40.     This program is expected to have a very limited fiscal impact, as the producers
repay the credit after they harvest the production realized with the distributed seeds and
fertilizer. It i s expected that the capital base of the PAS would be largely maintained,
allowing a continued operation in later seasons or an investment in the long term
strengthening of the seed system, as currently proposed in the complementary operation
aimed at strengthening seed supply.

Technical

41.     The appraisal mission reviewed the two programs that the proposed operation
would support: (i)the Integral School Nutrition Program; and (ii)the Agro-Seeds
Program. Existing information about the effectiveness of both programs and their
effectivenesswas reviewedand found satisfactory, as mentioned earlier inthis document.

42.     Inthe case of the Integral School NutritionProgram (PINE), created in 1998, an
evaluation has shown its targeting to be effective. Additionally, recent simulations by the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) show that school nutritionprograms are significantly
more cost-effective at reaching the poor than price subsidies or changes in import tariffs,
since they are generally better targeted and more progressive.

43.     The Agro-Seeds Program (PAS) was created in2007 to addresses the needs of the
agricultural cycle 2007/08, namely the availability of certified seeds, fertilizers and other
inputsto boost agricultural productivity. Duringthe first planting cycle 2008/2009 (April-
May), the PAS distributedseeds to 54,435 small producers following a similar strategy as
the one proposedunderthis Operation.

Institutional

44.     The proposedoperation consists of two Components: (i)           Integral School Nutrition
Program; and (ii)      the Agro-Seeds Program. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
(MAGFOR) would retain the overall responsibility for the coordination of Grant
implementation. As such, MAGFOR would be responsible for managing the Designated
Account, submitting disbursement requests to the Bank, preparing quarterly financial
monitoring reports, and contracting the audit of the use of grant proceeds and the
independent technical audit to monitor seeds and foods distribution to beneficiaries.
MAGFOR andthe Ministryof Education (MINED) would enter into an inter-institutional
agreement",      whereby MINED would be given responsibility for implementing the
operation's first component. The second component would be implemented by
MAGFOR, with the support of public agriculture agencies (SPAR), as detailed below.

45.     Component 1.The Integral School NutritionProgram(ProgramaIntegral de
Nutricidn Escolar,PINE). MAGFOR would be responsible for transferring resources to
MINED to carry out this Component. MINED would be responsible for the
implementation of the activities -purchasing and distributing inputs for the school lunch,
training of school community on nutrition aspects, and dissemination of results from the


loThey already is a signedimplementationagreement, which specifiesroles andresponsibilities.


                                               11

school nutrition survey-following       administrative, financial, procurement, auditing,
environmental and social standards and practices acceptable to the Bank. MINED would
provide MAGFOR with the documentation required for the disbursement of Grant
proceeds. MINED would also be responsible for providing MAGFOR with the
informationrequiredfor them to comply with the fiduciary and supervision obligations of
the Grant. MINEDhas over ten years of experienceimplementing IDA-financedprojects
and is well acquaintedwith the Bank's fiduciary and safeguardpractices.

46.     Component2. Support for the Agro-SeedsProgram (PAS). MAGFOR would
be responsible for the implementation of this Component with the support of agricultural
public sector agencies (SPAR) listed below. A subsidiary agreement would be signed
between MAGFOR and each of these agencies (FCR, IDR, and ENABAS), and
MAGFOR would transfer to them the corresponding funds so they could carry out the
agreed activities, as defined in the Operational Manual. Whenever applicable, each
agency would be responsible for following administrative, financial, procurement,
auditing, environmental and social standards and practices acceptable to the Bank. The
agencies would also provide MAGFOR with the informationand explain that this will be
further detailed inthe Operation Manual required for them to comply with the fiduciary
and supervision obligations of the Grant, as detailed inthe Operational Manual

47.     The Rural Credit Fund (FCR), established by Law 294 in 1998, would be
responsible for administering the Project's revolving fund. The FCR was created to
provide financial services to the rural sector. It is a nonprofit, self-sufficient organization
and as such does not receive funds from the national budget for its operations. Although
FCR has been ascribed to the Nicaraguan Financial Investment Agency (FNI) since its
creation  - and thus has been governed by FNI's Board of Directors and Executive
Committee - it has maintained its managerial authority and independence regarding its
portfolio management. As it will do under the Project, FCR finances sustainable
productive activities through cooperatives, producers associations and NGOs. FCR has
incorporated a gender equity approach into its services through specific programs for
women producers. Under the proposed operation, fanners would use both cash and in-
kindpaymentsto repay the credit advancedto them, andthe proceedswould be deposited
inthe FCR's revolvingfund. For the proposedoperation, aManualhasbeenpreparedfor
the management of the revolving fund, including inter alia, acceptable criteria for
selection of credit beneficiaries, interest rate regime and basic financing parameters for
the loans, and indicators to monitor the sustainability of the fund. This Manual is an
intrinsic part of the Project's Operations Manual.




                                             12

  Box 3: Key Features of the Rural Credit Fund (FCR)

  The Government of Nicaragua establishedthe Rural Credit Fund (FCR) in 1998 to provide credit to
  small and medium size agricultural producers. The FCR channels its funds through cooperatives and
  other microfinance institutions. It has the necessary human resources to supervise field operations in
  collaboration with MAGFOR and to register credit flows in its own financial system. The FCR has a
  network of 124 institutions nationwide that work with small producers' associations and cooperatives
  located in or near the project area. The FCR encourages the participation and provides services to
  women cooperativesthought its "Women DevelopmentProgram" and the institutionalstrengtheningof
  their organizations/cooperativesthrough solidarity groups. Duringthe first quarter of 2008, the FCR
  served 4,132 clients, of which 33 percent were women. The FCR target group comprises the most
  vulnerable peoples in the country with the highest poverty rates, mainly rural women, indigenousand
  afro-descendent populations. It evaluates risks and carries out monitoring and evaluation of its
  activities through two main units: the Risk Evaluation Unit and the Financial Services Unit. For this
  specific project, the FCR will exclude from future credits those beneficiaries who do not pay back the
  loans.


48.       FCR's institutional assessment indicates that it has the capacity to manage the
revolving fund under the Project (August 2007). Recently, however, the Government
created a new state retail bank, Banco de Foment0 Productivo. The law creating this bank
mentions FCR, but it is not clear whether the new bank would absorb the portfolio o f
FCR. The experience o f retail banks in Nicaragua has not been very positive due to
problems with credit allocation and portfolio management. The Government has given
assurance that FCR will maintain its full managerial authority. As explained in Annex 9,
the Financing Agreement will include a suspension clause that would serve the purpose
o f protecting the revolving fund in case FCR were to lose its independence. (Annex 9
presents an analysis o f the operation's compliance with OP8.30, as required by 0PB.P.
8.30, Financial Intermediary Lending).

Box 4: Advantages of Having the FCR Manage the PAS RevolvingFund

In2007the new administrationofthe FCRdrafteda five-year strategicplanto strengthenFCR's roleas the
government's second-tier rural financial intermediary, increasethe volume of its operations, and diversify
its financial products, while keeping its strategic focus towards small and medium rural businesses. The
plan focuses on: (i)aligning the institution towards common medium-term objectives, regarding clients
and services; (ii)identifying institutionalstrengthening programsfor itself and its clients; (iii)pledging to
GovernmentofNicaraguaand donors for additional capital againstclearer objectivesandproducts; and(iv)
monitoringperformancemoretransparently.

A recent institutionalevaluationofthe FCR (August 2007) suggeststhat FCR's increasingprofessionalism,
recent sustained improvements in financial results, and management's commitment to a medium-term
strategic plan is placing the institution in a good positionto start playing an important role in financial
intermediationfor the rural sector.    The risk o f closing down the institution is low because FCR role is
very specific andtargetedtowards the non-regulatedsector. Inaddition, the presentProject has includedas
one of its covenants that in the event that the FCR would become absorbed by a Government Rural
Development Bank, the FCR will maintain its independence regarding the managing of funds of the
RevolvingFund.




                                                      13

 The evaluation suggests that the opportunity cost for donors andor GON of not relying on FCR for rural
 financial intermediation i s to channel public resources to agriculture trough FCR competitors". Most o f
 these lenders engage in cherry picking with micro finance institutions, choosingto work mainly with the
 best rankedfinancial intermediariesas well as commercial players, often operatingonly marginallyinrural
 areas. This places FCR in a unique position to channel public resources to an established network of
 financial intermediaries that serve aim their intermediation at farmers and rural businesses, though in a
 higherrisk segment.

 FCR's role goes beyond the financial service provider mandate as it acts indirectly as the primary
 organizationto identify capacity needsofthe non-regulatedfinancial intermediaries' clients. FCRprovides
 them with feedback on the actions required to become eligible subjects of credit and then directs them to
 other programsthat can do technical assistance andcapacitybuildingto movethem closer to eligibility.

 The Bank has experience working with the FCR, since it is part of Hurricane Felix Emergency Recovery
 Project. Through this Project the FCR is administering funds of a revolving fund establishedto provide
 boats andworkingcapitalto affectedmenandwomento restarttheir fishing activities ina more productive
 andsustainableway. So far, the experiencehas beensatisfactory.

I                                                                                                         I


 49.      The Nicaraguan Agricultural Technology Institute (Instituto Nicaragiiense de
 Tecnologia Agropecuaria          - INTA), together with MAGFOR, would be responsible for
 providing technical assistance to producers. This would be done through training
 providedby extensionworkers to local promoterswho would, inturn, providetrainingto
 farmers. The trainingwould focus on agronomic techniquesandcredit.

 50.      The Nicaraguan Basic Food Company (Empresa Nicaragiiense de Alimentos
 Bdsicos -ENABAS), a decentralized agency responsible for providing adequate post-
 harvest storage and maintenance of grains, would establish direct communicationwith
 seeds producersto negotiatepricesandtimetables, andpurchasethe seeds. Fundsfor the
 purchase would be advanced to ENABAS through an institutional agreement with
 MAGFOR.MAGFOR's technical delegateswould be responsiblefor the distribution.

 51.      MAGFOR would sign an institutional agreement with the Rural Development
 Institute (Instituto de Desarrollo Rural - IDR) which would be responsible for the
 purchase and distributionof inputs (fertilizers) according to the specifications given by
 MAGFOR. The IDR maintains direct communicationwith input suppliers inthe country
 inorder to determineprice, timeline for deliverables and availability of inputsaccording
 to the demands ofthe proposedOperation.IDRestimatesthe cost of the inputs and sends
 that informationto MAGFOR. Once the price has beenagreed, MAGFORtransfer funds
 to the IDR to purchase the inputs. IDR buys the inputs through a procurement o f
 commodities process and places them in the storage facilities specifiedby MAGFOR in
 the selected municipalities. Technicians from the agricultural public sector agencies
 distributeseeds andfertilizer to the beneficiarieswho must signa Receiptand an "I-owe-
 you" indicatingthe specific amountto bepaidbackto the RuralCredit Fund.




   Apart from IDR, mainFCRcompetitors are basicallyexternal sources, mostly financedby donors like
 WisconsinUniversity,SwedishFONDEAGRO, GlobalPartnership,OIKOCREDIT, RABOBANK,Blue
 Orchard, Bancode DesarrolloEcon6micoy Socialde Venezuela(BANDES), andRootCapital.


                                                      14

Fiduciary

52.      While Nicaragua's overall capacity for financial managementwas assessed during
the appraisal mission and both MINED and MAGFOR were found to have extensive
experience with the financial aspects of World Bank-financed projects, because o f the
involvement of multiple agencies in the management of Grant funds (MAGFOR,
MINED, ENABAS, IDR), the financial management risk at entry was assessed to be
Substantial before the implementation of mitigatingmeasures.

53.      Once the mitigated measures have been implemented and are working as
intended, the financial management risk would drop to Moderate. This Moderate rating
would bejustified by: (i)    the design of the Project which supports existing programs with
a good track record inimplementation and existing control mechanisms; (ii) targeting   the
mechanisms for benefits that are based on existing, published, poverty and vulnerability
maps, removing the risk of mis-allocation (for the school lunch program, the benefits
would be universal within targeted areas, while for the seeds program, the selection
criteria have been clearly defined and would be communicated through local media,
extension agents and municipal governments); (iii)the relatively straightforward
financing of a small number of contracts; (iv) the prior experience of the implementing
entities with World Bank-financed projects; and (v) a close supervision effort to be
provided by the Bank.

54.      As part of the procurement assessment carried out during appraisal, the
organizational structure, o f the implementing agencies was reviewed. MAGFOR and
MINED have well-established procurement units which are staffed with procurement
officers and assistants with relevant procurement experience. However, both institutions
lack capacity to implement procurement for multiple operations effectively. Also, the
capacity of ENABAS was not fully assessed. Because of these factors, the Project's
overall risk for procurement i s rated High. To mitigate the risks, the implementing
agencies will contract a firm to carry out an independent technical auditing that would
include a review of the distribution of goods to beneficiaries, and prior review will be
adopted for all contracts awarded by ENABAS, as Direct Contracting is the mode of
procurement adopted for the procurement o f seeds'*.

Safeguards

55.      The proposed operation has an environmental rating of "B" (limited impact). It
triggers the safeguards on Pest Management (OP 4.09), Environmental Assessment (OP
4.01), and Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10).

56.      To comply with each of these safeguards, the Government has preparedstrategies
for completing environmental management, integrated pest management, and indigenous


I 2Procurementfor the proposedproject would be carriedout in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: ProcurementUnder IBRDLoans and IDA Credits" datedMay 2004, revisedinOctober 2006;
and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultantsby World BankBorrowers" dated May 2004,
revisedinOctober 2006, and the provisions stipulatedin the Legal Agreement.


                                                  15

peoples' plans (EMP, PMF, and IPP, respectively). These strategies are found in Annex
7. As the operation is being processedunder emergency procedures, the three plans may
be completed after appraisal. Specifically, the EMP and PMF, triggered by Component 2
of the Project, will be ready before the distribution of seeds and fertilizer. The IPP
addressing the situation related to both components will be ready prior to the delivery of
school lunches.

57.     All three plans will be consulted with key stakeholders prior to their finalization
and disseminatedprior to the next cycle of seed distribution (inthe case of the EMP and
PMF) and the next delivery of school lunches (inthe case of the IPP). Additional details
on the content ofthe plansand consultation process canbe found inAnnex 7.

58.     In addition, the proposed Project falls under OP 8.30, Financial Intermediary
Lending. A description of the financial sector issues and of the compliance with OP 8.30
i s presented in Annex 9. A formal review has been completed, which concluded that the
Project complies with OP8.30.


E. ImplementationArrangementsandFinancingPlan


 Supervision,MonitoringandEvaluationArrangements

59.     The overall risk of the proposed operation is substantial. As such and consistent
with OP 8.00, the Bank's supervision team will provide close implementation support,
including technical assistance, through frequent missions, close follow-up from local
office team members, and particular supervision and guidance from the financial
management and procurement specialists. Furthermore, an independent technical audit
would be contractedto monitor the distribution of goods to beneficiaries.

60.     The information systems for the monitoring of Component 1 were reviewed
during appraisal. In particular, the overall information system o f the Ministry of
Education, which will provide information on attendance and retention, and the
information system of the Integral Food Nutrition Program (PINE), which will provide
informationon the number of childrencovered by the program, have been assessed to be
o f good quality. These systems have been functioning for several years, and recent
international audits have found them to be satisfactory. In addition the system of
supervision and spot checks of the PINE has proven its ability to monitor progress and
identify issues quickly.

61.     The informationsystem for the Agro-Seeds Program (PAS) was also found to be
of satisfactory level. Although relatively new, it builds on the system of a previous
program (National Seed Program) which was supported by the World Bank through the
Technical Agricultural Project I. database of the PAS will provide informationon the
                                  The
number of beneficiaries and onthe areas planted, while informationon repaymentsof the
credit will be provided by the Rural Credit Fund and information on yields will be
calculated on the basis of the supervision visits by MAGFOR technicians.



                                             16

ProjectCost

62.      The proposed operation is estimated to cost US$7.3 million. Since the
Government has decided to finance the administrative and transportation costs associated
with the distributing o f school lunches, the Grant would finance 96 percent of the total
cost and Government counterpart funds would finance the remaining costs. Additionally,
Grant resources could be used to retroactively finance eligible activities up to 40 percent
o f the total Grant amount, per OP 8.00. Table 1presents the cost o f each component.


  Summary of Project Cost Estimates by component                                     U S Dollar
  1. Component1: The Integral Program of SchoolNutrition
  1.1 Purchase and distribution of school lunches to 52 municipalities               4,292,463
  1.2 Capacitybuilding process to improve knowledge on food consumption inall the
 municipalities ofthe Autonomous Regions ofthe Atlantic Coast                           13,714
  1.3 Publishing and disseminatingthe SchoolFoodConsumption Survey                       8,263
  Subtotal Component 1.                                                              4,314,440
  2. Component2: The Agro-Food Seeds Program
  2.1 Seeds                                                                          1,527,03 1
  2.2 Agricultural Inputs                                                            1,102,923
  2.3. Training to improve knowledge ofthe advantagesof using certified seeds,
  integratedpest management, agronomic techniques, credit access, terms and
 conditions, business plans and marketing                                              160,000
 2.4 Operationalcosts including printing documents, supplies ,and final auditing       210,046
  Subtotal Component2.                                                               3,000,000
 Total                                                                               7,314,440

FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements

63.      The implementing agencies would manage the budget through an integrated
financial management system (SistemaIntegrado de Administracibn Financiera - SIAF)
created under the PRORURAL, a donor harmonization program. SIAF is already
operational at MAGFOR and will be implementedat MINED.

64.      Disbursement. The following disbursement methods would be used: (a)
reimbursement; (b) advances; and (c) direct payment. MAGFOR would keep a
Designated Account in US. dollars at the Central Bank o f Nicaragua, consisting
exclusively o f Grant proceeds and to be used for eligible expenditures. The maximum
amount o f the Designated Account would be US$2 million. MAGFOR, MINED and all
other implementing agencies would be responsible for keeping adequate documentation
o f expenditures, as well as providing MAGFOR with the required information for the
preparation o f financial reports. The Tesoreria General de la Repziblica will open
accounts under the Grant's name (MAGFOR and MINED), for which resources would be
transferred on the basis o f 30 day projections. Large expenses will be paid out directly
from a National Treasury Account to the service provider while small expenditures will
be paid directly by the implementing agency.

65.      Audits. There would be an annual external independent audit for the proposed
Operation, following international audit standards. The external audit would have to be


                                                     17

presented to the Bank no later than 6 months after the end o f the fiscal year. MAGFOR
and MINED'Sexternal audit departments would also carry out annual internal audits o f
the activities financed under the Grant.

Procurement arrangements

66.      Goods procured under this operation would include: seeds, fertilizers, and food
products such as cooking oil, beans, corn, etc. As an exceptional case linked to an
emergency, in order to respond quickly to mitigation of major adverse economic and
social impacts resulting from the food crisis in Nicaragua, the procurement for this
operation, processed under OP/BP 8.0, will be done using Procurement o f Commodities,
Direct Contracting and Shopping. The proposed operation would finance reproduction o f
educational materials under National Shopping procedures using Request for Quotations
approved by the Bank. The operation would also finance the operation's auditing and
independent technical auditing to monitor distribution o f goods. Short lists o f consultants
for services estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract may be
composed entirely o f national consultants inaccordance with the provisions o f paragraph
2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines. Project implementation-related expenses such as
utilities, office supplies, cost of combustible, costs related to handling and storage o f food
products, seeds and fertilizers, office vehicles maintenance, etc., financed by the Project
would be procured using the implementing agency's administrative procedures which
were reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank.

67.      The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project
implementation which provides the basis for the procurement methods. Inaddition to the
prior reviews and technical supervisions, the capacity assessment of the Implementing
Agencies recommended that a mid-term supervision mission visit the field, and to
undertake post reviews o f procurement actions. In addition, the implementing agencies
will contract a firm to carry out independent technical auditing that would monitor the
distribution of goods to beneficiaries.


F. Project Risks and MitigatingMeasures


68.      The overall risk o f the proposed operation is considered Substantial.Table 2 lists
the identified risks and proposed mitigation measures. Overall, the proposed operation
would be implemented inan environment that i s complex and risky. To reduce risks, the
operation is very simple in its design, especially in its fiduciary arrangements, and
supports two programs which have established and functioning systems and procedures.




                                               18

'able 2: ProjectRisks and          itigatingN asures
Critical Risk                      Risk Rating  Mitigation Measure                                 Risk with
                                                                                                   Mitigation
                                                                                                   Measures

  Macroeconomicfiamework:             High      0PRSC dialogue.                                    Moderate
  Nicaragua has completedthe                    0Coordination with the IMF and agreement with
  first review of the IMF's                      Fund on program.
  PRGF arrangement, and                         0Continue to work with donors to reducesupply-
  agreed on amacroeconomic                       driven character of aid flows.
  program for the coming                        0Strengthenfiduciary managementthrough
  months. However, the difficult                 coordination with the Budget Support Group.
  global economic environment                    Agreement with private domestic banks on a
  is likely to contribute to lower              0
                                                 public debt restructuring.
  growth andremittances.
0 Governance:Impasse with             High      0Coordination with BSG, especiallyto strengthen    Substantial
  Congress on key legislative                    rule of law.
  agenda, politicizationof                       Coordination with EC, Mesa Global and Civil
  regulatory institutions and                    Society to broadeninformation base.
  judiciary, defacto re-                         StrengtheningofPublic financial management
  nationalization of electricity                 PSTAC implementation by incorporating its
  distribution company,                          milestonesto Macro dialoguewith IMF.
  corruption, andweak                           0Donor support to strengthentransparencyand
  institutional capacity.                        evaluation through improved M&E.
                                                0Strengthengovernmentcapacity for implementing
                                                 national H&A plan.
                                                0Dialogue on Energy StrategyNote with mediation
                                                 from MIGA, include inthis dialogue the IMF,
                                                 IDBandBSG.
   Security and social stability:  Substantial  0Initiatives to promote agricultural production    Moderate
   highimpact offood inflation                   through access to inputs
   on poor.                                     0National FoodandNutrition Security Policy and
                                                 associated oroaams
                                      High      0 None                                                High

  Highdependency ondonor                         Programscentral inNational HumanDevelopment
  financinginbothsectors,                        Plan andthe NationalFoodandNutrition Security
  riskingfinancial and technical                 Policy, the basis for donor engagement.
  sustainability.                               0PRORURAL MidTerm Evaluation delivered a
                                                  favorable assessment on its continuation.
111. Operation specificrisks
Reputational
Balancing emergencynature of        Substantial  Project designensures good targeting of benefits  Moderate
operation with quality and                       and rigor of fiduciary processes.
eauitv concerns.




                                                      19

0Selection o fbeneficiaries on a  Moderate  0Benefitstargeted on the basis of existing,             Low
 political basis.                            published,poverty and vulnerability maps.
                                            0PINE covers all pre and primary level students
                                             within selected municipalities.
                                            0Ago-Seed Program's selection criteria are clear,
                                             and will be disseminated through local media,
                                             extension agents and municipal governments.

0Low commitment to medium-        Moderate  0Operation supports strategic activities to define     Moderate
 term objectives.                            medium-term reforms to existing programs and
                                             designadditional interventions.
                                            0Bank's team supporting Government with the
                                             design o f a mechanism to articulate an integral
                                             response to most vulnerable households.
                                             Operation coordinated with the agriculture Project
                                             under preparation(Dec. 2008) which focuses on
                                             medium-termobjectives.
                                                                .
                                                             1 9
                                                 J r



0Riskofadulteration inthe         Moderate  0Programs have systems o f verification along the
 supply chain (intentional                   various steps o fpurchase, storage, transportation
 debasing o f quality o f goods              and distribution.
 distributedto benefit from the             0Unannouncedspot checks as part o f the regular
 difference incost) and risk o f             supervision o fthe PINE, and strict guidelines on
 theft along the supply chain.               storage and distribution.
0Institutions in charge o f        High     0Government designed a technical assistanceand        Substantial
 supervisingthe repayment o f                training plan to enhance the necessary skills and
 credits lack capacity and                   information to staff involved inthe collection o f
 experience.                                 repayments.
0Repayment inkindplace                      0Producers will receive detailed information on the
 additional logistical burdenon              way the credit mechanism works.
 the program.                               0Operational procedures are inplace to
                                             accommodate in-kindrepayment.
0Agencies lack human              Moderate   The technical assistance andtraining plan              Low
 resources to monitor field                  incorporates coordination mechanisms.
 activities and coordinate.
0Limitedavailability o f          Moderate  0The program will purchase seeds from national          Low
 certified seeds inNicaragua.                registered vendors in municipalities attended by
                                             the program. Incase o fa lack ofavailability, the
                                             program will broaden the pool o f vendors to other
                                             localities andor countries.


0Borrower fails to carry out                0Government will prepare an EMP and a PMF
 agreed activities required to               prior to the next seed distribution and an IPP prior
 meet Bank safeguard policies.               to the next delivery o f school lunches.
                                            0Government prepared similar plans for on-going
                                             operations, which would serve as the basis.
                                            0Consultant with experience informulation o f



0Overlaps and competition        Moderate   0The team has heldcoordination meetingswith the         Low
 among donors.                               main donors inthe social and agriculture spheres
                                             to coordinate its response.
                                             IDA participates insectoral roundtables for these
                                             sectors, where activities are coordinated.



                                                 20

0Nicaraguais proneto                       0 MAGFOR definesits areas of interventionso as to   Moderate
 recurrent hurricanes,heavy                  excludeareas at highrisk of losingharvests,even
 rains, floods, anddroughts.                 iftheypresenthighagriculturalproductivity
                                             potential.

0Beneficiariesmight default on Substantial  0Programhas developedmechanisms to decideon        Moderate
 their repaymentifhitby a                    whether, when andhow to write offdebt incase of
 drought or other natural                    natural disaster.
 disaster.                                 0 The follow up operationwill review FCR`s price
                                             andweather risk exposureto designa strategy to
                                             mitigatethese riskswhere possible.
                                           0 The rain-fedagricultural areas selectedhave



0While overall financial                    0The operationhas beenkept simple interms of its
 managementcapacity in                       disbursementschedule andflow o ffunds (with
 Nicaraguaremainslimited,                    only one DesignatedAccount).
 implementingagencieshave                   0Agencies have on-going WorldBank-financed
 extensiveexperiencewith                     projects, andthe Projectwill benefit from the
 WorldBank-financed                          existingcapacity andstaff.
 projects. However,                         0Agencies will have inplace an agreement to guide
 involvement ofmultiple                      implementation,andMAGFORalreadyhas
 agenciesthat will manage                    experiencewith agreements.
 funds increasesthe Project's               0Projectdesignis simple, with the financing of
 financial managementrisk.                   only a few contracts.
0The overallprocurementrisk      High       0Procurementactivities for this operationhave       High
 inNicaraguais considered                    beenkept simple, limitingthe potential for any
 highdueto limitedcapacity.                  major difficulties.The Bank wouldprovide advice
                                             as neededandmonitoringprocurementactivities
                                             with the counterparts.Also, an independent
                                             technical audit will be contractedto monitor the
                                             delivery ofgoods to beneficiaries.
0To be sustainable,the         Moderate     0FCR.Credit beneficiarieswill bewell informed       Low
 revolvingfund needsto                       about their responsibilitiesregardingthe loans
 transitionto commercial                     throughthe Project's trainingandtechnical
 interest rates, have sound                  assistance. Bank andGovernmenthave agreedthat
 selectioncriteria for                       future credits will be against commercialterms
 beneficiariesandallow full                 0The FinancingAgreement includesa suspension
 recoveryofadministration                    clause that shouldprotectthe revolvingfund if
 costs by FCR.Managerial                     FCR loses its independence.
 independence ofFCRmay be                    The WB institutionalassessmentofthe FCRhas
 compromisedifit looses its                  ratedthe riskof closingdownthe institutionas
 authority underthe newly                    low becauseFCRrole is very specific andtargeted
 createdstate bank.                          towardsthe non-regulatedsector.
OverallRating


    G. Terms and Conditionsfor ProjectFinancing

    69.       The Grant would be financedthroughthe GlobalFoodPrice Crisis Trust Fundfor
    which IDA acts as Trustee.




                                                 21

                     Annex 1: DetailedDescriptionofProjectComponents


The World Bank's response to the increase in food prices combines supply and demand side
interventions for the short and medium term. The proposed operation focuses on mitigating the
negative nutritional impact of the food price increase on pre-school and primary school children
and on promoting poor rural households' food security by increasing agricultural production. This
operation would be complemented by the National Seed Systems Project, to be financed by a
US$10 million equivalent IDA credit, the objective of which i s to improve the availability of and
the accessto highquality seeds, inorder to sustainably increaseagricultural productivity.

The proposed US$7 million operation is organized intwo components, described below:

0    The first Component would support the provision o f school lunches through the existing
     Integral School Nutrition Program in targeted municipalities. The beneficiaries include circa
     263,000 pre-school and primary school children in 52 municipalities (in 8 departments)
     classified into high or very high food vulnerability or poverty. The Component would also
     support activities aimed at improving existing programs and strengthening the national
     systems in place to address child nutrition concerns, as part o f the National Food and
    Nutrition Security Policy (PNSAN). This Component would be implementedby MINED.


0    The second Component would support the distribution of a technological package that
     includes certified grain seeds and fertilizer, as well agricultural extension services to 30,190
     small producers (up to 3.5 hectares of land) in areas where the agricultural cycle is most
     compromised in the departments o f Matagalpa, Jinotega, Nueva Segovia, and Boaco. The
     Component supports an existing program, the Agro-Seeds Program (PAS) originally
     launched to overcome the shortage in the availability o f certified seeds for the 2007/2008
     agricultural cycle and built on a former program known as the National Seeds Program
     (Programa Libra por Libra) supported by the World Bank-financed First Agricultural
     Technology Project (PTA-I). This Component will be implementedby MAGFOR.

Component 1: The Integral Program of School Nutrition (PINE) (US$4.3 million, 61
percentof totalProjectcost)

The Integral SchoolNutrition Program

The Integral School Nutrition Program (Programa Integral de Nutricibn Escolar, PINE) i s
executed by the Ministryof Education. Its objectives are to: (i)  increasethe intake of nutritiveand
fortified food amongst children of pre-school and primary school age; (ii)increase school
attendance, and decrease dropouts in preschools and primary schools; and (iii)strengthen
community participation and the adoption of good feeding and sanitary practices in public and
community preschools and primary schools.

The PINE is one o f the programs supporting the broader National Food and Nutrition Security
Policy (PNSAN, Politica Nacional para la Seguridad Alimentaria y Nutricional), in particular
through the distribution of school lunches to children of preschool and primary schools and the
integration of a curriculum for the development o f food and nutritional education.

The Program delivers school lunches at a per capita cost of circa US$O.16. The basic food ration
includes rice, corn, mixedcereals, beans, and vegetable oil. The rations are sometimes adapted by


                                                  22

the schools to include local products or fruits and vegetables provided by parents or the
community. The school lunch provides between 30 and 45 percent of the daily recommended
intakes for children of pre-school and primary school age, as presented in Table 3 below. The
PINE delivers the food inputs (rice, maize, cereals, bins and oil) to the schools, and the meals are
preparedby communities,teachers and parents who contribute labor and cooking fuel.




  Total                 145.0       576      15.0        13.0      100       85.0    6.17      0.6
  Nutritional                    2,000       35.0        63.0     300      600.0    14.00    400.0
  requirements
  Rationas % of                   29%        43%       21%       33%         14%    44%        0%
  requirements

Inaddition, the PINE is working in coordinationwith other agencies ofthe Technical Committee
for Food and Nutrition Security (Comite` Te`cnicopara la SeguridadAlimentaria y Nutricional,
COTESAN) to develop a curriculum for school children, teachers and parents that would equip
Nicaragua's populationwith a greater understandingof nutrition issues, and greater knowledgeof
the good practices that can be adopted to prevent chronic malnutrition, especially amongst
children under the age of 5. In particular, this effort is coordinated with the Ministry of Health's
efforts to implement its Family and Community HealthModel.

ComponentDescription

Componentone includesthree main areas of intervention:

1.       Purchase and Distribution of School Lunches to children in 52 municipalities (US$4.29
million). The proposed Project would finance the operation of the PINE for the first semester of
2009 (100 days) in 52 prioritized municipalities where PINE is not guaranteed by existing
funding sources. Inparticular, the proposedProject would fund the purchase of school lunchesfor
an estimated 263,000 students for the period of February (beginning of school year) to August
2009. This represents about 25 percent of the total number of children enrolled in public pre-
schools and primary schools. Governmentcounterpart funds would finance the cost relatedto the
transportation and distribution of the school lunches, estimated at US$314,440. Box 3 details the
targeting scheme and Table 4 provides the comprehensive list of the 52 targeted localities.

2.       Capacity Building at school level (US$13,714). The proposedProject would also support
the PINE'S efforts to improve teachers and pupils knowledge on food consumption in all the
municipalities of the Autonomous Regions of the Atlantic Coast (school lunch, nutrition
practices, indigenous food, etc.). In particular, it would finance the printing of manual and
bookletsand the costs of workshops.

3.       School Food Consumption Survey (US$8,263). The proposed Project would support the
School Food Consumption Survey, which aims to identify the food consumption patterns of



                                                 23

primary school students (food consumedat home and at school), determine its quality in terms of
micro and macro-nutrients, and propose improvements to the school lunch provided by PINE.
This activity will be coordinatedwith the technical assistance activities provided by the Food and
Agriculture Organization (FAO). The survey will be undertakenin 600 randomly selected schools
in municipalities where the program is implemented. The operation would finance costs
associated with the dissemination ofthe survey results.

                       ~~


 Box 1.1. Targeting mechanism for supportingthe PINE

 This component would target beneficiaries at the municipal level, as any lower level of targeting would
 be too cumbersome and costly to implement, particularlygiven the urgency of respondingto the crisis.
 The team consideredfiu-ther targeting within the school levelbut decided against it as the cost would be
 too great andtargetingindividualstudents couldcreateunnecessarynegative stigma for them.

 The targeting mechanism selected to identify the municipalities supported by the proposed Project
 comprisestwo stages, as follows:

 - Inthe first stage, the municipalities were orderedintermsoftheir foodvulnerability(onthe basis ofthe
   Food Vulnerability Map of 2007). The Project targets all the municipalities with high and very high
   food vulnerabilitythat are not coveredbythe WorldFoodProgram.
 - Inthe second stage, the remainingmunicipalities were orderedby poverty level, from severe to high,
   medium and low poverty, using the UnsatisfiedBasic Needs map developed in 2005 by the national
   statistical institute, and which the Ministry has beenusingto plan its operations. The projecttargets all
   the municipalitiesthat are found insevere or highpoverty andnot alreadycoveredby other programs.




 Department            Municipality                     Number of  Number of     Level of food   Poverty level
                                                         schools    students     vulnerability




                                                     24

 Total Boaco




 Total Chontales




Component2: The Agro-Seeds Program(US$3.0 million,41 percentofProject Cost)

TheAgro-Seeds Program (PAS)

In 2007, The Government of Nicaragua launched the Ago-Seeds Program (Programa
Agroalimentario de Semilla - PAS) which provides certified seeds, fertilizers and other inputs to
boost agricultural productivity. The PAS aims at contributing to greater food security and greater
income generating opportunities for poor rural households through the provision of a
technological package (certified seeds and fertilizer) together with training and technical
assistance in agronomic techniques. Inaddition, the Program aims at encouraging access to credit
for a segment of the population without access to financial instruments. Box 4 presents the
targeting mechanisms apply to select municipalities and beneficiaries.




                                              25

Box 1.2: Targeting mechanism

Selectionof municipalities
The geographic targeting was done using the Aggregate Food Insecurity Index and the Extreme Poverty
Map13.The former shows that the agrarian regions with the highest aggregate insecurity index are the Old
Agricultural Frontier, the Caribbean and Pioneer Front and the Central Latifundio, with index values
between 0.5 1 and 0.83. This information were combined with data from the Extreme Poverty Map (which
classifies departments in severe, high, medium and low), to select four departments(Matagalpa, Jinotega,
Nueva Segovia, and Boaco). The selected departments were then assessed on their ago-ecological
potential. Even though the departments selected show high poverty and vulnerability indexes, they are
areas with highpotential for increased agricultural production. While these are rain-fed areas, ingeneral
they are not affected by droughts and the soils have good drainage, so that agricultural losses due to rains
or drought are not significant. The producers inthese areas have a long tradition o f cultivating basic grains
andare very familiar with the use ofagricultural inputssince they receive training andtechnical assistance
from INTA.

Selectionof Beneficiaries
Within the selected areas of interventions, a National Technical Committee selects beneficiaries on the
basis o fthe following criteria:
         have a plot between 0.7 and 3.5 hectares
    0    have land apt for basic grain production
    0    have experience incultivating basic grains (maize, beans and sorghum)
    0    not carry out slash and burnagriculture
    0    bewilling to signan " I-Owe-You" to pay back the credit for seeds and inputs
    0    have an identity card.

Inaddition, the databaseofthe "Pound for Pound" program is usedas a first stepto identifybeneficiaries.
However, other producers can be selected based on the remaining selection criteria and on self-selection;
Le., they can express their interest to the Municipality Committee or cooperative, and the National
Technical Committee decides whether they are eligible. Beneficiaries needto have an identity card, which
encourages undocumented people to be registered with national authorities. Table 5 provides further detail
on the selected departments and number o fbeneficiaries.

Table 1.3: Selecteddepartments, numberof beneficiariesand conditions.
                                              IAgro-ecological conditions




l3 The agregate food insecurity index is presented in MAGFOR-FAO, Junio 2008. Propuesta de
Focalizacidnpara la implementacidnde la Politica de Seguridady SoberaniaAlimentaria, con el apoyo de
la FAO. The agrerian zones are presentedin Dumzert, Patrick (2007). Propuestametodoldgicatomada del
documento Desarrollo de herramientas defocalizacibn aplicables para el PRORURAL, and the extreme
poverty map is developed by the nacional statistical agency on the basis o fhousehold surveys and censuses.


                                                     26

                                                             Climate Zone (INETER classification)




Component Description

The second Component would support PAS by financing the provision of certified seeds and
inputs (fertilizers)to about 31,590 small agriculturalproducers lackingthe necessary inputs.The
seeds and agricultural inputs would be provided to beneficiaries as a loan valued according to
marketprices.The loan is to be repaid, inkindor cash, andhas a maturitywhich varies according
to the crop supported (6 months for maize, and 5 months for sorghum and beans). INTA
recommendsthe variety o f seeds to be usedindifferent agro-ecologicalzones. The averagecredit
to the beneficiaryfor inputsis about US$90.Payment in kindwill be valued at market prices, and
stored by ENABAS,the public sector storage facility, and sold on the regular markets or to other
government programs. The money generated by the sale of surplus grain will be deposited in a
revolving fund that will be used to finance future agricultural cycles. These funds will be
administered by the Rural Credit Fund (FCR) and regulated by an institutional agreement
betweenMAGFORandthe FCR.

Agricultural inputs (certified seeds and fertilizers) are accompanied by a flyer with instructions
on the use andmanagementof fertilizer as well as on integratedpest management guidelines.The




                                                 27

Program has a clause which allows to reduce the repayments in case o f adverse weather
conditions (floods and droughts), on the basis of a Technical Committee's assessment.

The Component would also support technical assistance and training to producers. INTA and
MAGFOR extension agents train local promoters who in turn provide technical assistance to the
other producers of the area. The technical assistance combines: (i)training on agronomic
techniques, use and management of inputs, benefits o f using certified seeds, production of
certified seeds and grains appropriate for sowing; and (ii)training on credit aspects, such as
eligibility, terms and conditions; payment schedule, marketing, business plans and group
formation.

Specifically, the Component finances three main areas of intervention:

1. Seeds (US$1.5 million). Delivery of 2,616 qq of certified seeds (maize) 17,171 qq beans and
    606 qq sorghum, to small producers.

2. Agricultural inputs (US$1.1 million). Provision of 8,982 qq o f urea and 21,464 qq o f
    fertilizer to small producers.

3. Training (US$O. 16 million). Provision of training to extension agents, promoters and
    beneficiaries. Orientation workshops on agronomic techniques, integrated pest management,
    terms and conditions o f the loan, etc.

4. Operationalcost (US$0.2 1million). Operational costs for the entire Component.

The Component would be executed by MAGFOR, with the support of agricultural public sector
agencies (SPAR), such as the Nicaraguan Agricultural Technology Institute (INTA), the Rural
Development Institute(IDR), the NicaraguanBasic Food Company (ENABAS), a public storage
facility, and the Rural Credit Fund(FCR).




                                                28

                          Annex 2: Results Framework and Monitoring
                                                  ---,        .
PO0                                                               <.y
                               Outcome!ndic$to*                      ,



*

-1__1.
Mitigate the negative           Number o f children receiving lunches in pre-schools and
                                                              -                          Informationon
nutritional impact o f the      primary schools.                                         the outcome
food price increase on pre-     Number o f days children received school lunches.        indicators would
primary and primary school     0Areas planted with seeds provided by the Project.        be used to
children and to promote                                                                  improve policy
poor rural households' food                                                              design.
security by increasing




Component 1:                   0 Public primary retention rates intargeted areas.        To assess
Protect school attendance      0 Public primary attendance rates intargeted areas.       program
and nutritional status of Pre- 0 Numberof schools that havereceivedtraining materials    implementation
school and primary school        on food security and nutrition.                         intargeted areas
age children by providing                                                                and measure
lunches to public school                                                                 children's access
students in vulnerable                                                                   to school lunch
municipalities, while                                                                    (through
supporting improvements in                                                               enrolment and
the national nutritional                                                                 attendance).
strategy and associated
programs.
Component 2:                    Numberof farmers receiving seeds, fertilizers and        To assess
Promote poor rural              technical assistanceiagricultural extension services.    program
households' food security      0 Yields inmaize, beans and sorghum production.           implementation
by increasing agricultural      Amount paid back as % o f value o f inputsprovided in    in targeted areas,
production through the           cash and in-kind,within stipulatedperiod.               gains for farmers,
distribution o f certified                                                               and sustainability
grain seeds and fertilizers to                                                           ofthe program.
farmers with small
landholdings inthe poorest
municipalities intime for
the next agricultural cycle.




                                                 29

0
m

Institutionsresponsible
The results monitoring o f this Project will build on the information systems of Ministry of
Education, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the Nicaraguan Institute of Farming
Technology, the Rural DevelopmentInstitute, the NicaraguanBasic Food Company and the Rural
Credit Fund.

Component 1:The Integral SchoolNutritionProgram

Supervision. The Component will be supervised using the existing system of the Integral School
Nutrition Program (PINE). The system allows monitoring both at the central and at the local
level. The operational manual formally states the responsibilities and the coordination
mechanisms with other regular activities of the MINED, as well as coordination effort with
departmental and local levels. As defined in the operational manual, a Technical Committee
supervises the activities and decision making processes at the central level, and local technicians
supervise and monitor implementation at the local level. They produce quarterly reports on
project implementation and evaluation following the results framework agreed for the Project.
Overall, PINE has 41 supervisors and 61 social promoters at the national level. They will
implement circa 4,000 supervision visits in 2009 and 16 quarterly evaluations with municipal
delegates and technicians for the 52 targetedmunicipalities.

Informationsources. In addition to the supervision reports, the main information sources are the
administrative records of the Program and, more generally, the administrative records of the
Ministry of Education. This PINE information system was established in 1998, with technical
support from the World Food Program, and has formed the basis for the program's monitoring
and reporting to international development partners who have contributed to the program. The
MinistryofEducationundertakes a uniqueaudit (withall donors) every year, and as a result, both
the overall information system and the PINE system have been audited systematically according
to internal mechanisms and external requirement for the periods that it was financed with external
resources.The audits have found the systems to be satisfactory.

More specifically, information on the number of children receiving lunches and the number of
days children received school lunches in the Project area will be collected from the PINE
information system on a monthly basis. Information on attendance and retention will be
calculated from the Ministry's overall information system on a trimester basis. Finally,
information on the number of schools and participants that have received training materials on
food security and nutrition will be collected from specialized reports on the implementation of
these workshops by PINE.

Survey on consumption. The Project supports the dissemination o f the results of a survey of
food consumption patterns amongst school children. This will contribute to the changes in the
program that the Government of Nicaragua is planning in the context of its National Food and
Nutrition Security Policy. The survey will shed light on children's diets and will be usedto revise
the lunch composition, as well as to design the curriculum for children, teachers and parents on
good practices innutrition.




                                               31

Component2: The Agro-SeedsProgram

Supervision. The monitoringand supervision of the Component will be undertaken by agents of
the public agriculturalsector, from centraltechnicians to rural promoters.Through technicalfield
trips, these agents will evaluate the degree of germination, harvest status and integrated pest
management.The data collectedwill be usedto monitorthe outcome indicatorsand results of the
program.

Information sources. The main information source is the existing information system of the
program, implemented since 2007. The system of the Agro-Seeds Program (PAS) draws heavily
from the system of the previous National Seed Program (Plan Nacional Libra por Libra)
introducedin2002, and financed by the World Bank throughthe TechnicalAgricultural ProjectI
(PTA-I). The database, managedby the TerritorialDelegationDepartmentinMAGFOR,contains
informationon beneficiaries(name, number and location); movement of seeds; supply, demand
and availabilityof seeds; repaymentof credit, etc.

More specifically,informationon the number of farmers receivingseeds, fertilizers andtechnical
assistance and on the areas planted with seeds from the program will be directly extracted from
the program's database. This information will be provided for each agricultural cycle.
Informationon repayments of the credit will be providedby the Rural Credit Fund(FCR) at the
end of the repayment period (4 or 5 months, depending on the crop). Finally, information on
yields will be calculated on the basis of the supervision visits of the program's technicians for
every agriculturalcycle.




                                               32

                             Annex 3: Summaryof EstimatedProject Costs


Summary of Project Cost Estimates                                                    (US$ Million)
US$Million
                                                                          Foreign        Local         Total
1. Component 1: The Integral Program of SchoolNutrition
1.1Purchase of school lunchesto 52 municipalities                          3,978,023   3 14,44014     4,292,463
1.2 Capacitybuildingprocessto improve knowledge on food
consumptioninall the municipalities ofthe AutonomousRegionsof
the Atlantic Coast                                                             13,714                     13,714
1.3 Publishinganddisseminatinghe SchoolFoodConsumptionSurvey                    8,263                      8,263
Subtotal 1.                                                                4,000,000     314,440       4,314,440
2. Component 2: The Agro-Seeds Program
2.1 Seeds                                                                  1,527,03 1                  1,527,03 1
2.2 AgriculturalInputs                                                     1,102,923                   1,102,923
2.3 TechnicalAssistance/Training                                             160,000                     160,000
2.4 Operationalcosts                                                         201,046                     210,046
Subtotal 2.                                                                3,000,000                   3,000,000
Total                                                                      7,000,000     314,440       7,314,440




     l4Includesall costs associatedwith distributingfood inputsto schoolto be financedwith counterpartfunds.


                                                       33

             Annex 4: FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements


The proposedProjecthasbeendesignedas follows:

       The approach taken to implement this Project is as follows: a) the Ministry of Education
       (MINED) will be responsible for the implementation of Component 1 (a total of
       approximatelyUS$4 millions); and b) the Ministry of Agriculture (MAGFOR), with the
       assistance of ENABAS and IDR, will be responsible for the implementation of
       Component 2 (a total of approximately US$3 million). In addition, MAGFOR will be
       responsible for coordinatingthe overall implementationof the grant, which means that
       MAGFOR will be responsible for maintainingthe Designated Account, preparing and
        submittingto the Bank the disbursementapplications, consolidatingand submittingto the
       Bank the quarterly interim financial reports (IFRs) and contracting the audit for the
       Project.

       It is important to mention that the first Component would support the on-going
        Government's Integral School Nutrition program in targeted municipalities, for which
       MINED already has an existing control mechanism. Specifically, the Grant would
        finance the purchaseofthe school lunches, trainingof teachers and school communityon
        nutrition, and carryingout of a school food consumption survey. The Government would
       remain responsible for the administrativecost of the program, includingthe distribution
       ofthe foodto schools.

       The second Component would support the on-going program of distribution of a
       technologicalpackage includingseeds, fertilizers, and urea to qualifiedbeneficiaries, for
       whichMAGFORhas an existingcontrolmechanism.Specifically,the Component would
       finance the purchase and distribution of seeds, agricultural inputs such as fertilizers,
       technical assistance and training to producers, and monitoring and evaluation of the
       program. The seeds and agriculturalinputs would be providedto beneficiariesas a loan
       valued accordingto market prices. The loan is to be repaid, in kind or cash, and has a
       maturitywhich varies accordingto the crop supported(5 months for maize, and 4 months
       for sorghum and beans). The Rural Credit Fund (FCR) would be responsible for
       administeringthe repayment of credit for agriculturalinputsby beneficiaries, but will not
       directly manage Grant funds. An institutionalevaluationof FCR, which was carriedout
        in Augusts of 2007, indicates that FCR's financial performance has improved since its
       creation reversingthe trendof financial losses,that FCRhas in place appropriatecapacity
       and an adequate administrativestructureto carry out its functions and that, under current
       management, FCR has well designed administrativemanuals, includingeligibilitykredit
       approval manuals andprocedureswhichcontributeto increasing its efficiency.

       It is also important to mention that the grant is expected to have an implementation
       periodofonly 18 months(fromJanuary 2009 to June 20IO).

On the basis ofthe assessmentsperformed,the financialmanagementteam presentsthe following
conclusions:

(i)    MAGFOR has prior experience with managing fiduciary aspects of Bank financed
       projects (through its involvementin credit 4127 and IFAD 04400 and 04410) and has in
       place a basic administrative structure and systems (financial management and internal
       control system), which puts it in a good positionto manage the fiduciary aspects of the


                                               34

         Project. According to the last supervision mission, MAGFOR had in place satisfactory
         financial management arrangements (the latest ISR rating for financial management is
         MS). The basic administrative structure and system already in place, coupled with the
         proposed additional activities (semi-annual internal control reviews and intensive FM
         supervision) will help MAGFOR achieve satisfactory FM arrangements by the time the
         Project becomes effective.

(ii)     Similarly, MINED has prior experience with managing fiduciary aspects of Bank
         financed projects (through its involvement in credit 3281 and 3978) and has in place a
         basic administrative structure and systems (financial management and internal control
         system) in place, which puts it in a good position to manage the fiduciary aspects o f the
         Project. According to the last supervision mission, MINED did not have in place
         satisfactory financial management arrangements (the latest ISR rating for financial
         management is MU). However, since the last supervision mission, there has been a
         restructuration o f the Ministry, transferring the financial management functions from the
         stand alone PIU to the Administration Unit (DAF) of the Ministry, which resulted in
         improvements in the financial management arrangements. The basic administrative
         structure and system already in place, coupled with the improvement resulting from the
         restructuring of the Ministry and the proposed additional activities (semi-annual internal
         control reviews, intensive FM supervision and the implementation of SIAF) will help
         MINEDachieve satisfactory FMarrangements bythe time the Project becomes effective,
         and certainly by the time disbursements for Component 1 start.

(iii)    The financial management capacity assessment has identified project-specific actions in
         order to enable the entities to monitor the financial activities of the Project and carry out
         the financial activities of the proposed Project effectively. The proposed intensive FM
         supervision will ensure the implementation of the action plan and the effectiveness o f
         control mechanism at the time o f effectiveness and during implementation.

OrganizationalArrangements and Staffing
The overarching approach to project implementation will be to use existing capacity in the
Nicaraguan institutions involved (MAGFOR and MINED), rather than creating new Project
Implementation Units(PIUS). Therefore, financial management for the Project will be undertaken
by each institutional Finance and Administrative unit (DGAF) which are currently responsible for
the financial management aspects o f the on-going Bank financed projects, and there will be no
additional personal neededas the current staff i s sufficient to manage the incremental activities if
the proposed Project.

MAGFOR, as the entity overall responsible for coordinating the implementation of the Project,
will be directly in charge of: (i)budget formulation and monitoring of Component 2; (ii)cash
flow management for the entire Project (including submittingloan withdrawal applications to the
Bank); (iii)maintenance of accounting records for Component 2; (iv) consolidation and
preparation of in-year and year-end financial reports for the entire Project; (v) administration o f
underlying information systems (SIGFA and SIAF); (vi) consolidation of the POA and PAC; and
(vii) arranging for execution of external audit.

MINEDwill be directly incharge of: (i)       budget formulation and monitoring o f Component l;(ii)
maintenance of accounting records for Component 1; (iii)preparation of in-year and year-end
financial reports for Component 1 and submission to MAGFOR for consolidation; and (iv)
administration of underlying information systems (SIGFA and SIAF).




                                                  35

FinancialPlanningand Budgeting
Each institution will be responsible for preparing its investment program for the next year,
according to the schedule established by annual budget law ("ley anual de presupuesto"). The
investmentprogramwill be presentedto SEPRESfor evaluationand incorporationinthe national
public investmentplan ("Plan Nacional de Inversidn Pziblica" or PIP). According to applicable
norms, the PIP couldbe subject to two levels of authorization:i)by the TechnicalCommittee of
inter-ministerial investments ("Comite` Te`cnico de Inversiones inter-ministerial" or CTI) and ii)
the "Gabinete Econdmico de Gobierno". The PIP will be presented as part of the annual budget
proposalof each implementingentity.

On the basis of the approved budget, each implementingentity will adjust as needed its project
annual work (POA) and procurement plan (PAC), which will be reviewedby the World Bank.
MAGFORwill beresponsiblefor consolidatingthe POA andPAC for the Projectfor presentation
to the Bank.

Accounting Policiesand Procedures
Project transactions and preparation of financial statements will follow the cash basis of
accounting.

The main financial management regulatory framework for the Project will consist of: i)Budget
law ("Ley de Presupuesto"), which establishes the procedures for budget formulation, approval
and execution; ii)The "ley General del Presupuesto Anual de la Republica", which provides
detailed in relation to budgeting regulated by the "Ley del Presupuesto"; iii)Norms and
procedures for budget execution and control issued by MHCP; and iv) the manual y norms
developedinrelationto SIGFA.

These documents will be complemented by project-specificfinancial managementarrangements
documented in a concise financial management section of the Project's operational manual.
Among others, specific reference will be made to: (i)the internal controls appropriate for the
Project; (ii)
            the formats ofProjectfinancialreports; and (iii)auditingarrangements.

InformationSystems
Implementingagencies (MINED and MAGFOR) will utilize SIGFA for budget formulation and
execution. In addition, as expenditures/commitments arise, they will be recorded in SIGFA and
once approved; funds will be transferred by Tesoreria General de la Repziblica to make
paymentsto suppliers, contractors or consultants.

MAGFOR developed an integrated financial management system for the implementation of
PRORURAL,which will be also usedto meetthe reportingrequirementsofthe proposedProject.
This system will enable MAGFOR to: i)capture the informationin relationto budget execution
from SIGFA to prepare project financial reports as described in the next section; and ii)monitor
information in relation to physicalprogress of project implementation.The system will also be
implementedand usedby MINED as a complementary system to meet the reportingrequirement
of the Project.

FinancialReports
MINED will be responsible for providing the required information to MAGFOR for the
preparation of quarterlyreports (IFRs). On a quarterly basis, MAGFORwill prepare and submit
to the World Bank an unaudited interimfinancial report(IFR) containingat least: (i)a statement
of sources and uses of funds and cash balances (with expenditures classified by subcomponent);
(ii)astatementofbudgetexecutionpersubcomponent(withexpendituresclassifiedbythemajor


                                               36

budgetary accounts); and (iii)Grant advance reconciliation and Bank statements showing cash
balances of designated accounts, fiscal accounts and any other bank account (petty cash or any
other) at the moment of the reporting to allow reconciliation among the reports. The interim
reportswill be submittednot laterthan 45 days after the endof eachquarter. Inthis case, the IFRs
will not be utilized for disbursement purposes. The IFRs will be part of the project progress
report, complementingother project information.

On an annual basis, MAGFOR will prepare the Project's annual financial statements including
cumulativefigures for the period.The financial statements will also includeexplanatory notes in
accordance with the Cash Basis InternationalPublic Sector Accounting Standard (IPSAS), and
MAGFOR's assertion that loan funds were used in accordance with the intended purposes as
specifiedin the Loan Agreement. These financial statements, once audited, will be submitted to
the World Bank not later than six months after the endofthe fiscal year.

The supporting documentationofthe quarterly IFRs and annual audited financialstatementswill
be maintained in the Unit's premises, and made easily accessible to World Bank supervision
missionsandto externalauditors.

Flow of Funds
WorldBank DisbursementMethods
Consideringthe results of the assessments, the following disbursement methods may be used by
MAGFOR to withdraw funds from the grant: (a) reimbursement, (b) advance, and (c) direct
payment.

WorldBank DesignatedAccount
Under the advance methodand to facilitate project implementation, MAGFOR have access to a
DesignatedAccount (DA) in US dollars and maintained in Banco Central de Nicaragua in the
name of the Project. Funds deposited into the DA as advances, would follow Bank's
disbursementpolicies and procedures, as described inthe Disbursement Letter and Disbursement
Guidelines.

The ceiling for advances to be made into MAGFOR's DA would be US$2,000,000, estimated to
be sufficient for project execution for a period of 3 months. The reporting period to document
eligibleexpenditurespaidout ofthe DA is expectedto be on a quarterlybasis.

Supporting documentation for documenting project expenditures under advances and
reimbursement methods would be records evidencing eligible expenditures (e.g. copies of
receipts, invoices) for payments for consultant services against contracts valued at US$50,000;
for payments for goods against contracts valued at US$150,000 or more, for payments for works
against contracts valued at US$150,000 or more. For all other expenditures below these
thresholds, supporting documentationfor documentingprojectexpenditures will be Statementsof
Expenditures(SOEs).

All documentationwill be maintained for post-reviewand audit purposesfor up to one year after
the final withdrawalfromthe grant account.

DirectPayments supporting documentationwill consist of records(e.g.: copies ofreceipts,
supplier/contractors invoices).The minimumvalue for applications for direct payments and
reimbursementswill beUS$150,000.




                                               37

Paymentsfrom the designatedAccount
Tesoreria General de la Reptiblica would open 2 fiscal accounts ("cuentas escriturales") for the
Grant (one for MAGFOR and the other for MINED) where funds will be received from the
Designated Account and maintained in local currency to allow implementingagencies to make
payments in localcurrency. Transfers from the DesignatedAccount to the fiscal accounts would
be base on the needs of each implementingentity for a maximum of 30 days in order to limit
exposureto exchangerate differences.

To make payments to contractors, providers and consultants for goods, works or services
provided under the Project, each implementing entity will request payments directly through
SIGFA, through the "Cuenta del Tesoro Nacional" (CUT). For payment of minor expenditure,
each entitywill processpaymentthroughthe mechanismfor revolvingfunds.

For the implementationof Component 2, MAGFOR will use the assistance of ENABAS and
EDR for the purchase and distribution of seeds and fertilizer. Agreements will be signed with
ENABAS and EDR and transfers would be made to ENABAS and EDR to enable them to
purchase and distribute seeds and fertilizer on the basis of approved plans. MAGFOR will be
usingexistingcontrolmechanismsto monitortransfers madeto ENABASandEDR.

                  Grant Flow of FundsDiagram:




                                 Disbursement t o DesignatedAccount (DA)



                                      DA BancoCentral
                                         de Nicaragua


                     Transfers t o fiscal            Transfers to fiscal
                     account based on                accovlt based on
                     commitments                     commitments



                         MAGFOR

                  r  Transfers based on
                     Approved plans       1



DisbursementDeadline Date
Four monthsafter the closingdate specified inthe Grant Agreement.

Audit Arrangements
Internal Audit. In the course of its regular internal audit activities vis-a-vis the institutional
budget, internal auditors for MAGFOR or MINED may includeproject activities in their annual
work plans. If such audits occur, MAGFOR or MINED will provide the Bank with copies of
internal audit reports covering project activities and financial transactions. To complement the
work of the internalauditors, a semi-annual internalcontrol reviewwill be performedby external
auditors andthe reportspresentedto the Bank.



                                                        38

   External Audit. The annual project financial statements prepared by MAGFOR will be audited
   following International Standards on Auditing (ISA), by an independent firm and in accordance
   with terms of reference (TORS), both acceptable to the Bank. The audit opinion covering project
   financial statements will contain a reference to the eligibility o f expenditures.

   The audit work described above can be financed with proceeds from the grant. MAGFOR will
   arrange for the first external audit within three months after Grant Effectiveness. Since project
   implementation will be more than 12 months, an annual audit will be performed for the Project.
   Ineffect, two audit reports will be submitted to the Bank. The first one will cover the periodfrom
   effectiveness to December 31, 2009 and will need to be presentedto the Bank before June 30,
   2010. The second one will cover the period from January 1,2010 to the closing date or the end of
   the grace period whichever comes first (the closing date is expected to be June 30,20 10) and will
   need to be presentedto the Bank before June 30,201 1. The audit scope will include the review of
   the transactions incurred duringthe retroactive financing and the grace period. The scope of the
   audit will also include a review of the control mechanisms in MINED and MAGFOR for the
   existingprograms with recommendations on how to improve these systems.

   Inaddition, memoranda on internalcontrols ("management letters") for the fiduciary activities of
   the participating entities will be produced on a semi-annual basis, covering: (i)    weaknesses noted
   by the auditors in the internal control systems of the Project; (ii)cases of application of
   inappropriate accounting policies and practices; (iii)issues regarding general compliance with
   broad covenants; and (iv) any other matters that the auditors considers should be brought to the
   attentionof the borrower.

                         Audit Report                                           Due Date

   (1) ProjectFinancialStatements                                     June 30,2010 & June 30,2011

   (2) SpecialOpinions

           SOEs (used for disbursementpurposes)                       June 30,2010 & June 30,2011

           DesignatedAccount (Special Account)                        June 30,2010 & June 30,2011

   (3) Report on Internal Controls as of March 3 1, 2009 and       June 30,2009 & December 31,2009
   September 30,2009



   Retroactive Financing
   The donation would finance up to 40 percent of the total Grant amount as retroactive Financing
   for activities implemented prior to January 2009.



                              Expenditure                                Loan Amount     O hof Expenditures
                                Category                                     (US%)         to be Financed
(1) Goods, operating costs, training andconsultant services for               4,3 14,440       100%
Component 1ofthe Project.
(1) Goods, operating costs, training andconsultant services for               3,000,000        100%
ComDonent 2 ofthe Proiect.
I              Total                                                   I      7,314,440 I                  I




                                                       39

CountryIssues
The portfolio of Nicaragua has been facing systematic and reiterative issues in public financial
management. The current administration has taken adequate steps towards systematic
improvements but some weaknesses still remain that have to be addressedinthe short term, such
as weaknesses in budget management (planning, execution and evaluation), low project financial
execution reflected in the level of physical advance and works, chronicle delay in the delivery of
annual audit reports to the Bank (nevertheless this fiscal year will show some improvements),
rotation of project key fiduciary staff, issues in the Projects internal control systems and
weaknesses in the ex post control (internal audit of the own organizations and external from
Contraloria).

RiskAssessment Summary
The financial management risk at entry would be Substantial without the implementation of
mitigating measures. However, the risk once there is evidence that the mitigating measures have
been implemented and are working as intended, would be Moderate. The main reasons for the
moderate rating are: (i)the design of the Project which will support existing programs with a
good track record in implementationand existing control mechanisms in MINEDand MAGFOR;
(ii)the benefits will betargeted onthe basis ofexisting, published, poverty andvulnerability
maps; for the school lunch program, the benefits will be universalwithin targeted areas, removing
the risk of mis-allocation; and for the seeds program, the selection criteria have been clearly
defined and will be communicated through local media, extension agents and municipal
governments; (iii)the relatively straightforward financing o f a small number o f contracts, (iv) the
prior experience of the implementing entities with bank financed projects; and (v) the close
supervision provided by the Bank Financial Management Specialist (see financial management
supervision plan below). The following table presents the risk assessment, as well as the risk
mitigating measures incorporated into the design of the Project and the financial management
implementationarrangements.

Risk        1I            RiskMitigating MeasuresIncorporated intoProject               Condition of
              K i n g   1/Design                                                        Negotiations,
                                                                                        Board or

                                                                                       IEffectiveness
                                                                                        (Y/N)?
Inherent Risk
Country       M t o S     See country issues above.
Level
Entity        S           MAGFOR and MINED will be the main implementing
Level                     agenciesfor this Project.MAGFOR andMINED have
                          experiencewith externally financed project.For this Project,
                          each implementingagencieswill utilize existingcapacity
                          within its Administrativeand Financeunit.
Project       M           The involvementof several implementingagencies                Effectiveness:
Level                     (MAGFOR, MINED, ENABAS and IDR) will imply                    Inter-
                          additional coordination.The Project envisions the signing of  institutional
                          inter-institutionalagreements amongthe various                agreements to
                          implementingagenciesto ensure better coordination.            obtainBankno
                                                                                        objection (and
                          The grant will support existingprograms inMINED and           to be included
                          MAGFOR, which have a goodtrack recordinimplementation inthe
                          andwill rely on existinginternalcontrolmechanisms.Also,       Operational
                          the grant has beenkept simple, with a limitednumberof         Manual).
                          paymentsanddisbursements, andwill be implementedby
                          agencieswhich have on-goingBanksupportedprojects.


                                                    40

                        Existing control systems: both programs have systems o f
                        verification alongthe various steps ofpurchase, storage,
                        transportation and distribution involving: arigorous systemto
                        account for goods along the supply chain including a series of
                        forms to be signedand countersigned,inspectorsat various
                        points, social control (school teachers/directorscommunity
                        leaders, farmers cooperatives andparents' association),
                        unannouncedspot checks as part ofthe regular supervision of
                        the PINE, and strict guidelines on storage and distribution.

                        The benefits will betargeted on the basis of existing,
                        published,poverty andvulnerability maps. For the school
                        lunchprogram,the benefitswill beuniversalwithin targeted
                        areas, removing the riskofmis-allocation. For the seeds
                        program, the selectioncriteria have beenclearly defined and
                        will be communicatedthrough local media, extensionagents
                        and municipal governments.
Control risk
Budgeting,    M         Project budget and accountingwill be registeredinthe
Accounting,             national system(SIGFA), andthe implementingentities
Internal                (MAGFOR andMINED)will use an existing complementary
Control                 systemto meet project reportingrequirements.
                        The grantwill support existingprograms inMINEDand
                        MAGFOR, which have a good track record in implementation
                        andwill rely on existing internal control mechanisms
                        The Project will preparean operationalmanual.                  Negotiations: Y
Funds Flow    L         The Project will use asingletreasuryaccount andpaymentto
                        suppliers, contractorsand consultantswill be madethrough
                        SIGFA.
Financial     M         The Project will utilize country systems and an existing
Reporting,              complementary system for financial reporting.                  Dated covenant
Auditing                                                                               for the
                        MAGFOR will contract externalauditors and furnishaudit         contracting of
                                                                                       the auditors
financial
manageme
nt Risk

Strengths and Weaknesses
Key actions have been defined and agreed with each of the participating entities to strengthen
financial management arrangements and address key weaknesses identified (detailed in the action
plan below). Key weaknesses are: (i) complexity of implementation arrangements with the
                                         the
intervention of multiple entities; and (ii) the short implementation period of the grant. However,
strengths include: (a) the use of country systems (SIGFA and CUT) which provide additional
control; and (b) the support to existing programs with good track record in implementation and
existing control mechanism.




                                                   41

                          Action                            Responsible              Completion Date"
                                                               Entity
1. Finalize the draft format of unaudited financial        MAGFOR             Completed
reports (IFRs).
2. Finalize draft audit TORSand short list.                MAGFOR             Completed
3. Finalize the draft financial management section o f the MAGFOR             Completed
project operational manual.
4. Finalize the implementation o fthe information          MAGFOR             By effectiveness
system inMINEDand the chart of account for the
Project (the chart o f account should segregatethe
retroactive financing).
5. Contract external auditors, based on short list        IMAGFOR           I 3 months after
satisfactory to the Bank.                                                     Effectiveness (dated covenant
                                                                              inthe legal agreement)

World Bank FinancialManagement Supervision Plan. A World Bank financial management
Specialist will perform a supervision mission prior to effectiveness to verify the implementation
o f the agreed financial management arrangements and the financial management system. After
effectiveness, the financial management Specialist will perform at least two supervision missions
during the implementation o f the proposed Project (one three months after effectiveness and the
other six months after effectiveness) which will include the review o f the effectiveness o f the
control system o f MINED and MAGFOR, and must review the audit report, and the financial
sections o fthe quarterly IFRs.




15 This column solely presents the estimated completion date, not an indication o f legal conditions.


                                                     42

                              Annex 5: ProcurementArrangements


A.       General
Procurement for the proposedProject would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004, revised in
October 2006; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated May 2004, revised in October 2006, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal
Agreement. The general description of various items under different expenditure category is
described below. For each contract to be financed by the Grant, the different procurement
methods or consultant selection methods, the need for prequalification, estimated costs, prior
review requirements, and time frame are agreed betweenthe Borrower and the Bank Project team
in the Procurement Plan. The length of the Project is expected to be only fifteen months and
thereforethe ProcurementPlan is not expectedto be updated.

Procurementof Goods: Goods procuredunder this Projectwould include: seeds, fertilizers, and
food products such as cooking oil, beans, corn, etc. In order to respond quickly to mitigation of
major adverse economic and social impacts resulting from the food shortage crisis in Nicaragua,
the procurement for this Project, which is being processed as an emergency operation under
OP/BP 8.0, will be done using Bank's established proceduresfor Procurement of Commodities,
and Direct Contracting.

Procurement of non-consulting services: The Project will finance reproduction of educational
materials under Shoppingproceduresusing Request for Quotationsapproved by the Bank.

Selectionof Consultants: The Projectwill finance consulting services from firms to carry out the
auditing of the Project and independent technical auditing to monitor delivery of goods to
beneficiaries. Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO
equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the
provisions ofparagraph2.7 of the ConsultantGuidelines.

Training: means reasonable expenditures incurred by the Recipient for the carrying out of
training activities under the Project, including reasonable costs of trainers' fees, travel and per
diem of trainers andtrainees, rental of training facilities and equipment andtraining materials.

Operational Costs: Project implementation related expenses such as utilities, office supplies,
cost of fuel for the transportation of goods, costs relatedto handling and storage of food products,
seeds and fertilizers, office vehicles maintenance, etc., which would be financed by the Project
would be procured using the implementing agency's administrative procedures which were
reviewedand found acceptable to the Bank.

B.      Assessmentof the agency's capacity to implementprocurement
Procurement activities will be carried out by the Ministry of Education (MINED) and by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry(MAGFOR). The RuralDevelopment Institution (IDR) will
purchase the fertilizers under supervision from MAGFOR. These agencies currently carry out
Bank-financedprojects and have adequate staff. MAGFOR as well as MINED have procurement
units well established within the institutions and are staffed with procurement officers and
assistants with adequate procurement experience. The Project Operational Manual will include
the procurementprocedures.




                                                 43

MINED will implement Component 1, For this emergency operation, because of the exceptional
situation of urgency to acquire food in the schools, the procurement methods will include
Procurementof Commodities. Through this procedure, the Ministry will acquire quotations from
a pool of pre-qualifiedproviders.

MAGFORwill implement component 2, which will finance the purchase of seeds and fertilizers
usingDirectcontracting, and Procurementof Commodities. Interms of procurementofthe seeds,
ENABAS purchases the seeds through an inter-institutionalcontract with MAGFOR, the Rural
Credit Fund (FCR), taking into account seeds providers, such as cooperatives, organizations and
privateproviderspre-qualifiedby the SeedDirectorateo fthe Agricultural Protectionand Sanitary
Agency (Direccibn General de Proteccibn y Sanidad Agropecuaria -DGPSA). Overall
administrationwill beunder the responsibilityofMAGFOR'sAdministrativeDirectorate.

In this context, MAGFOR will be responsible for supervising the implementation of all
procurement for the Project (including Component 2). In terms of procurement, MAGFOR has
performed satisfactorilyunder ongoing projects such as the Agricultural Technology project and
PRORURAL. Throughout the implementation of these two projects the staff at MAGFOR
acquiredsoundprocurement capacity.

An update of the existing assessment (carried out in 1999 and 2005) of the capacity of the
Implementing Agencies to implement the additional procurement actions for the Project was
carried out by a Bank Procurement Specialist during the appraisal mission (September 22-25,
2008). The updated assessment reviewed the organizational structure for implementing the
Project and the interactionbetweenthe Project's staffresponsible for procurement. The capacity
of ENABASwas not fully assessed, and since Direct Contractingis the mode ofprocurementthat
will be adopted for the procurement of seeds, prior review will be carried out for all contracts
awardedby ENABAS.

Mostofthe issueshisksconcerningthe procurement componentfor implementationofthe Project
have been identified and include the general low capacity of the agencies to monitor multiple
operations within various institutions effectively. Therefore, considering that the capacity of
Ministry staffto coordinatewith each other has historically beenweak, the overallprojectrisk for
procurement is high. To mitigatethis risk, the World Bank will supervise procurement activities
closely duringthe implementationperiod.Also, a firm will be hired as an independenttechnical
audit to monitorgoods deliveryto final beneficiaries.


                         Action                            Responsible              Completion Date16
                                                               Entity
1. Finalize the draft Procurement section ofthe Project  MAGFOR               Completed
operational manual.

C.        Procurement Plan
The Borrowerdevelopeda Procurement Planfor projectimplementationwhich provides the basis
for the procurement methods. This plan has been agreed between the Borrower and the Project
Team and will be available at the Bank intranet.It will also be availablein the Project'sdatabase
and inthe Bank's externalwebsite.




l6 This column solely presents the estimated completion date, not an indication of legal conditions.


                                                    44

D.       FrequencyofProcurementSupervision
In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment of the ImplementingAgency has recommendeda mid-term supervision missions to
visit the fieldto carry out postreviewofprocurement actions.




                                              45

  Attachment 1. Details of ProcurementArrangements involvinginternational competition.

  1.        Goods and non consultingservices.

  (a) Listof contract Packageswhich will be procured following Direct Contracting and Procurementof
  commodities:




                                                          -
                                         Direct           No   No            Prior            January  3.6 and 3.7
      Seeds.            Needs to be      contracting                                          2009     Procurement
                        broken into                                                                    Guidelines
                        various                                                                        ENABAS
                        contracts of                                                                   will procure
                        about                                                                          the seed.
                        US$160,000
                        each.                             -
02    Purchaseof        1,989,O 11.00    Procurement      No   No                   first two January  2.68 of
      Food products     Various          of                                         contracts 2009     Procurement
      suchas beans,     contracts.       Commodities                                and all            Guidelines-
      corn, cooking                                                                 contracts          MINED is
      oil, etc.                                                                     exceeding          incharge of
                                                                                                       this activity.
-                                                                          I ;:;ooo
03    Purchaseof        1,989,011.00     Procurement      No   No                   first two March    2.68 of
      Food products     Various          of                                         contracts 2009     Procurement
      such as beans,    contracts.       Commodities                                andall             Guidelines.
      corn, cooking                                                                 contracts          MINED is
      oil, etc.                                                                     exceeding          incharge of
                                                                                    US$                this activity.
-                                                         -                         200,000
04    Purchaseof        1,102,923 .OO    Procurement      No   No                   first two January  2.68 of
      Fertilizers.      Various          of                                         contracts 2009     Procurement
                        contracts.       Commodities                                and all            Guidelines.
                                                                                    contracts          IDRwill be
                                                                                    exceeding          incharge of
                                                                                    us$200,0           this activity
                                                                                    00                 supervised
                                                                                                       by
                                                                                                       MAGFOR.


  ProcurementThresholds:
  0   National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures must be used for the procurement of goods in
      contracts of more than US$50,000 and less than US$l50,000. The fvst 2 contracts will be subject to
      prior review.
  0   International Competitive Bidding (ICB) must be used for the procurement of goods in contracts of
      more than US$150,000 and all contractswill be subjectto prior review.
      All Direct Contracting will be subjectto prior review.
      For the Procurementof Commodities, the first 2 contracts and all contracts above US$200,000 will be
      subject to prior review.



                                                      46

2.       ConsultingServices.

(a) There will be only two contracts for consulting services from firms which would be financed by the
Project: (i)auditing o f the Project for an estimated amount o f US$8,000.00; and (ii)independent technical
auditing for monitoring the delivery o f goods to beneficiaries for an estimated amount o f US$50,000.00.
Both contracts would be subject to prior review by the Bank.

(b) Consultancy services and Single Source selection (regardless of the value) o f consulting firm for
assignments estimated to cost above US$lOO,OOO per contract and o f individuals for an estimated amount
o f more than US$35,000 will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

(c) Short lists composed entirely o f national consultants: Short lists o f consultants for services estimated to
cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants in
accordance with the provisions o fparagraph 2.7 o fthe Consultant Guidelines




                                                      47

                    Annex 6: Implementationand MonitoringArrangements


 Component 1:Integral School NutritionProgram(PINE)
 This section summarizesthe arrangements.Moredetails canbe foundinthe Operational Manual.

 I. FoodProcurement
 0 The PINEDirectorsdefine the procurement quantities and commodities based on their annual
   programming, the MINED-based budget and their priorities to prepare a food procurement
   proposal.
 0 PINE Management requests the Financial Management Office (MINED -DGAF) to confirm
   food purchase funds availability. This Office submits this request to MINED Budget
   Departmentto confirmfoodfunds availability.
 0 A Food Procurement Application is submitted to MINED Central Procurement Unit (UCA
   MINED) to preparethe BidDocuments(BD).
 0 The Legal Department reviews and prepares a Ministerial Decision to support the food
   procurement bidding process that is signed and delivered by the Minister of Education. The
   LegalDepartment finalizesthe MinisterialDecisionand submits it to UCA MINED to review
   technicalspecificationsfor the foodprocurement biddocuments.
 0 The Technical Committee meets to appoint a competitive bidding food procurement sub-
   committee and notifies the exchange trading post about the competitive biddingprocess. The
   Ministerial Decision is posted in newspapers and websites and includes the UCA MINED'S
   timetable.
 0 Upon completion bidding process, the Procurement Technical Committee writes a Bidding
   Report to award the contract for UCA MINED and MINED Legal Departments to start
   administrativecontract arrangements.

II. Receiptof FoodCommodities
 0  Suppliers selected as successfulbidders shall develop the FoodDelivery Schedule and provide
   a copy of this document to the Project's Technical Coordinator, including all relevant
    specificationsfor proper authorization.The Project's TechnicalCoordinatorprepares the Food
   ReceiptAuthorizationand submits it to the Warehouse Section.
 0 Once the Warehouse Chief (WC) and the Quality Control Unit (QCU) received the Food
   Delivery Schedule and the Food Receipt Authorizations, they authorize trucks to access PINE
   warehouse facilities to deliver food commodities.
 0 Food shall be inspected by the QCU in coordination with the WC; file samples of each
   commodityin each truck will be taken. Foodpackagingmust includedate of manufacture, date
   ofprocessinganduse-bydate andthe logo defined inthe BD.
 0 Upondelivery, food commodities shall be recorded and filed in bothmanual and computerized
   systems, in compliancewith authorizationreceivedbythe HeadOffice

 III.LaboratoryAnalysis
 0 The QCU shall supervise warehouse-basedfood commodityreceivedto ensure cleanliness, bag
   stowing, food quality, grain sampling, etc. Commodities from each truck will be sampled to
   ensure the product meetsall technical specificationsdefinedinthe BD.
 0 Samples shall be taken per lot and per supplier to laboratories once the commodity was
   delivered in the warehouse. In total, the sample size must be 10 percent out of the lot.
   Laboratoryanalysis results must be ready not later than 3 - 5 business days for grains and 10 -
    15 businessdays for oil, flour and cereals.



                                                48

  Laboratory analysis results must be compared with food consumption technical standards
  established by MINSA.
0 QCU shall prepare a Laboratory Analysis Results Report, which must be supported by the
  laboratory analysis results and compared with the food procurement specifications set forth in
  the BD, per supplier. This document shall be submitted to PINE Technical Coordinator. A
  Certificate of Conformity is submittedto UCA MINEDto start supplier payment arrangements.

I V Food Distribution
  In parallel with the delivery of food to PINE warehouses, the contracting for means of
  transportation by land and water should take place, on the basis o f a distribution proposal.
  PINE Management shall require the Financial Management Office (MINED -DGAF) to
  confirm available funds to transport food commodities. Once the food transportation technical
  specifications have been defined, the Food transportation application i s submitted to MINED
  Central Procurement Unit (UCA MINED). UCA MINED requests from the MINED Legal
  Department a Ministerial Decision in support of the food transportation bidding process. The
  Legal Department prepares the Ministerial Decision and submits it to UCA MINEDto review
  technical specifications for the food freight bid documents. The Technical Committee meets to
  appoint a competitive bidding food transportation sub-committee. The Request for Proposals
  and the Ministerial Decision are posted in newspapers and websites, including the timetable
  scheduled and established by UCA MINED. A notification is sent to winner bidders to start
  administrative contract arrangements.
  Upon awarding contractors, the Distribution Section shall plan the Food Dispatch Schedule,
  providing PINE Technical Coordinator with all relevant specifications for approval and notice
  to the Warehouse Staff.
0 The Warehouse Chief (WC) and the Quality Control Unit (QCU) shall authorize trucks to
  access PINE warehouse facilities, after inspection. Each truck driver shall produce his freight
  order and collect a warehouse entrance ticket. The freight order must match the Food
  Distribution Schedule. Once loaded, freight must be covered and protected under supervision
  from the QCU and the WC. The WC shall provide each truck driver with a warehouse form and
  delivery instructions, as well as notify the Head of Distribution of the expected time o f arrival
  of commodities to the points o f delivery.
0 PINE Head Office shall notify MINED municipal and departmental delegates of the food
  distribution, to ensure minimum local conditions to receive said commodities. MINED shall
  appoint an official responsible for receiving food commodities in each expected point of
  delivery. PINE Staff shall visit onsite points of delivery before distribution takes place to give
  notice of the food commodity arrival and check local storage conditions. Local PINE staff must
  guarantee the actual presence of the official responsible for receiving food commodities
  (MINED Official) upon delivery of said commodities. PINE Staff shall provide the official
  responsible for receiving food commodities with official school receipts and the annual control
  logbook or, by default, a receipt checklist (one per school).
0 In case of missing or incomplete cargo, the point of delivery receipt must not be signed by the
  official responsible for receiving food commodities at the point of delivery. Instead, a
  provisional receipt i s produced waiting for the missingcargo replenishment.
0 Upon acceptance of the food commodity by official responsible for receiving food commodities
  at the point of delivery, PINE official receipts shall be signed, sealed and delivered.
0 After officials responsible for receiving food commodities at the point of delivery, along with
  MINED municipal delegates, pedagogic advisors and school principals received satisfactorily
  food commodities in expected points of delivery, they collectively shall give notice to eligible
  schools to ensure commodities are taken out swiftly not later than five working days.




                                                 49

  PINE official receipts in schools must be duly filled out; that is, three identicalforms signed,
  sealedand delivered; the secondcopy form goes to the recipientschool while the originalform
  andthe first copy form go to PINEofficials.
  Field staff shall visit points of delivery onsite within 10 - 15 working days following the
  distribution,to verify food commodities are taken out actually by recipient schools and collect
  schoolreceipts.
  Zone Coordinators shall submit all (100 percent) receipts signed, sealed and indexed
  numericallyper municipalityanddepartmentto PINEHeadOffice.

V. SchoolMeal Monitoring and Follow-up
  Onsite visits use direct interviews with school principals/directors, teachers, parents, as
  appropriate. Performance indicatorsmeasuredinthisvisit are: FoodAssistance, Enrollmentand
  Attendance, FoodControlandManagement, and Community Participation.
  After completing the visit, hand out a document that contains main recommendations to
  improve the School Meal Project, as well as the assessment score and rating, which is:
  Excellent,Very Good, Good, Fair, andPoor.
  This is used to: (i)Evaluate the Project implementationin terms of the service quality; (ii)
  Evaluateparents' organizationand participation; (iii)Assess, strengthen and adjust Monitoring,
  Follow-upandControlmethodsand systems; and(iv) Analyzethe Programcost-effectiveness.
  Zone Coordinator Teams, technicians and social promoters shall be allocated for developing
  these activities to develop a work and visit plan, coordinate with local agents, organize
  logistics,andconduct assessments.

VI. Education Community Training
  Training the program staff is part of the activities undertaken by the Technical Supervisors.
  This requires planning a series of events, in light of the needs assessment prepared by the
  directors, school principals, andparentswho are membersofthe School FoodCommittees.

VII. Planningand Evaluating Activities
0 For internalpurposes, a timetableto planthe Project activities has been defined, startingwith
  the Project's Annual Plan of Operations (POA). Monthly plans are also prepared one week
  before the current month is over. Monthly plans per department are assembled from weekly
  reports planned by each officer every last business day of the week, in order to get acquainted
  with specific activities to be implemented the next week as part of the continuum of the
  MonthlyPlan, which inturn is linkedto the Annual Plan.

Component 2: Agro-Seeds Program

Seedspurchase, distributionand repayment
The Nicaraguan Basic Food Company (ENABAS), a decentralized agency responsible for
providingadequatepost-harvest storage and maintenance of grains, purchasesthe seeds through
an institutionalagreement with MAGFOR and the Rural Credit Fund(FCR) taking into account
seed providers, suchas cooperatives, organizations andprivateproducersregisteredwith the Seed
Directorateofthe AgriculturalProtectionand Sanitary Agency (Direccibn General de Proteccibn
y Sanidad Agropecuaria -DGPSA). Seed providersmust guarantee food safety, physical purity
andassessmentof germinationin accordance with seeds technicalregulationsandnorms.

ENABAS establishes direct communicationwith seed producers so as to negotiate prices and
delivery timetables. ENABAS buys the seeds according to the information provided by
MAGFOR regardingthe demand and availability of seeds in the market. This information is



                                               50

 recorded by the MAGFOR'S Seed Directorate. In the past, ENABAS bought the seeds and
 transported it to the selected municipalities using storage facilities previously authorized by
 MAGFOR. MAGFOR reimbursed ENABAS for the purchase of seeds upon receipt of duly
 documented purchase and delivery records. For the future agricultural cycles, MAGFOR will
 transfer the money to ENABASto buy seeds according to MAGFOR instructions.

 The seeds are providedto the beneficiaries as a loan valued accordingto market prices, which is
 to be repaid, in kind or cash, at a time which varies according to the agricultural cycle of each
 crop (maize: 6 months; sorghum and beans: 5 months). Payment in kindwill be valued at market
 prices, and stored by ENABASand sold on the regular markets or to other government programs.
 The money generated by the sale of surplus grain will be deposited in a revolving fund that will
 be usedto finance future agricultural cycles. These funds will be administered by the Rural Credit
 Fund(FCR) and regulatedby an institutional agreementbetween MAGFOR and the FCR.


     MAGFOR signs an institutionalagreement for the purchaseand distributionof seeds with ENABAS
     MAGFOR's Territorial Delegations Directorate (Direccidn de Delegaciones Territoriales) in
     accordance with its Department Delegations and prior identification of the beneficiaries by the
     NationalTechnicalCommittee (NTC) prepareaplantingforecast (proyeccibnde siembra) accordingto
     the demandfrom the territories.
     MAGFOR Seeds Directoratecommunicates to the SPAR National Committee (SNC) the availability
     of different varieties of seeds according to seeds producers' and seeds private providers' applications
     for certificationand from laboratory analysis results.
     Basedon the informationprovidedby the Seeds Directorate,the SPARNational Committee advises on
     the purchaseof seeds (volume, quality, and location).
     Basedon the SNC recommendations,ENABAS initiates negotiations with producers, buys the seeds
     ENABAS transport the seeds to the storage facilities in the municipalities according to the quantities
     indicatedby MAGFOR and approvedby the SNC. Eachdelivery carriedout by ENABAS is backedby
     a signed recordreceipt (remission general) bearingthe stamp from MAGFOR DepartmentDelegations
     at the time ofreceiptofthe seeds.
     ENABAS issues payment claims to MAGFOR accordingto the quantity of seedboughtandbackedby
     delivery receipts.
     MAGFOR reimburses ENABASuponapproval of MAGFOR's Financialand ManagementDirectorate
     (Direccidn Administrative y Financiera). In the future MAGFOR will transfer funds in advance to

I    ENABAS to purchaseseeds.

 Distribution:
 1. The National Technical Committee analyses seeds availability at private processing centers and
     preparesdistributionplanonbasisof seedvarieties requestedby the MAGFOR Delegates.
 2. MAGFOR communicates to the Departmental Delegates the amount of seeds assigned to each
     beneficiary,availability of seed and expecteddeliverytime.
 3.  One day before delivery, ENABAS communicates to the Territorial Delegates the timeframe for
     delivery to MAGFOR storage facilities(bodegas).
 4.  Truck drivers obtain a signed receipt for delivery with copies for the Territorial Delegation, ENABAS
     andthe Projectto keep a track recordofthe delivery.
 5.  MAGFOR Territorial Delegations deliver the seeds and inputs to the beneficiarieswho at the time of
     receipt must sign a Delivery Receipt and an I-owe-you in favor of the Rural Credit Fund with the
     specific amountthat needsto be pay for the inputs received.
 6.  With the funds received from the repayment of the loans, the Rural Credit Fund establishes a
     Revolving Fundthat will be used for purchasing certified seeds for future agriculturalcycles so as to
     encouragethe financialandproductionsustainabilityofthe system.




                                                     51

Fertilizerspurchase, distributionand repayment
As inthe case of seeds, the purchaseoffertilizer follows a similar procedure. MAGFOR signs an
institutional agreement with the Rural Development Institute (IDR) for the purchase and
distribution of inputs according to the specifications given by MAGFOR'SAgriculture Input
Directorate(Direccidn de Znsumos Agropecuarios). IDR has the necessarytechnical personnelas
well as stock facilitiesthroughout the countryto implement this activity. Inthe case that IDR can
not satisfy the demand for fertilizers, it then has to purchase it from other internationalproviders
in the country, however this would imply higher prices for the Project but it would guarantee
availability.IDR hastraditionallyfulfilled this role since its participationin the "KRII program",
(Programa de Foment0 de Granos Basicos) a Japanese funded program responsible for the
purchase and distribution of fertilizer since 1990.The IDR maintains direct communicationwith
input suppliers in the country in order to determine price, timeline for deliverables and
availabilityof inputs accordingto the demandsofthe Project.IDRestimatesthe cost ofthe inputs
and sends that information to MAGFOR. Once the price has been agreed, MAGFOR transfer
funds to the IDR to purchase the inputs. IDR buys the inputs by competitive shopping process
and places them in the storage facilities specified by MAGFOR in the selected municipalities.
Technicians from the SPAR distribute seeds and fertilizer to the beneficiarieswho must sign a
Receipt and an "I-owe-you" indicating the specific amount to be paid back to the Credit Fund
(FCR). The FCR will be in charge of administeringthe funds and setting up a revolvingfund to
finance future agricultural cycles. In the future and due to the sustainability of the system, the
FCR will transfer funds directly to IDR and ENABAS for purchasing seeds and inputs prior
authorizationfrom MAGFOR.

The loanshave a maturityor either 5 or 6 monthsaccordingto the vegetative cycle ofthe crop.In
the case of maize is 6 months, and inthe case of sorghum and beans is 5 months.The mechanism
to pay back the loan in kind (grains) will be regulated by MAGFOR in collaboration with
MunicipalityCommittees and local leaders (from the alcaldias) comprised of agencies from the
SPAR. They will determine the most logical routes to guarantee the collection and appropriate
storage of the grains. Some days before the harvest, SPAR technicians with the support of
producersandpromoterswill visit the beneficiariesandwill send"communiqu6s" to remindthem
the quantity of grainthat they needto deliver in order to pay the loan.Beneficiarieswill deliver
the grain at the same places where they received the technological package, for a previously
agreed quantity and a price equivalent to the price of grain in the local markets. The beneficiary
receives a signed document (receipt of payment) with copies sent to MAGFOR and the FCR.
MAGFORcommunicatesto ENABASthe quantity andtype of grainreceived andthen ENABAS
transports the grains to its closest storage facilities, it dries the grain, cleans it and storage it until
its commercializationincoordinationwith the FCR.

Inthe case of "in-kind" payment, the organizations or cooperatives representingthe beneficiaries
will needto guaranteethe same levels of food safety, physicalpurity, etc. as described inthe case
ofthe Seeds sub-component.

Training and TechnicalAssistance
MAGFOR and INTA will provide technical assistance and training. INTA and MAGFOR
extension agents will train local producers (promoters) who inturn provide TA to the rest of the
producers inthe area. The extension agents and promoters communicate to the beneficiariesthat
they have been selected to participate in the program based on the selection criteria established
for the program.Inthe first introductoryvisit, the promoters/extensionagents explainthe terms of
the credit, the advantagesof usingcertifiedseed, and how to useandmanagefertilizer to increase
yields. These training sessions are set up with different communities. Extension agents from
INTA belong to a Seed Technical Committee that monitorsthe full agricultural cycle, i.e. from


                                                    52

the preparation of the soil until harvest. INTA recommends the variety o f seeds to be used
according to the agro-ecological zone.

The strategy focuses on strengthening local skills of extension agents, promoters and
beneficiaries. The strategy is twofold: (i)training on agronomic techniques, use and management
of inputs, benefits of usingcertified seeds, production of certified seeds and grains appropriate for
sowing; and (ii)training on credit aspects, such as eligibility, terms and conditions; payment
schedule, marketing, business plans and group formation. The TA and training plan targets 252
extension agents in the departments of Matagalpa, Boaco, Jinotega and Nueva Segovia. Each
extension agent will train 12 local promoters and each promoter will train 10 beneficiaries
organized in working groups. The Basic Inputs Program (BIP) will provide TA and training to
30,190 small producers as follows:
(i)252technicians fromthe SPAR andprograms suchas FONDEAGROandFUNICA train
local promoters in agronomic techniques, use and management o f inputs and credit access, terms
and conditions
(ii)2,504 promoterstrainbeneficiarieselaborateworkandbusinessplansandconductonevisita
month per beneficiary and two group visits every month
(iii)30,190 small producers will be trained by the BIP

Credit
The Rural Credit Fund(FCR), an agricultural public sector agency, is in charge of administering
the funds received from the payment ofthe loans and settingupa revolving fundfor the financing
o f future agricultural cycles.

How it works. Beneficiaries will be receiving certified seeds and other inputs from ENABAS
and IDR under overall supervision o f MAGFOR. The average credit to the beneficiary for inputs
i s as much as US$90 and cover transport costs to the municipalities. The beneficiaries sign an "I-
owe-you" to the Rural Credit Fund(FCR) whereby they commit themselves to pay back the value
o f the loan at the end o f the cycle either incash or in kind. The value o f the input package (seeds
and fertilizers) is determinedby market prices at the moment o f receiving the package. In case of
in-kindre-payment, the calue of the loan will be converted into physical products (beans, maize
or sorghum) against the market prices a the moment of repayment.

Structure of the interest rate. The current system used by the FCR charges 9 percent interest
rate to a financial intermediary (FI) (either a cooperative or an association); inturn the FIcharges
a margin of 6-9 percent to the beneficiaries, so in the end the final cost to the client ranges
between 15 and 18 percent annual interest rate. As an example, the weighted average active rate
o f the National Financial System, as of August 2008, was 20.5 1 percent according to data from
the Central Bank. Studies by the FCR show that cooperatives should charge a 12 percent interest
annual rate, taking into account the inflation rate of 13.73 percent in August 2008. Under the
current Agro-Seeds Program (PAS) The Government made a strategic decision consistent with its
National Human Development Plan whereby the focus of The Government programs are to reach
out to small and medium producers and where food sovereignty and food security are national
priorities. It is also consistent with The Government's objective to provide services to those who
were "left behind", such us the beneficiaries under this current Project who have been denied
financial services before under formal credit schemes (lack of collateral, no track record as a
credit client, etc.). Thus, the credit strategy under the proposed Project is to eliminate the FI step,
and to charge a maximum interest annual rate to the clients that do not exceed 8 per cent. The
calculation was based on beneficiaries' surveys, estimates on the purchasing power and potential
(capacity) for repayment by clients as well as their willingness to pay. This approach however
takes into account the sustainability of the system and thus it should meet certain requirements,


                                                  53

such as: the interest rate to the final beneficiary(client) should not be negative in real terms; (ii)
the FCR needs to have enough spread to cover operating costs in order to guarantee the
sustainabilityof the financingscheme; and (iii)    the interest rate does not act as a disincentiveto
the mobilizationofresourcesfrom other financialinstitutions.

The temporary nature of the interest rate and exit strategy. The GFCRP acknowledges that
"subsidizing agricultural inputs, in the face of rising fertilizer, seed, and fuel prices, can help
prevent widespread exit from farmingby the poor, a scenario that would greatly aggravate food
problems at boththe productionand consumption ends." However, short-term subsidies needto
bewell targeted andtemporary. The Projectenvisions an exit strategythat includes:
0   Linking the present Projectto the up-comingadditional financing for the PTA-I1where the
    National Seeds System will be strengthened by moving from a seed buyingand distribution
    scheme to a market-based seed supply and demand scheme that will help to avoid problems
    relatedto inputsavailabilityandaccess inthe future.
0   The interest rate set for the operationwill be reassessedat the end ofthe project and a market
    rate will be incorporatedto guarantee the sustainabilityof the system and competitionin the
    market. The weighted average active rate of the National Financial System, as of August
    2008, was 20.5 percent according to data from the Central Bank. Studies by FCR show that
    cooperatives should charge a 12percent interest rate, taking into account the inflationrate of
    13.7 percent inAugust 2008.
0   Other financial intermediaries will then be brought in so as to open possibilities for more
    competitionamongFIs and avoidmarket distortions.
    There will bean assessmentofthe impactofthe subsidizedrate onthe markets.

Process. The FCR relies on the informationprovidedby the Agro-SeedsProgram(PAS) database
to determine the demand for credit based on the demand for seeds and fertilizer. The PAS
database also provides informationon the locationof the banks that the FCR does business with
andthat are closestto where the beneficiaries are. Ifthere are no nearby banks, then the funds can
be deposited in cooperatives that also work with the FCR.The FCRworks mostlywith accredited
cooperatives that already have a solidreputationfor recovery of funds. The FCR sings Letters of
Understanding with the cooperatives specifyingthe services, roles and responsibilitiesvis-a-vis
the FCR, namely transferringthe monies received from the beneficiariesto the FCR. The FCR
and the Project in general encourage the beneficiaries to pay in cash. The FCR will accept
payment in kind only under extreme circumstances (e.g. the producer can't sell the grain). The
FCR through its cooperatives' networkand under the Trainingand TechnicalAssistance Planfor
this Project provides training on marketing strategies, business plans, etc. to the beneficiaries.
Since the FCR does not have field presence, it relies on the technicians from the SPAR and the
cooperatives to provide such service. The technological package will include a Flyer with
information on access, use and terms and conditions of the credit as well as other relevant
informationfor the beneficiaries,such as marketingandassociability.

Roles and Responsibilities. The FCR i s responsiblefor managingthe loans usedfor the purchase
of seeds and inputs through its cooperative network. The FCR will carry out its operations
accordingto its internalrules andregulations but in accordance with the standardpracticeapplied
to financial intermediaries. MAGFOR signs an institutional agreement with the FCR to
administer the funds comingfrom the repaymentfor seeds and agriculturalinputs extendedto the
beneficiariesof the Projectthrough ENABAS and IDR. The FCR also is responsible for setting
up andmanaginga RevolvingFundthat would finance futureagriculturalcycles andwould allow
the FCRto transfer money directly to ENABAS and IDR for the purchase of agricultural inputs.




                                                  54

Through this agreement the FCR is responsible for managing reimbursement mechanisms
through bank accounts and/or cooperatives.

Incentivestopay back the credit in cash
    Have a creditrecord
0   Access to other financial services (credit andsavings) such as productiveor personalloans;
0   Receivetraining on technical, financial, marketingand associativematters
0   Possibilityto become member of amarketingcooperativeor a savings and loans association
0   Obtainbirth certificate and identity cardsince it is part ofthe selectionrequirements

Incase of default or late payments, FCR charges a 25 percent annual interest rate on the agreed 8
percent rate, i.e. those beneficiaries who are late in their payments will be charge a 4 percent
interest rate for late payment. These rates are based on common practice in Nicaragua. If
beneficiaries default, they are excluded from the program and lose access to the technological
package inthe future.

Incase of nonpayment due to adverse weather conditions (floods and droughts) the program has
established a Technical Committee that evaluates the losses. This Committee prepares a report
detailing the reasons for the default, estimates the recovery percentage and based on this
information it establishes the amount to be paid back by the beneficiary. The Committee is
comprised by a representative from MAGFOR and/or INTA, a local technician and a local leader
who is appointed by the community. The Committee i s coordinated by the Territorial
Departmental Delegate from MAGFOR. A representative of the FCR will be appointed on as
needed basis inthe case of default in order to assessthe cost to the portfolio and/or penalties.

The experience so far. During the first planting cycle 2008/2009 (April-May), the PAS
distributeda total of 24,009 qq. of seeds (maize, white sorghum and beans) among 54,435 small
producers. The cost of distributing the seeds was about US$1,8M.The operation followed the
same strategy that is beingproposed under this Project, i.e., seeds and inputs as a credit to be paid
in kind and/or in cash, with an 8 percent annual interest rate, with 4-5 months maturity period
accordingto the specific vegetative cycle of the grain. By early September 2008 and accordingto
the Territorial Delegation Records, producers had repaid a total of US$43,589 mostly in cash.
According to the FCR, 65 percent of the beneficiaries from the first planting season have paid
back their loans in kind, and 35 percent have paid in cash. It is expected that the bulk o f
repayments will take place duringthe period October-December 2008.

Key Features of the Rural Credit Fund (FCR)
The Government of Nicaragua establishedthe Rural Credit Fund(FCR) in 1998 to provide credit to small
and medium size agricultural producers. The FCR channels its funds through cooperatives and other
microfinance institutions. The FCR has the necessary human resources to supervise field operations in
collaboration with MAGFOR and to register credit flows in its own financial system. The FCR has a
network of 124 institutions nationwide that work with small producers' associations and cooperatives
locatedin or near the Project area. The FCR encouragesthe participationand provides services to women
cooperatives thought its "Women Development Program" and the institutional strengthening of their
organizationshooperatives through solidarity groups. During the first quarter of 2008, the FCR served
4,132 clients, of which 33 percent were women. The FCR target group comprises the most vulnerable
peoples inthe country with the highest poverty rates, mainly rural women, indigenous and afro-descendent
populations.It evaluates risks and carries out monitoring and evaluationof its activities throughtwo main
units: the Risk EvaluationUnit and the Financial Services Unit. For this specific Project, the FCR will
exclude from futurecredits those beneficiaries who do not pay back the loans.




                                                     55

                         Annex 7: Environmentaland Social Safeguards


Environmentaland Social Safeguards

This Annex describes how the proposedProjecttriggers environmentaland social safeguards, and
the Government strategy for completing environmental management, integrated pest
management, and indigenous peoples plans to comply with Bank's safeguards policy
requirements. OP/BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment, OP 4.09 Pest Management and OP 4.10
Indigenous Peoples are the Bank safeguard policies that apply to this operation. The
Environmental Screening Category for this Project is B, with limited impact. An Environmental
Management Plan (EMP), a Pest Management Framework (PMF) and an Indigenous Peoples
Plan (IPP) will be preparedto ensure that the three safeguard policies are adequately dealt with
during project implementation. Once finalized, all three plans (EMP, PMF, and IPP) will be
integratedinto the OperationalManual of the proposedProject.

The Project is expected to have positive social and environmental impacts for the target
communities and their immediate environment. Component 1 of the Project would cover 52
municipalities in eight departments (Esteli, Chinandega, Leon, Boaco, Chontales, Matagalpa,
M A S y Rio San Juan) and Component 2 of the Project would cover four departments
(Matagalpa, Jinotega, Nueva Segoviaand Boaco). This Project area does not include territories of
the North Atlantic region that were devastated by Hurricane Felix". Beneficiaries in these
departmentsface critical risksinterms iftheir nutrition and food security, and the Project aims at
mitigatingthe impact of the food price increase on their humancapital and productive assets

A. OP 4.01 EnvironmentalAssessment Policy

The Project is considered Category `B', partial assessment for environmental management
(limited impact).

The Project. Component 1 of the Project would support the Integral School Nutrition Program,
and does not trigger OP/BP 4.01. Component 2 of the Project would support the Agro-Seeds
Program(PAS) andtriggers the safeguardpolicy on environmentalassessment (OP 4.01).

The PAS program involves the distribution of certified seeds and fertilizer and the provision of
agricultural extension services to 30,190 small producers with up to 3.5 hectares of land. The
program aims at encouragingthe use of certified seeds and fertilizer by beneficiaries in order to
improve their agricultural production. It also aims at promoting sustainable agricultural practice,
through the technical assistance provided by INTA. The emphasis on quality seeds is expectedto
contribute to minimizing or mitigating the impacts of unsustainable and inappropriate use of
harmful pesticides. The Projectdoes not finance any works. All areas to be cultivated are existing
agricultural fields and no new land will be brought under cultivation.

This Component will be implementedin four departments: Matagalpa, Jinotega, Nueva Segovia
and Boaco'*. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAGFOR) and the Nicaraguan
Agricultural Technology Institute(INTA) are active inthese four departments.


"Hurricane  Felixaffected areas are assistedby the WorldBank'sNicaraguaHurricane Felixemergency
recovery project.
  Additionalareas of the Atlantic Coast inclose proximityto these four departmentsmight be includedin
the Project.


                                                   56

The Potential Environmental Risk. The potential environmental risk associated with this
Project stems from its trigger of pest management policy during seeds multiplication and
collection of grains by ENABAS for payment of the credit by beneficiaries. Key environmental
issues in this Project may include but are not limited to: (i)potential use of environmentally
harmful pesticides to control pests during planting (as classified by the World Health
Organization); and (ii)inappropriate post-harvest management of grains that may involve
improper storage and improper use of fungicides and other pesticidesto keep seed quality.

Existing Legal and Institutional Framework. Environmental management in Nicaragua is
legally governed by the General Environmental and Natural Resources Law (1996) and the
Organization, Competenciesand Responsibilitiesfor the Executive Power Law (1998). The EMP
for this emergency Project will be based on the environmental assessment conducted for the
Bank-financed Second Agricultural Technology Project (PTA-I1 Environmental Assessment,
June to August 2005"). Responsibility for implementation of environmentally sustainable and
sound management practices and monitoring and evaluation (M&E) on safe practices lies with
MAGFOR with technical assistance provided by sector agencies such as INTA and municipal
environmental management units inrespectivedecentralizedareas.

Strategy for Completing the Environmental Management Plan (EMP). The EMP that is
being prepared by the Government will address environment and pest management issues and
will include, but not be limited to, the following specifications*':
    Project-funded activities will not be carried out or expanded into environmentally sensitive
    areas such as protectedareas, national parks, or disputedareas;
    Promoting cultivation of seeds and use of fertilizer will only occur on existing agricultural
    land and will not put additional pressureon naturalresources andbiodiversity;
0   Seeds and fertilizer will not be provided to individuals or producer organizations that would
    deforest native forests or encourage roadconstructionwithin protectedhabitats, use forbidden
    pesticides, or cause soil erosion due to cultivation on steep slopes; and
    Budgetary requirements for implementation and monitoring and evaluation (M&E) will be
    included in the EMP. During implementation, MAGFOR would strengthen its M&E and
    follow-up mitigation capacity as requiredinconsultationwith the Bank.

Calendar for Completion of EMP. Since the Project is being processed under OP 8.00,
EmergencyResponse Operations, under the umbrella of the FrameworkDocument for the Global
Food Crisis Response Program, and in accordance with the exception for OP 4.01, paragraph 12,
the preparation and disclosure of the EMP will take place after Grant approval but before the
distribution of the seeds financed by the Project.

B. OP 4.09 Pest ManapementPolicv:

Component 1 does not trigger the Pest Management safeguard policy (OP4.09), but Component
2, which focuses on the distribution of certified seeds and fertilizer, triggers the OP4.09.

The Potential Environmental Risk. Even though the proposed Project would not finance the
direct purchase of pesticides, the pest management policy is triggered, because activities could


19MAGFOR(2005), EvaluacibnAmbiental -Proyecto de TecnologiaAgropecuaria enApoyo a1
PRORURAL. By C.A. Espinozay E.Ramirez, Managua, Nicaragua.
20The EMPwill draw from the environmentalassessmentconductedfor the Bank-financedSecond
AgriculturalTechnology Project:MAGFOR(2005). Evaluacibn Ambiental -Proyecto de Tecnologia
Agropecuaria enApoyo a1PRORURAL. Por C.A. Espinozay E. Ramirez, Managua, Nicaragua.


                                                  57

result in an increaseduse of pesticides during the growing season and in post-harvest handling
and grain storage. The fact that beneficiaries can repay their credit in grains could leadto the use
of pesticides infields or storage.

Strategy for Completing the Pest Management Plan. A Pest Management Framework (PMF)
i s being prepared, which will promote a strategy that includes all aspects of integrated pest
management and advocates biological and environmental methods of controlling pests and
diseases that reduces the reliance on synthetic chemical pesticides. It promotes the use of pest
resistantholerant and adapted varieties of the three selected grain crops (maize, sorghum, and
beans) that are targeted by this Project, and will include guidelines on permissibleagrochemicals
for use in field crop production, during postharvest processingand handling, and in disinfection
of farm storage facilities. The seeds distributed by this Project will be accompanied with flyer
(called Morralito inNicaragua) on safe pesticide use, already provided to beneficiary farmers of
other agricultural projects.Itwill also provide guidanceon personalprotection procedures.

INTA's and MAGFOR's integratedpest management plans are consistent with the World Bank's
integrated pest management policies and operative procedures.The focus is to avoid the use and
promotion of dangerous agrochemicals and encouraging the adoption of sustainable and
integratedpest management techniques to control pests (MIP INTA 2005b).

The Pest Management Framework (PMF) will draw from the IntegratedPest Management Plan
(IPMP) preparedfor the PTA-I1Project.

The following elementshave been agreed with the Government:
(a) In cases where pesticides are used either in the field or in storage, it will be done in
    accordance with the permissible pesticide list provided by the WHO and FA0 (Guidelines for
    PesticideClassification andUsage), as well as relevantnational regulations;
(b) The use and handling of pesticide will follow standard good agronomic practices: use of
    precautionary and safe application procedures including protective gear in application and
    training of applicators and where needed; use of pesticides in appropriate quantities, and
    under the supervision and technical assistance from the technicians in the field. The amount
    of pesticides used will follow the rules and regulations established under the current national
     laws;
(c) The government will share a copy of the flyer includedwith the fertilizer package (Morralito)
     for World Bank's review prior to distribution;
(d) The PMF will be finalized beforethe distribution of seeds financed by this Project.

Inaddition, as part ofthe Project's evaluationpackage, MAGFORwill provide a written account
of the proceduresusedfor pest managementof grains during the previousplanting season.

DescriptionofInstitutionalResponsibilities.
0   MAGFOR, as the implementingagency has final oversightresponsibility, interalia for:
    o providing training in safe transport, handling, and application of agrochemicals while
         advocating integrated crop management and integrated pest management (ICM and
         integratedpest management) practices
    o beingthe sole certifier of seed quality (includesanalysis onthe genetic purity of seeds).
    o carrying out frequent inspections of ENABAS to guarantee compliance with standards
         and regulationsregarding status of the facilities and the use of chemicals for preservation
         of the grains (through the Direccidn General de Proteccidn y Sanidad Agropecuaria
         (DGPSA)).



                                                 58

    MAGFOR will continue to register private and cooperative providers of agrochemicals and
    other inputsand authorize them to sell these agrochemicals/products. There is a list available
    with 32 approved products that are compiled by MAGFORlINTA indicating the safe use and
    application of these products according to the present laws and norms inthe country. There is
    no deviation from the WHO list, and the list is incompliance with OP4.09.
    INTA, as the national agency responsible for integrated pest management, is responsible for
    guaranteeing compliance with integrated pest management norms. In the cases where INTA
    does not have technicians assigned in a given area, this responsibility will be undertaken by
    MAGFOR;
    MAGFOR and INTA havejoint responsibility in guaranteeing the training, monitoring and
    supervision of the technical assistance provided to the beneficiaries under the Project in
    relationto the use and appropriate management of pesticides.
    ENABAS is responsible for providing adequate post-harvest storage and maintenance of
    grains. According to technical norms, the storage of grains will be done with a maximum of
    10 percent of humidity in order to guaranteethe good quality of the grain as well as to avoid
    any potential infections. ENABASwill not be engaged inany of the monitoring of safeguards
    related activities as it remains the sole responsibility of MAGFOR.

Calendar for Completing the PMF. Since the Project is being processed under OP 8.00,
Emergency Response Operations, under the umbrella of the Framework Document for the Global
Food Crisis Response Program, and in accordance with the exception for OP 4.01, paragraph 12,
the preparation and disclosure of the PMF will take place after Grant approval but before the
distribution of the seeds financed by the Project.


C. OP 4.10 IndigenousPeoplesPolicy

OPBP 4.10 on Indigenous Peoples applies to Component 1and Component 2 o fthe Project.

Background on World Bank Policy on Indigenous Peoples. In compliance with the World
Bank OP 4.10 the term "indigenous peoples, is used in a generic sense to refer to a distinct,
vulnerable, social and cultural group possessingthe following characteristics invarying degrees:
(a) self-identification as members of a distinct indigenous cultural group and recognition of this
    identityby others;
(b) collective attachment to geographically distinct habitats or ancestral territories in the Project
    area and to the naturalresources inthese habitats and territories;
(c) customary cultural, economic, social or political institutions that are separate from those of
    the dominant society and culture; and
(d) an indigenous language, often differentfrom the official languageofthe country or region."

This policy contributes to the Bank's mission of poverty reduction and sustainable development
by ensuringthat the development process fully respects the dignity, human rights, economies and
cultures of Indigenous Peoples. In accordance with this policy measures will be adopted to: (a)
avoid potentially adverse effects on Indigenous People's communities; or (b) when avoidance is
not feasible, minimize, mitigate, or compensate for such effects. This Project is also designed to
ensure that indigenous people receive social and economic benefits that are culturally appropriate
and gender and inter-generationally inclusive. Through the distribution of seeds and fertilizer, the
Project will promote access to traditional seeds o f crops that have been cultivated by vulnerable
communities for generations. By enhancing access to certified cultivars o f such grain crops
(maize, beans and sorghum), it will also improve the nutritional value of the food produced, and



                                                  59

hence may also contribute to improved nutritional status of children and pregnant mothers in the
vulnerable communities. The Project does not introduce non traditional crops or promote crop
diversification to produce new products and access new markets. As designed, the Project
addresses the needs of the participants in a culturally appropriate manner, and does not expose
them to potential additional risks (both in the field and in cooking or handling). Project
implementationsteps consist of establishing a virtuous relationshipbetween demands of potential
beneficiaries and public interventions.

Legaland InstitutionalArrangementsin Nicaragua. The current Nicaraguan legal framework
includes consideration of social and environmental issues, and will be an integral part o f the
actions to be carried out under the Project. Other laws that are relevant for the current Project are
the Law for the Conservation to Foster Sustainable Development of Forestry and Law N445 for
the Communal Property of Indigenous and Ethnic Communities of the Atlantic Coast, Bocay,
Coco and Indio Maize Rivers, promulgatedon December 19,2002.

Socio-Cultural and Historical Context. Nicaragua's population is unevenly distributed. The
Pacific and Central Regions gather about the 45 per cent of total territory and about 88 percent of
population while the Atlantic Region comprises the 55 per cent of the territory and only the 12
percent of the population2'. Nicaragua is a multiethnic and multicultural nation. About 9 per cent
of the total population belongs to an indigenous group. Officially, there are 9 indigenous groups,
five ofwhich live inthe Atlantic Region(Miskito, Mayanga, Ramas, Creoles and Garifunas), four
inthe Pacific and Central regions, and inthe northernpart (Cacaoperas, Nahuatl, Chorotega, and
Hokan Xiu). The Atlantic Region, which embodies the autonomous regions o f Northern Atlantic
(RAANand Southern Atlantic RAAS) and SanJuan, is the most cultural and ethnically diverse.
The Miskito, Sumo-Mayanga and Rama are the prevalent ethnic groups ranking for 35 percent,
3.0 percent and 0.3 percent respectively.22There i s a correlation between poverty and ethnicity.
About 70 per cent of Miskitos, which account for most of indigenous peoples, are poor, while 43
per cent ofthe rest ofthe populationis not considered poor.23

There is historical evidence of the use and cultivation of the grain crops financed by the Project
by the multiethnic and multicultural groups mentioned above: corn and beans are within the
centers oftheir respective origins inthe biodiversity corridor of Meso- and Central America while
African landraces and varieties of sorghum were introduced during the Spanish era. The Project
as a whole through its school feeding program and provision of agricultural inputsaims to benefit
(directly as in the case of Component 1 and indirectly in the case o f Component 2) indigenous
communities who may have a collective attachment to ancestral territories inthe Project area. By
improving access to good quality seeds of traditional crops, thereby increasing levels of
production through the use o f certified seeds and reducing land and soil degradation by
judicious use of fertilizer and other integrated natural resource management techniques, these
communities would be able to continue cultivation and reliance for food and marketing on their
ancestral lands.

The Project. Component 1, which supports the Integral School Nutrition program (PINE), funds
activities inthe RAAS and hence triggers OP 4.10. Component 2, which supports the PAS, funds


21Mary LisbethGonzhlez.2000. Qualitative Analysis of Poverty and SocialExclusionand Social
Assessment for Agricultural TechnologicalProject. World Bank.
22OPS. EstudioComparativo entre 10s PueblosIndigenasMayangay Miskitoy la ComunidadEtnica
Creole en 10s Municipios de Puerto Cabezay Bonanza.Web site.
23OPS. 2004. Evaluaci6nNacionalde Decenio de Saludde 10s PueblosIndigenasy Comunidades
Afiocaribes de Nicaragua (1995-2004). OPS.Nicaragua.


                                                  60

activities intwo departments (Jinotega and Matagalpa) which count with indigenous populations,
and hence.


0    Component 1 targets all children attending public primary schools and pre-schools in the
     areas of interventions. Hence, children from indigenous populations are explicitly targeted by
     the program. The PINE has been adaptedto the indigenous populations for several years, and
     the program supports specific training efforts in the MAS, which are adapted to local
     cultures and traditions.


0    Component 2 does not explicitly target indigenous populations, but will include indigenous
     beneficiaries if they meet the program's criteria for selection. In Jinotega, the proposed
     Project is not expected to benefit members of indigenous communities, as they live in very
     isolated territories, with limited physical infrastructure which hinders access to banks or
     cooperatives (where credit could be paid back) and distribution centers (where seeds and
     fertilizers could be picked up) (Box 5 provides further details). Furthermore, as these
     communities have been affected by repeated disasters, the government, donors and NGOs
     have organized their assistance through other emergency programs which respond to their
     short-term needs by delivering food, goods and services in the form of donations. These
     programs include (i) provision of rice seeds and agricultural inputs through the Productive
                           the
     Food Program (PPA); and (ii)the provision by the World Food Program of food and basic
     grains, vegetables, and assistance to improve the management of plots. In Matagalpa, where
    the Nahuatl and Matagalpa indigenous communities are more integrated, beneficiaries may
    well be among the small producers that are positioned to benefit from the distribution of
     certified seeds and other inputs as part of the PAS, ifthey meet the criteria of selection set out
     by the program. These beneficiaries would then be expected to be very similar to other
     beneficiaries interms of their agricultural practice.

Box 7.1: Socio-economic characteristics of the Indigenous Peoples of Jinotegaz4.

In Jinotega, indigenous populations live in the Indigenous Territories of the Alto Coco. The Indigenous
Territories of the Alto Coco cover an area of 5,235 km2, approximately 15Okm from the Wiwili
municipality and 200km from the Waspam Rio Coco municipality. It is located within the BOSAWAS
Biosphere Reserve and it comprises the largest forest area in the country. The World Bank is supporting
efforts to protect the Biosphere of BOSAWAS through the CORAZON Project and the Agricultural
Technologic Project I1(PTA-II)25.

40 per cent ofthe indigenouspopulationofJinotega is locatedinthe municipality o fSunJose deBocay and
60 percent in the Wiwili municipality. These municipalities are comprised of 51 indigenous communities
and farmhouses (caserios) with their own Miskitu and Mayangna languages. The Miskitos and Mayangnas
represent 30 and 21 communities respectively. The total population is 14,383 comprised of 2,788 families;
o f which 60 per cent represent young people between 16 and 25 years of age and 56 per cent of the total
populationare women (7,284 male & 7,099 women). Twenty-one percent ofthe populationis younger than
10 years old and 60.3 per cent attend primary school. Ninety percent of the population carries out
subsistence agriculture and the remaining ten percent are involved in education, health and marketing
economic activitiesz6.


24MAGFOR (2005). EvaluacibnSocial. Proyecto de TecnologiaAgropecuaria IIen Apoyo a1
PRORURAL. Managua, Nicaragua. September 2005.
25The objectiveofthe CORAZONproject is to consolidatethe managementandprotectiono fNicaragua's
and Honduras' Trans-frontierBiosphereReserve "Coraz6n de Corredor Biol6gico Mesoamericano".
26MAGFOR, Policy and PlanningDirectorate.Internalcommunicationprovidedfor the preparationofthe
presentproject, Managua, Nicaragua September 2008, basedon municipaliy census and documentation
from "Centro Humbolt", December2007.


                                                   61

Agricultureis a family activity carriedout on communallands, with simple tools andno or very little inputs
other than family labor. The main crops produced are basic grain crops (beans, rice and maize) as well as
root crops,tubers andrnusaceas (cassava, quequisque, malaqnga,bananas, andplantains).

Miskito communities traditionally do not plow, even with ox carts. Instead, they till the soil using hoes.
They tend to combine shifting agriculture with hunting, gathering and fishing. Indigenous communities
have traditionally managed their natural resources and have been able to maintain their forests, but
population growth, coupled with increasing perceived material needs, have led them to sometimes
disregardtheir oldcustoms andto extract resources inanon-sustainablemanner.

Women in Miskito communities have traditionally been very active in community affairs, having a
recognized influence in organizations such as the Council of Elders. In contrast, women in Muyanga
communities tend to play a secondary role in social organizations. Women play an active role in all
productioncycles.

Agreements and Calendar for Completingthe IPP. The Borrower will prepare an Indigenous
Peoples Plan (IPP) that will be completed, consulted on, and disclosed prior to the next delivery
of school lunches. For Component 1, the purpose of the IPP is to ensurethat indigenous children
have access to school lunches in a way that is culturallyappropriate, which will help ensure that
they benefit fully from the PINE program. The IPP will include: a description of the indigenous
groups in the RAAS, a review of the traditional diets of the various indigenous groups served, a
description of how indigenous groups are consulted regarding participation in the program,
whether any changes in content or delivery mechanisms are required to ensure that indigenous
children are comfortable in partaking of the lunches. For Component 2, the IPP will include
further details on the indigenous people who could benefit from the Project, on the justification
for not explicitly targeting indigenous peoples in the departments of the program, and explain
how the program is relevant for these communities, and respectful of their traditions and
practices.The IPPwill be consultedwith key stakeholders, including the RegionalCouncil for the
RAAS, and anthropologists and researcherswith expertise inthe indigenouspopulationsliving in
the area.

D.Disclosureof Safepuard Documentsand calendar for urocessiw.
Since the Project is beingprocessedunder OP 8.00, Emergency RecoveryAssistance, preparation
and disclosure ofthe EMP, PMF, and IPPwould be done inaccordance with OP 4.01, para. 12.
The EMP and PMF will be completed, consulted, and disseminated prior to the next round of
seed distribution. The draft plans will be sent to key stakeholders and posted on MAGFOR's
website, with a period of at least 5 days prior to the finalization of the EMP and PMF.
Afterwards, the final versions will be publishedonthe MAGFOR website.
The IPP will be prepared, consulted, finalized, and disseminated prior to the next delivery of
school lunches.A draft of the plan will be sent to key stakeholders, including IndigenousLeaders
or Organizations representing the relevant indigenous communities in the Project area, and
published on MAGFOR and MINED'Swebsite, where the public will have one month to
comment prior to the finalization of the plan. Afterwards, the final version will be published on
the MAGFORandMINEDwebsite.




                                                  62

                           Annex 8: Economic and FinancialAnalysis


Background

Nicaragua is unlikely to meet the Millennium Development targets of reducing chronic
malnutrition and achieving universal primary enrollment. Strategies to reach these goals are
interlinked.Nicaragua has among the highest repetition and dropout rates inthe region, leadingto
low primary completion rate: one out of three students repeats first grade, only 69 percent
complete primary school and of those who do complete only 43 percent do so within six years.
Learning achievements still remain disappointing. Chronic malnutrition remains very high, with
about one in every five children under five years sufferingfrom growth retardation (for extremely
poor children, this ratio i s one in three). These children enter preschool and primary education
with high deficiencies, which contribute to the educational challenges described earlier. Low
educational achievement in turn contributes to perpetuating poverty. Tackling nutrition and other
causes o f low learning achievements remains a key requirement for Nicaragua to reach its
development goals.

Component 1: The IntegralProgramof SchoolNutrition

Sector Policy   -Theprogram providesschool lunchesto allchildren        in public pre-primary and
primary schools. Its objectives are to increase the intake of nutritive and fortified food amongst
children of pre-school and primary school age, increase school attendance, decrease dropouts in
preschools and primary schools, and strengthen community participation and the adoption of
good feeding and sanitary practices in public and community preschools and primary schools.
The program objectives and design are consistent with international experience which reveal that
school nutrition programs, when well-designed and targeted, can have a positive impact on
nutritional status, on school attendance and performance.

The program, which has been operational for 10 years, is part of the regular activities o f the
Ministry of Education, and funded both by national resources and by grants from bilateral and
multilateral donors and NGOs. The recent steep rise in food (and fuel) prices in Nicaragua has
raised the cost of the program, which may result in cutbacks to coverage. Lack o f school lunches
could result in increased drop-outs, lower enrolment, and/or lower attendance, especially among
poor children.

This Project, combined with the support provided by the World Food Program, would ensure the
coverage o f all children in municipalities that exhibit high or very high food insecurity and/or
high or severe poverty (see Annex 1) for the first half of the coming academic year. This would
ensure that the poorest children, which are most at risk, would be protected for the near future,
and would hence prevent irreversible losses in human capital.

Target beneficiarygroups - The activities supported by this operation target children in public
pre-schools and primary schools in selected municipalities. This represents around 263,000
children 5 to 12 years o f age, who attend circa 4,000 schools, in 52 municipalities with high food
insecurity or poverty (see Annex 1).

Evaluations have demonstrated the effectiveness of targeting and pro-poor incidence of the
program. A recent analysis o f social spendingshows it is one of the most progressive programs in
Nicaragua, with one o f the highest concentration indexof the country's programs. At the national




                                                 63

level, children from the three lowest quintiles receive more than 75 percent of PINE'Sbenefits27.
The targeting, and hence impact, of the proposed operation is expected to be even higher as the
municipalities selectedpresent greater incidence of poverty. Recent simulations by the IMF show
that school nutrition is significantly more cost-effective at reaching the poor than price subsidies
or changes in import tariffs, since it is better targeted and more progressive28.

Benefits and costs - The strongest benefit from the school nutrition program is its impact on
maintaining attendance and reducing drop out, and to a lesser extent on learning. Evidence from
the recent coffee crisis inNicaragua demonstrated the ability of the school nutrition program to
retain children in school in times of crisis2'. Similar results are found in various international
studies. Increases in enrollment of up to 14 percent and increases o f up to 36 percent in
attendance were reported in studies of programs in Bangladesh Burkina Faso, Malawi, South
Africa and Jamaica. School health and nutrition programs are also relatively cost-effective
compared with other public health interventions3'.

The current unit cost o f food ingredientscontained in a school meal is US$0.16, with ingredients
being procured on a competitive basis in the national market. In addition, the estimated
transportation and administrative costs for this program are estimated at circa 12 percent of the
total cost (with transportation services procuredat market prices). The cost o f food preparation is
born by the communities, parents and teachers.

Fiscal Sustainability Expenditureson the program represent the equivalent o f 6.6 percent of
                        -
the Government's primary education spending or about 2.4 percent of the total education budget
in 2005. The program has benefitedfrom the support of various donor agencies (including the
World Food Program, the American-Nicaraguan Foundation, as well as a group of bilateral
donors who provide general support to the Ministry for its overall programs). The Government is
expected to sustain the Integral School Nutrition Program as nutrition interventions are a core
priority of the National Human Development Plan and the National Food and Nutrition Security
Policy. Further, the Government is trying to reduce the unit cost of food through a planned
decentralization of the management o fthe PINE to regional bodies and local purchase of food.

Component 2: Distributionof Certified Seeds and Fertilizer

Sector Policy Agricultural productivity differences are large inNicaragua, especially between
                 -
different producer sizes and regions. Large agricultural producers display productivity levels that
are more than six times higher than among small producers. In Nicaragua, the utilization of
agricultural inputs is generally low with large differences between types of producers. Only 10
percent o f all producers use certified seeds, 6 percent use organic fertilizers, 37 percent use
chemical fertilizers, and 67 percent use pesticides. Utilization rates are significantly lower among
small producers and inpoorer

The policy framework for the sector is given in the National Human Development Plan, which
accords a high priority to utilizing agricultural inputs, such as certified seeds, organic and
chemical fertilizers and pesticides, with the aim of boostingproductivity



"

''Masonet
'*WorldBankMonetaryFund(2008)REO-
               (2008), PovertyAssessment, Volume 1, page 108.PINEhas a concentration index of -20.
  International                               RisingFoodPricesand VulnerableHouseholds.Draft.
            al. (2004).
30See Ahmed (2004), DelRoss0 (1999) andJukes (2008).
31World Bank,Nicaragua PovertyAssessment 2008.


                                                    64

Budgetary constraints, however, have prevented the Government from making substantial
allocations for the Agro-Seeds Program (PAS). In 2008, the budgetary allocation was only
US$261,000. The proposedProjectwill allowthe PASto maintaina prominent, short termrole in
supplyingseed andfertilizer to farmers that currentlyface problemsaccessingquality inputs.

Target beneficiaries    - As presented   in Annex 1, the program targets circa 31,600 small
producers in areas which are particularly affected by the recent crisis, but still present large,
untapped, productionpotential. Within these areas, small producers with access to limited plots
(under 3.5 hectares) butwith experience inbasic grainproduction,have beenselected, as they are
the most vulnerable, but can also benefit greatly from investments in productive inputs, in
particularseeds andfertilizer.

Benefits and costs     - Estimates from international studies show substantial impacts on
productivity from provision of better seed and fertilizers. In Nicaragua, it was estimated that
better seedalone will allow 10-20percent increase inyield, by limitingthe incidence of pests and
diseases and by allowingbetter crop establishment. Use of fertilizersincreases yields by 22 to 34
percentnationally,with 23 to 50 percentincreasesamong smallandpoor producers.32Experience
from a previousprogram inNicaraguademonstratesthe impact of certifiedseeds and fertilizer on
productivityamongstsmallproducers33.

The Project will provide 860 tons of seed required for the planting of 7,800 hectares of maize,
15,500 hectares of beans and 2700 hectares of sorghum. At yield levels 15 percent above the
national average, the expected gross value of productionfrom this area would be estimated at
US$12.5mYresulting in a net value of circa US$8.6mwhen input costs are factored in. The net
income increase for the beneficiariesneeds to subtract the value of productionthat they would
have obtained without the program. While this is much harder to estimate, it is fair to say that
they would most probably have planted considerably less, and with seed of lower quality.
Assuming they would have plantedhalf ofthe area and would obtainthe nationalaverageyields,
the net value of their productionwould have been about US$3.9m).Overall, the seed program is
thus estimatedto allowfarmersto raisethe netvalue oftheir productionby circaUS$4.7m.

Fiscal sustainability  -This program expectedto havea very limitedfiscal impact,
                                       i s                                                as the
producers repay the credit (see descriptionof conditions under Annex 1) after they harvest the
productionrealizedwith the distributed seeds and fertilizer. Recent experiencewith the previous
planting season suggests the repayment rates are high. Through the revolving fund, the capital
base of the Grant is expected to be largely maintained, allowing a similar operation in later
seasons (ifseed scarcity would continue) or an investment in the long term strengthening of the
seed system, as currently proposed in the complementary operation aimed at strengthening seed
supply -




32WorldBank,NicaraguaPovertyAssessment2008.
33See documentationfor the PTA 11.


                                              65

        Annex 9: Descriptionof Financial Sector Issues and Compliancewith OP 8.30


The purpose of this annex i s to provide details on the credit scheme proposed under this
emergency operation and show how it complies with OP 8.30 (Financial Intermediary Lending).
The Project seeks to provide credit inthe form of seeds and fertilizer provision to micro and small
farmers that produce basic grains in the regions of Matagalpa, Jinotega, Boaco and Nueva
Segovia. The establishment o f this credit mechanism should facilitate continued access to credit
for this sector. Project design aims to ensure that there will be no adverse impacts on the private
financial sector and FCR, the institution that will administer the credit program.

A.       Background

Nicaragua's banking sector, which suffered a crisis in 2000-2001, continues to be highly
concentrated and oriented to corporate clients and off-shore activity. Under these circumstances,
and despite their importance to the national economy, micro and small farmers continue to face
barriers to access credit and other financial services. Access to credit for individuals, small
farmers or agricultural associations in this area, i s even more constrained and it i s perceived as
risky lending by financial institutions. Given a strong urban bias, this situation is dramatically
reflected inthe fact that only 8 percent of the financial sector's credit costumers inNicaragua live
indepartmentsoutside Managua.

Alternatively, financial services from micro-financial institutions (MFIs) emerged during the
1990s- with donor support that increased substantially after Hurricane Mitch in 1998 - without
regulation from the financial market. Since 2001, three NGOs specializing in microfinance have
become the first regulated entities dedicated to cater the needs of the micro-enterprise and small
business sector. Many unregulated entities, including NGOs and cooperatives have also been
created, some of them affiliated under the NicaraguanAssociation of Microfinance institution^.^^
These NGOs usually lend above market rates because they tend to have higher operating and
financing costs.

The Rural Credit Fund (FCR), which will administer the Project credit mechanism, was created in
1998 (Law 294) to provide financial services to the rural sector. It is a non-profit, self-sufficient
organization and as such does not receive funds from the national budget for its operations. FCR
has beenascribed to the NicaraguanFinancial Investment agency (FNI) since its creation, and has
accordingly been governed by FNI's Board o f Directors and Executive Committee. Nevertheless,
FCR has maintained its managerial authority and independence regarding the management of its
portfolio.

In the summer of 2007, an institutional evaluation of FCR was commissioned by the Bank to
assess the opportunity of providing strategic technical support to FCR within the framework of
the Bank's Broad Based Access to Finance Project. The results of this evaluation suggest inter
alia, that (i) has the potentialto play a more important key role infinancial intermediation in
             FCR
the rural sector; and (ii)FCR has taken important steps to strengthen its institutional capacity by
improved risk analysis, credit reporting, improved organizational manuals and improved credit




34The 21 NGOs and cooperatives affiliated to ANIM had a combined portfolio of US$179 million and
308.000 clients in2006.


                                                  66

performance. Ingeneral, this institutional assessmentprovides evidence that FCR has the capacity
to administer the credit mechanism for the proposed FoodEmergency Project.35
However, the Government recently created a new state retail bank, Banco de Foment0
Productivo. The law creating this bank mentions FCR, but it is not clear whether the new bank
would absorb the portfolio o f FCR. In any case, a covenant would be included in the Grant
Agreement, stating that the Project will be suspended in the event of absorption of FCR
operations by another institution. The experience of retail banks in Nicara ua has not been very
positive due to problems with credit allocation and portfolio management.36gThe Government has
given assurances that FCR will maintain its full managerial authority. To mitigate this risk,
however, the Grant Agreement would include a suspensionclause that would serve the purpose of
protectingthe Project in case FCR were to lose its independence.

B.       Coordinationwith IFC and other World BankOperations inthe Country

The Bank project team and FCR met with IFC duringproject preparation and appraisal to ensure
coordination with its ongoing and planned activities in the country and particularly Matagalpa
and Jinotega. IFC has been implementingan on lendingoperation through ExportadoraAtlantic,
which is a large international coffee trader company with operations in Nicaragua. This credit
scheme for the food emergency operation does not represent any risks or vulnerability for IFC
operations inNicaraguasince they operate through different productive sectors and segment^.^'

The proposed credit mechanism does not interfere or overlap with the recently approved MSME
Development Project. The latter encompasses a component of a Partial Credit Guarantee that will
be administered by FN13' to provide partial guarantees for lending performed by private banks.
This instrument has been designedto attend credit needs lacking enough collateral at urban areas,
thus, not representingany adverse implications for this Food Emergency operation. The credit
operation for this Food Emergency Project does not interfere with the revolving fund that was
designed for the Hurricane Felix Emergency Project.

C.       Consideration of the Needfor Allocation ofDirectedCredit

Access to credit for micro and small farmers has historically been beyond their reach in the
Project area. In addition to low productivity, most people in the sector are small scale producers
making a living through traditional farming, not usingcertified seeds and/or fertilizers to achieve
higher yields. Traditionally, financing for this sector has been categorized as high risk and high
costs for predominantly risk-averse lenders.Moreover, even if lenders were to take the risk, other
characteristics of the sector would make it difficult to actually provide credit. These are lack of
acceptable collateral (land, for example, lacks formal titling and cannot be mortgaged), high
transaction costs, infrastructure and logistics barriers, small loan amounts, lack of documentation
by the small enterprises or associations to support credit applications, and inadequate capacities to
cater to the sector, including financial products.




35External Institutional Evaluation of FCR, preparedby Guido Fernhdez and Carlos Arce, July 30-
August 2 2007. OperatingManual (FCR-MAGFOR). Programa Alimentario de Semilla (PAS). Since
August 2007, no significant changes inthe conditions of operationand inthe organization of FCR, further
to the possiblemerger discussed above, have taken place.
''
36The previous state retail bank, BANADES, cost Nicaraguaan estimatedUS$300 million over a five year
 eriod (loan losses from 1991to 1996, without including the bank's high operating costs).
  Rick Van der Kamp, Project Officer IFC. Managua.
38FNI. Financiera Nicaragiiense de Inversiones. State-ownedsecondtier financial institution.


                                                   67

 While financial intermediaries are present, they tend to operate more in urbanthan inrural areas
 (in the formal financial sector only 8 percent of customers live outside the capital city). Also, in
 these times of crisis, the interest of other financial intermediariesto lendto poor, severely cash-
 constrained farmers, is limited. Finally, it is important to clarify that the proposed operation is
 designedprimarilyas a schemefor the distributionof seeds and fertilizer. Farmerscurrentlyhave
 difficulty accessing these inputs. Rather than providing these inputs for free, the Project then
 receives, at harvest, payment in cash or kind for the earlier distributedpackage and payment to
 the FCR can be made throughother financial intermediaries. At the same time it does not make
 sense to includethe other financial intermediaries in the distributionof the package, since there is
 no money goingaroundinthat process.

,In the context of the operation, while the proposed initial on-lending terms do not respect the
 basic guidance of the OP8.30 norm, it clearly allows temporary, targeted, transparent and capped
 subsidies and directed credit in cases where proposed operations is to support specific poverty
 reductionobjectives. A directed credit of this type would bejustified on the basis that it provides
 for a missingmarket and as a temporary measure. The credit mechanismwould allow fostering
 the sector's productionoutputs in a more productive and sustainable way, that will eventually
 graduate the beneficiaries to access traditional lending at commercial terms. The credit
 mechanism has also an important gender dimension that would help empower women
 economically.Inaddition, throughthe credit, beneficiariesof both genders would have access to
 certified seeds and fertilizers, not readilyto be financed by private financing institutions.Below
 some further attention will be given to the issues of targeting, transparency, capping, and
 temporary nature.

 Targeting. On the basis of the Aggregate FoodInsecurity Index and the Extreme PovertyMap,
 departments and municipalitieswith high poverty and vulnerability were identified (see Annex
 1). These areas, however, havehighpotentialfor increasedagricultural production.The producers
 inthese areas havea longtraditionofcultivatingbasic grains andare very familiarwith the useof
 agriculturalinputssince they receivetrainingandtechnicalassistance from INTA.

 Within the selected areas of interventions, a National TechnicalCommittee selects beneficiaries
 on the basis ofthe followingcriteria:
      0   have a plot between0.7 and3.5 hectares
          have landapt for basic grain production
      0   have experienceincultivatingbasic grains (maize, beans and sorghum)
      0   not carry out slashandburnagriculture
      0   bewilling to sign an I-Owe-You"to pay backthe credit for seeds and inputs
                               "

      0   have an identitycard.

 The databaseofthe "Pound for Pound" program(see the maintext andAnnex 1) is then usedas a
 first step to identify beneficiaries. Other producers can be selected based on the remaining
 selection criteria and on self-selection; Le., they can express their interest to the Municipality
 Committee or cooperative, and the National Technical Committee decides whether they are
 eligible. Beneficiaries needto have an identity card, which encourages undocumented people to
 beregisteredwith nationalauthorities.

 The proposed eligibility criteria for choosing beneficiarieswill be reflectedin the documentation
presented by MAGFOR. A joint FCR- MAGFOR credit operating manual has been submitted.
 This document describes inter alia, the process for beneficiary selection, function and




                                                  68

compositionof the credit committee, credit terms (rates, tenure, collectingmechanisms), gender
and environmental aspects.

Transparency. As also explained below (section E), farmers will be informed in written form
that this is an emergency operation and that subsequent loans through FCR will have a
commercialinterestrate, andwill engage other financialintermediaries as well.

Capping. The total size of the subsidy is constrainedto the Bank grant. US$2.7m of the grant
will be made available in seeds and fertilizer, and at the assumption of complete recovery, the
amount of subsidy is cappedat US$175,000.

Temporary nature. This emergency operation will be followedup by a medium-termoperation
to strengthenthe NationalSeeds System. The next Operation will move from a seed buying and
distributionscheme put in place to overcome the crisis conditionsto a sustainable market driven
seed supply and demand scheme that will help to avoid such problems inthe future and that will
providefarmers with areliablesupply of seed.The follow-upoperationwill addressthe longterm
effects of the credit mechanism.For the follow-up operation, the Government of Nicaragua has
informedthe team that the credit rate will be reviewed to be in line with commercialvalues and
that other credit providerswiil be included.

D.       FinancialSector Policy and Trends

Macroeconomic Framework. The overall macroeconomic framework in the country is stable.
During 2007, the first year of the new government, Nicaragua's macroeconomic performance
remained broadly favorable. Recent macroeconomic estimates suggest that economic growth in
2007 was somewhat lower than expectedbut still good (3.8 percent versus 4.2 percent), although
the annual inflationwas considerably higherthan projected (16 percentversus 7.3 percent). These
outcomes, however, did not result from a weakening macroeconomic policy stance. They are
rather largely attributable to several external shocks, including Hurricane Felix, an unusually
heavy rainy season, and rapidly rising internationalprices of basic grains and fuels. Continued
improvement in growth (4.5 to 5.0 percent) and lower inflation (down to single digits) are
expected in the medium term, underpinned by steady export growth, a favorable investment
environment supported by CAFTA, and stabilizing oil prices. Several vulnerabilities persist,
stemming inter alia from the level of public debt, international financial crisis and high
dollarization in the financial sector. The macroeconomic framework should be further
strengthened with progress on reforms in the fiscal, energy and financial sectors aimed at
fosteringgrowth, promotingfiscal consolidationand increasingpoverty-reducing~pending.~'

Sectoral Framework. The country's financial sector has become stronger and more consolidated
in recent years. Credit to the private sector expanded rapidly after the reintroduction of private
banks inthe early 1990s, although it suffered a set back with the bankingcrisis of 2000-01. After
a series of mergers and acquisitions the financial sector became more consolidated, growing
significantly in the last few years. Recently, a new credit registry and a couple of new private




39 Nicaragua has a PRGF agreement with the IMF that supports the continued implementationof prudent
fiscal and monetary policies. This program builds on the progress made by the country in ensuring
macroeconomic stability and increasing poverty reduction spending without compromising debt
sustainability.

                                                69

credit bureau have been established?' Nevertheless, dollarization is considerably high, and as of
the end of 2007, 66 percent ofdeposits were denominated indollars.

The financial sector is dominated by seven private domestic commercial banks and two private
finance companies, which together provided credit to the private sector in an amount equal to 29
percent o f GDP in 2005. As noted above, access to finance is generally limited, and long and
medium term financing, especially for SMEs, is largely ~navailable.~'Credit is mostly given for
consumer loans (credit cards, mortgages, vehicles), and to a lesser degree towards the agricultural
and industrial sectors. Access to banking services is not readily available to a large share of the
population, as indicatedby the relatively low ratio of bank deposits to GDP (35 percent in2005).
In parallel, the microfinance sector has expanded by 26 percent per year since 1999, reaching
about 350,000 clients by the end of 2006.

As noted by CGAP, Nicaragua still lacks a strategy to build an inclusive financial system. The
proliferation of public second tier funding facilities has undermined The Government's capacity
to establish an effective policy for the financial sector and contributed to an inefficient
fragmentation at the micro-level. The approximately 300 microfinance providers, 55 second-tier
funding sources, and inconsistent sector policies make it difficult to improve the efficiency and
general viability of the financial system. In addition, Government's presence among second tier
financial institutions creates the risk o f ad hoc decisions based on political expediency or
unsustainable goals. A recent example in Nicaragua was the forced restructuring of loans to
coffee growers in 2002, which undermined credit culture and financial standing of the
microfinance institutions servicing this sector. As detailed below, to help address larger financial
sector issues, the Bank has been supporting the Broad Based Access to Financial Services Project
(P077826).

The Proposed Project and the Financial Sector. Specifically, the Project is involved in the
financial sector through the use of an in kind credit mechanism for producers that receive seeds
and fertilizers without any up-front payment. This credit component will initially represent a very
small share o f the financial market, as the total contribution through the credit mechanism is
US$3.0 million. Rather than systemic, the relationship with the financial sector is mainly
instrumental and program-specific.

It is not likely, then, that as currently envisaged, the proposed credit mechanism will have a
substantial impact on the financial sector. It is expected that this particular credit operation will
facilitate access to credit in a sustainable manner to a presently underserved region and sector of
the population. Indeed, the Nicaraguan financial sector is neither interested nor able to provide
lending for micro and small producers, let alone to help improve their productivity and
sustainability inthe mediumto longterm.

With respect to larger financial sector issues, the proposed Project will be complemented by the
IDA-financed Broad Based Access to Financial Services Project (US$7.0 million equivalent).
This Project is helping to address issues of microfinance outreach, financial infrastructure, and



40Despite the establishment o f these institutions, Nicaragua decreased in its ranking for the category of
"Getting Credit" inthe Doing Business Report. Inthe 2008 report, Nicaragua ranked 68" inthis category.
41To facilitate credit access to SMEs, The Government plans to create a guarantee fimd that will partially
cover the risk that formal financial institutions face when providing loans to SMEs that do not have
collateral or sufficient qualifications to be considered suitable clients.



                                                       70

development of policy frameworks in Nicaragua and the region.42The Project's objective is "to
improve access to financial services provided by sound, profitable financial institutions for low-
income households and micro and small businesses." Among other things, this Project is
supporting the improvement of regulation and supervision of microfinance and credit
information, and helping to monitor demand and supply of financial servicesas well as improving
access to sustainable and efficient financial services. Since this Project already fulfills the need
under OP8.30 to engage The Governmentina policy dialogue on sustainablemicrofinance, it has
been agreed that the proposedHFERC does not needto work at this level or duplicate efforts.

E.        Interest RateRegimeand InterestRatesApplied to the Project'sCredit Mechanism

In line with the objectives of the credit mechanism, the interest rate has been structured to
enhance the production capacity of micro and small farmers. Despitethat the final interest rate (8
percentfor final users), will containa subsidy (one-third of the prevailing interest rates for similar
loan facilities), the operation should envisage a medium-term sustainability strategy of the credit
operation. This could be reached by a revision of the financial cost structure after the second
harvest cycle of operations. The revision of the financial terms will include a proposal to allow
commercialfinancial intermediationat marketterms.

The average lending interest rate in Nicaragua in 2006 was 11.58 percent (according to ECLAC
and Em.)Inflation in Nicaragua in 2006, as measured by the percent change in the consumer
price index, was about 9.14 percent. The rate of inflation for 2007 was 17.3 percent and the
accumulated inflation for July 2008 is 23.6 percent. Given the rate of inflation, both the deposit
and lending rates are low. Specifically, the deposit interest rate in 2006 was 4.87 percent and the
savings interest rate was approximately 3.2 percent. The deposit interest rate is expected to be
greater than 5 percent in2007.43

Keeping in mind the above figures, the interest rate to the end borrower has been calculated on
the basis o f (i)a direct lending through FCR44;and (ii)a revision of the credit mechanism
towards a commercially-based interest rate, after the second harvest cycles. As it will be
established in the Subsidiary Agreement to be signed between FCR and MAGFOR, MAGFOR
will assume the credit risk of the emergency cycles.


Parameter                                    Value
Average Financing per farmer                 U.S$90.00
Loan interest rate                            8 percentper annum. An additional 4 percentwill be
                                             chargedfor non-performing loans (delayed balance.)
Payments                                     Principal plus interest at end of period.
Loanrepaymentperiod                           5 to 6 monthsdependingon the financed operation
                                             (beans, corn, and sorghum).

During the first two harvest cycles, the interest rate for credit beneficiarieswill be of 8 percent
This temporary subsidy will come to an end after this period and all beneficiaries must be



42For a full description ofthe project, see the Project AppraisalDocument(PAD), Reportno.28603-NI.
43The deposit interest rate refers to the average rate for demand, time, and savings deposits. The savings
rate refers only to savingsdeposits.
44The current systemusedby FCR, charges 8 percentto 9 percentto its financial intermediaries
(Cooperatives).


                                                     71

informedin written forms that subsequent loanswill have a commercialinterest rate and be open
for commercial financialintermediaries, i.e.,marketsrateswill apply to the loans.

The interest rate after the first two harvest cycles will consider the official inflation rate and
actual administrativeand supervision costs of FCRrelatedto the revolvingfund. This interest rate
will also take into account the rate charged by FCR in the loans provided under the credit
programs implementedwith FCR's ownfunds.

The administrative cost to be charged by FCR and the associated cooperatives (currently
established at 3 percent) will be assessed duringthe Project's Mid-TermReview to establish if
this cost is adequate, and agree on an adjustment ifneeded.It is notedthat FCR is managingother
credit programs in the region, and will take advantage of economies of scale to reduce
administrativecosts acrossthe board.

Monitoringofthe Credit Mechanism

Selectedindicatorsto assess the credit mechanismwill be includedinthe Manualofthe revolving
fund. These indicatorswill include, inter alia, the repayment rate, fund capitalization, and index
of allocated loans. Information on these indicators will be provided to MAGFOR (the lead
agency) and to the Bank. Repayment rates have also been included in the Result Framework of
the operation.

Credit beneficiarieswill be informed about their responsibilitieswith the revolving fund. A due
diligence process will be put in place to secure up-to-daterecords of farmers that are receiving
inputs.FCR is aware that beneficiariesreceivingan in-kindcreditmay be inclinedto see this as a
donation. To mitigatethese risks, the Project's Social Assessment and CommunicationStrategy
will ensure that beneficiaries have been informedand consulted about the Project, and that they
understandtheir commitments. The follow up by MAGFORand FCR will provide opportunities
to foster a repayment culture while ensuring that beneficiariesparticipate in a sustainable credit
andproductionsystem.

FCR's Delivery Capacityof the Credit Mechanismand its future development

FCR has allocated resourcesto increase its presence in the region. In addition, the WB's Broad
Based Projectwill provide support to FCR for system development and staff training for offices
innearbyregions45.

The completion of the manual to manage the credit mechanism (which is part of the overall
operational manual of the operation) is a condition for negotiations. The availability of an
acceptable Agreement betweenMAGFOR and FCR to define its roles and responsibilitiesin the
operation is another condition of negotiations.To ensure the longterm sustainabilityand future
development of FCR, the Agreement will specify that the credit risk implied in this emergency
operation will be carried by the Ministry of Agriculture. In practical terms this implies that
beyond a reasonableeffort, FCR will not be heldresponsibleif part of the money investedin the
distributedseed and fertilizer packagescannot berecovered.




45FCR is establishingoffices inBilwi.


                                                72

               Annex 10: ProjectPreparationand AppraisalTeam Members
Key institutionsresponsible for preparation ofthe Program: Ministryof Education (MINED)and
MinistryofAgriculture andForestry(MAGFOR)

                                 ProjectProcessingSchedule
                                                  Planned                       Actual
RRC Review                                      1011512008                    10/15/2008
InitialPID to PIC                                                             11/14/2008
InitialISDS to PIC                                                            11/20/2008
Appraisal                                       09/23/2008                    09/23/2008
Negotiations                                    11/13/2008                    12/02/2008
Board approval                                  01/22/2009
Planned date of effectiveness                     01/2009
Planned date of mid-termreview                    09/2009
Planned closing date                            06/30/20 10

               Bankstaff and consultantswho workedon the project included
Name                                                         Title                       Unit
Aline Coudouel                          Senior Economist, Task Manager-                 LCSHS
Willem Janssen                          LeadAgricultural-Specialist                     LCSAR
Joseph Owen                             Country Manager                                 LCCNI
Miriam Montenegro                       Operations Officer                              LCSHS
August0 Garcia                          Operations Officer                              LCSSD
Carlos Siezar                           Senior Operations Officer                       LCCNI
Coleen LittleJohn                       Sr. Operations Officer                          LCCNI
KarlaMcevoy                             Operations Analyst                              LCSHS
Andrea Guedes                           Senior Operations Officer                       LCSHE
Laura Rawlings                          Sector Leader                                   LCSHD
Sajitha Bashir                          Sector Leader                                   LCSHD
Gregor Wolf                             Sector Leader                                   LCSSD
Indira J Ekanayake                      Senior Agriculturist (Safeguards - Integrated   LCSAR
                                        Pest Management)
Fabienne Mroczka                        Financial management Analyst                    LCSFM
Joao Veiga Malta                        Sr. Procurement Specialist                      LCSPT
EtelPatriciaBereslawski                 Sr. Procurement Specialist                      LCSPT
IraniEscolano                           Sr. Procurement Specialist                      LCOPR
Enrique Roman                           Financial Management                            LCSFM
Suzana Nagele de Campos Abbott          Operations Officer                              LCSHD
Patriciade la Fuente Hoyes              Sr. Finance Officer                             LOAFC
Alejandro Alcala                        Counsel                                         LEGLA
PatriciaParera                          Consultant                                      LCSAR
Lerick Kebeck                           Sr. Program Assistant                           LCSHD
PatriciaOrna                            Language Program Assistant                      LCSHD
MayelaMurillo                           ETT                                             LCCNI
John A. Elder                           Peer Reviewer                                   AFTH3
Cesar Falconi                           Peer Reviewer                                    FA0
Snezana Mitrovic                        Lead Procurement Specialist                     LCSPT




                                               73

                             Annex 11: Documents in Project Files


General Documents:
World Bank (2008), NicaraguaPoverty Assessment, Volumes I, and 111.
                                                               I1
The World Bank, NicaraguaPovertyAssessment 2008.

References:
Ahmed, Akhter. 2004. Impact of Feeding Children inSchool: Evidence from Bangladesh.
Washington D.C.: InternationalFoodPolicy ResearchInstitute.

Delgado, C.L., Hopkins, J.C., and Kelly, V.A. 1994, "Agricultural Growth linkages in sub-
SaharanAfrica: a synthesis", Washington, D.C., among others.

Coudouel, Aline. 2008, "Food price crisis inNicaragua: Measures to mitigate the impacts of
rising food prices on the poorest and most vulnerable groups". Washington D.C.: World Bank.

International Monetary Fund.2008. WHD Fall REO-RisingFoodPrices and Vulnerable
Households-REO      Chapter 5, Mimeo.

Jukes, Matthew, Lesley Drake and Donald Bundy.2008. School Health, Nutritionand Education
for All. Levelling the Playing Field. CAB1publications.

Mason, Andrew D., Renos Vakis, and Diana Kruger.2004. Shocks and Coffee: Lessons from
Nicaragua. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.

Picado Janet Irene, Martha Ruiz, James Garrett and Alessandra Marini. International and National
Perspectives on Nutrition inNicaragua: Current Panoramaand Principles for Success. June 2008.
Washington, D.C.: World Bank.

Vakis, Renos, Elisabeth Sadoulet, Frederico Finan, and Alain de Janvry. 2004. Can conditional
cashtransfer programs improve social risk management?Lessons for Educationand Child Labor
Outcomes. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.

World Bank (2008), Rising FoodPrices: The WorldBank's Latin America and Caribbean Region
PositionPaper. Report number 44718, World Bank. Washington, D.C.

Del ROSSO, Miller. 1999. School FeedingPrograms - Improving Effectiveness and Increasing
           Joy
the Beenfitto Education: A Guidefor Program Managers. OxfordUK:UK Partnership for Child
Development.




                                               74

                    s
                    N         s
                              N




,~0000008080808080S0208 8 8 8
> v ) v ) ( D
I N N N N N N N N N N N N0N0 V
                           C0 0

                                                 Annex 13: Countryat Glance

                                     Nicaraguaat a glance                                                                            9124108


                                                                        Latin     Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                     America     mlddle-
                                                           NlCaragua  8 Carib.    Income
2007
Population,mid-year(millions)                                    5.6       563      3,437
GNI per capita (Atlasmethod, US$)                               980     5,540       1,887                     Life expectancy

GNI (At/asmethod, US$ billions)                                   5.5   3,118       6,485
Average annual growth, 2001-07
Population(%)                                                     1.3       1.3        1.1
Laborforce (%)                                                    2.4       2.1        1.5                                            Gross
                                                                                                                                     primary
Most recentestimate (latest year avallable, 200107)                                             capita                             enrollment
Povelty(% of populationbelownationalpovertyline)
Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                             56        78         42
Lifeemectancyat birth (years)                                     72        73         69                            I

Infantmortality (per 1,000iive bidhs)                             29        22         41
Childmalnutrition(% of childrenunder5)                              8         5        25             Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)               79        91         88
Literacy I%ofpopulation age 75+)                                                              I
                                                                  77        90         89           -
Gross primaryenrollment (% ofschool-agepopulation)               116       118        111                  Nicaragua
   Male                                                          117       120        112                  Lower-middle-incomegroup
  Female                                                         114       116        109

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                   1987         1997     2008       2007       Economic ration'
GDP (US$ billions)                                   3.9          3.4       5.3        5.7
Grosscapltaiformatlon1GDP                           15.8        31.2      29.4       28.8                          Trade
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                    11.8        23.1      31.1       45.0
GrossdomesticsavingsIGDP                            13.8          6.4      -0.5       -0.9
Gross nationalsavingsJGDP                           13.3          5.5     13.3        12.7
Current accountbalance/GDP                         -20.8       -24.9    -16.1       -16.2
interest paymentsJGDP                                0.3          3.8       1.o
Total dabt/GDP                                     205.8       184.1      82.8
Total debt servicelexports                          14.5        30.6       4.1
Present valueof debVGDP                                                   26.5                                        1

Present value of debtlemorts                                              46.6
                                                                                                                Indebtedness
                                      1981-97   199747          2006     2001     2007.1 1
                                                                                              I      -
(averageannualgrowth)
GDP                                        0.9       3.6          3.7      4.2         4.6                  Nicaragua
GDP per capita                            -1.3       2.2          2.4       2.9        2.1                  Lower-mddle-fncomeorom
Emoris of goodsand services                8.6       8.7        10.5        8.9        7.3


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY                                                                                                                      I
                                                   1987         1997     2008       2007
(% of GDP)                                                                                     Growthof capltaland GDP (U)

Agriculture                                                     23.7      19.7        19.8
Industry                                                        26.8      29.5       29.7
  Manufacturing                                                 18.2      18.5        18.6
Services                                                        49.6      50.8       50.5

Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure               52.0        84.1      88.6       91.6
Generalgov't final consumption expenditure          34.2          9.6     11.9         9.3
Importsof goodsand services                         13.8        47.9      51.0       74.8

                                                                                                                                             I
                                                1987-97      1gg1-07
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                          Growthof exports and Imports1%)
Aaricuiture                                                      4.0       4.2        4.2
Industry                                               ....      4.4       2.5        4.2     '5
  Manufacturing                                        ..        4.8       5.3        4.2     '10
Services                                               ..        3.9       4.1        9.7      5

Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure                5.2         3.9       3.5        5.4      0

Generalgov't final consumptionexpenditure           -7.6         2.3       5.7        4.6     .5
Grosscapitalformation                                2.2        -0.1      -0.5        3.0               -Expotis          ~ l q o r l s
Importsof goods and services                         6.6         4.5       6.1        8.1

Note:2007 data are preliminaryestimates.
This tablewas producedfrom the Development EconomicsLDB database.
* Thediamondsshowfour keyindicatorsin the country (in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing,the diamondwill
  be incomplete.




                                                                      76

                                                                                                                         Nicaragua

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                               1987    1997       2006    2007
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                               911.8       7.3       9.1     7.2
ImplicitGDP deflator                          523.1       9.8      10.6     7.9

Governmentfinance
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                                         17.8       18.8    19.9
Current budget balance                                    4.0       3.4     3.9
Overall surplus/deficit                                 -1.9       -3.9    -5.1

TRADE                                                                                                                                 I
                                               1907    1997       2006    2007
(US$ millions)                                                                        Export and Import levels(US$ mlll.)

Total exports (fob)                              273     577      1,027              4.ow
  Coffee                                         115     116        201
  Shrimp and lobster                              12      79         86
  Manufactures                                    39     245        490
Total imports(cif)                               827   1,450      2,968
  Food                                            88     276        735
  Fueland energy                                 125     188        681
  Capital goods                                  242     391        550
                                                                                               01  02    03     04    05     06    07
Export price index (2000=100)                      0      83        152
Import priceindex (2000=100)                       0      74        176
Terms of trade (2000=100)                        196     111         86

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                               1987    1997       2006    2007     1 Current
(US$ millions)                                                                                  accountbalanceto GDP (%)              I
Exportsof goods and services                     302     900      2,319   2,567        0

Importsof goods and services                     895   1,712      3,905   4,264
Resourcebalance                                 -593    -812     -1,586  -1,697        5


Net inwme                                       -208    -265       -124   -139       -10
Net wrrent transfers                               0     234        856     915
                                                                                     -15
Currentaccount balance                          -801    -643       -855   -921
                                                                                     -20
Financingitems(net)                             578    1,016        986     930
Changes in net resews                           223     -173       -132      -9      -25

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)            113     312        922     930
Conversionrate (DEC, loca//US$)              1.40E-7      9.4      17.6    18.4

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                               1987    1997       2006    2007     1
(US$ millions)                                                                       Compositionof 2006 debt (US$ mill.)

Total debt outstandingand disbursed           7,927    6,229      4,391
  IBRD                                          248       24          0       0                            E:256
  IDA                                            60      368        256     321                    G. 615             C: 63

Total debt service                               44     326         123
  IBRD                                            0       20          0       0
  IDA                                             0        4         10       2
                                                                                   ~       F 573

Composition of net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                                 68     218       1,332
  Officialcreditors                             463     444         229                                                    D 1845

  Privatecreditors                                7      -16         -9
  Foreigndirect investment (net inflows)          2     203        262
  Porfolio equity(net inflows)                    0        0         0

World Bank program
  Commitments                                     0        0        105      0                                            E Bilateral
  Disbursements                                   0       50        61      53                    D Other multilateral
                                                                                                    -                     F Private
                                                                                                                           --
  Principalrepayments                             0       18         5       0     1I :::?
                                                                                     C - I M F                            G Short-term
                                                                                                                           -
  Net flows                                       0       33        56      53
  Interestpayments                                0        6         5       2
  Net transfers                                   0       27        51      51


Note: Thistable was producedfrom the DevelopmentEconomics LDB database.                                                        9/24/08




                                                                 77


                                                                                            87W                               86W                                     85W                                      84W                                        83W

               15N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Cabo Gracias
                                                                                                            H O N D U R A S                                                                                                                                    a Dios
                                                                                                                                                                                                   To Auasbila
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Wani

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Leimus     Waspam                    Lagoon


                                                       NICARAGUA
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Wawa                                                         Cayos Miskitos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Pahara
                                                                                                                                                                    Bocay                   AT L  N T I C O                                  Lagoon
                                                                                                                                                                                                 N O R T E

                                                                                                                                                                                              Bonanza                                                Puerto Cabezas                      14N
                                                                                To Tegucigalpa                                                   Coco    Bocay     Amaka     l l a
                                                                                                                                                                           e
                                                                                                                                                                          b                                          Kukalaya          Karata
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lagoon
                                                                                                              Mogoton                       J I N O T E G A              a                           La Rosita
                                                                                                             (2,438 m)   NUEVA                                      I   s
                                                                                                                       SEGOVIA                                                      Siuna                                             Kukalaya
               EL SALVADOR                                                                                       Ocotal                                                                                  B amban a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Wounta
                                                                                                                               Quilal
                                                                                                                               Quilal    Wiwil
                                                                                                                                          Wiwil
                                                                                                                                                        e   r a                                                                       t        Lagoon

                                           To San                                                   Somoto      MADRIZ                                 l                                                                             s
                                          Miguel                                                                                                   i l
                                                                                                                            San Sebastin
                                                                                                                                Sebastin       d                                                                                             Prinzapolka
                                                                                                                            de Yali          r                                        Prinzap olka                                  a
                                                                                                          E S T E L 
                                                              Gulf of                                                                    C o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   o
                                                                                                                                                                                                   MatagalLapa
                                                             Fonseca                                             Estel
                                                                                                                 Estel
                                                                                                 Somotillo                         Jinotega    Turna                                    Grande   de                               C
               13N                                                                                                                                                                                            Cruz de
                                                               Potosi                                                                                                                                       Ro Grande
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ro                                                                          13N
                                         Punta Cosigina                                                               Matagalpa       MATAGALPA                  Rio Blanco
                                                                            CHINANDEGA                        El Sauce
                                                                                                                              Sbaco
                                                                                                                              Sbaco             Muy Muy                                Kurinws         Nuevo                                                C a r i b b e a n
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Amanecer
                                                                                                     L  O N                                                                                                                     o
                                                                       Chinandega                                                                                                          AT L  N T I C O                     t                                    S e a
                  PACIFIC OCEAN                                                                                                                                                       a
                                                                               Corinto                                                 Boaco    B OCAoCdOi                       Siqu                                                 Perlas
                                                                                                   LLon
                                                                                                     on        MANAGUA                                                                            S U R                       i       Lagoon
                                                                                                                 Lake
               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                Managua                                        r                                                                u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Laguna
               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                  San Benito
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           de Perlas
               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                      l
                                                                                               Puerto                                                              l                                                         q
               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                   Mico
                                                                                              Sandino    MANAGUA                                                       e                                                 ido
               endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                Juigalpa     r
                                                                                                                          MASAYA                                          a                         Rama        Esco nd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            s
                                                                                              12N                  Masaya                                          LLvago
                                                                                                                                                                     vago                                                            Bluefields                                         12N
                                                                                                                                     Granada                                                                               o           Bluefields
                                                                                                                Jinotepe                                CHONTALES C
                      NICARAGUA                                                                                                 GRANADA                                                                                                Bay
                                                                                                   Masachapa  CARAZO                                                              R  Ot a l e nna
                                                                                                                                                                                   h o n
                                                                                                                                                  Lake                                             Nueva                  M
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Gunea
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Gunea
                                                                                                                                             Nicaragua                                                     Pun
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ntta  Gorda
                                       SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                    I. de Ometepe
                                                                                                                            R I VA S                                             S A N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Punta Gorda
                                       DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                                                         Rivas                                      J U A N
                                                                                                                                                                          San
                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                             Miguelito
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Punta
                                                                                                                      San Juan del Sur          Peas Blancas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Gorda
                                       RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                  Ro
                                                                                                                                                                                      San Carlos                    Ind io        Bay

                                       MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                  El Castillo de
                                                                                              11N                                                                                                 La Concepcon
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Concepcon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        San Juan del Norte
SEPTEMBER                              RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                          San
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0    20     40    60 Kilometers     IBRD
                                       DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                  Jua n
                                                                                                                                             To San Jos     C O S T A R I C A                                                                                                                    33456
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0   10   20    30  40    50 Miles
         2004                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                              86W                                    85W                                         84W                                       83W

                                                                                            87W                               86W                                     85W                                      84W                                        83W

               15N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Cabo Gracias
                                                                                                            H O N D U R A S                                                                                                                                    a Dios
                                                                                                                                                                                                   To Auasbila
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Wani

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Leimus     Waspam                    Lagoon


                                                       NICARAGUA
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Wawa                                                         Cayos Miskitos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Pahara
                                                                                                                                                                    Bocay                   AT L  N T I C O                                  Lagoon
                                                                                                                                                                                                 N O R T E

                                                                                                                                                                                              Bonanza                                                Puerto Cabezas                      14N
                                                                                To Tegucigalpa                                                   Coco    Bocay     Amaka     l l a
                                                                                                                                                                           e
                                                                                                                                                                          b                                          Kukalaya          Karata
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lagoon
                                                                                                              Mogoton                       J I N O T E G A              a                           La Rosita
                                                                                                             (2,438 m)   NUEVA                                      I   s
                                                                                                                       SEGOVIA                                                      Siuna                                             Kukalaya
               EL SALVADOR                                                                                       Ocotal                                                                                  B amban a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Wounta
                                                                                                                               Quilal
                                                                                                                               Quilal    Wiwil
                                                                                                                                          Wiwil
                                                                                                                                                        e   r a                                                                       t        Lagoon

                                           To San                                                   Somoto      MADRIZ                                 l                                                                             s
                                          Miguel                                                                                                   i l
                                                                                                                            San Sebastin
                                                                                                                                Sebastin       d                                                                                             Prinzapolka
                                                                                                                            de Yali          r                                        Prinzap olka                                  a
                                                                                                          E S T E L 
                                                              Gulf of                                                                    C o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   o
                                                                                                                                                                                                   MatagalLapa
                                                             Fonseca                                             Estel
                                                                                                                 Estel
                                                                                                 Somotillo                         Jinotega    Turna                                    Grande   de                               C
               13N                                                                                                                                                                                            Cruz de
                                                               Potosi                                                                                                                                       Ro Grande
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ro                                                                          13N
                                         Punta Cosigina                                                               Matagalpa       MATAGALPA                  Rio Blanco
                                                                            CHINANDEGA                        El Sauce
                                                                                                                              Sbaco
                                                                                                                              Sbaco             Muy Muy                                Kurinws         Nuevo                                                C a r i b b e a n
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Amanecer
                                                                                                     L  O N                                                                                                                     o
                                                                       Chinandega                                                                                                          AT L  N T I C O                     t                                    S e a
                  PACIFIC OCEAN                                                                                                                                                       a
                                                                               Corinto                                                 Boaco    B OCAoCdOi                       Siqu                                                 Perlas
                                                                                                   LLon
                                                                                                     on        MANAGUA                                                                            S U R                       i       Lagoon
                                                                                                                 Lake
               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                Managua                                        r                                                                u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Laguna
               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                  San Benito
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           de Perlas
               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                      l
                                                                                               Puerto                                                              l                                                         q
               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                   Mico
                                                                                              Sandino    MANAGUA                                                       e                                                 ido
               endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                Juigalpa     r
                                                                                                                          MASAYA                                          a                         Rama        Esco nd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            s
                                                                                              12N                  Masaya                                          LLvago
                                                                                                                                                                     vago                                                            Bluefields                                         12N
                                                                                                                                     Granada                                                                               o           Bluefields
                                                                                                                Jinotepe                                CHONTALES C
                      NICARAGUA                                                                                                 GRANADA                                                                                                Bay
                                                                                                   Masachapa  CARAZO                                                              R  Ot a l e nna
                                                                                                                                                                                   h o n
                                                                                                                                                  Lake                                             Nueva                  M
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Gunea
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Gunea
                                                                                                                                             Nicaragua                                                     Pun
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ntta  Gorda
                                       SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                    I. de Ometepe
                                                                                                                            R I VA S                                             S A N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Punta Gorda
                                       DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                                                         Rivas                                      J U A N
                                                                                                                                                                          San
                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                             Miguelito
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Punta
                                                                                                                      San Juan del Sur          Peas Blancas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Gorda
                                       RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                  Ro
                                                                                                                                                                                      San Carlos                    Ind io        Bay

                                       MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                  El Castillo de
                                                                                              11N                                                                                                 La Concepcon
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Concepcon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        San Juan del Norte
SEPTEMBER                              RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                          San
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0    20     40    60 Kilometers     IBRD
                                       DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                  Jua n
                                                                                                                                             To San Jos     C O S T A R I C A                                                                                                                    33456
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0   10   20    30  40    50 Miles
         2004                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                              86W                                    85W                                         84W                                       83W

