                                 Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                Report No: ICR00001826



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (TF093698)



                                   ON A

                                  GRANT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7.0 MILLION

                                  TO THE

                        REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA

                                  FOR AN

              EMERGENCY FOOD PRICE RESPONSE PROJECT



                               April 21, 2011




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective February 22, 2011)

           Currency Unit = Nicaraguan Córdobas Oro (NIO)
                       1.00 NIO = US$ 0.045
                       US$ 1.00 = 22.04 NIO

                           FISCAL YEAR


               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CPS          Country Partnership Strategy
EMP          Environmental Management Plan
EPP          Emergency Project Paper
ENABAS       Nicaraguan Basic Foods Company (Empresa Nicaragüense de
             Alimentos Básicos)
FCR          Rural Credit Fund (Fondo de Crédito Rural)
ICR          Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDR          Rural Development Institute (Instituto de Desarrollo Rural)
IPP          Indigenous People´s Plans
GON          Government of Nicaragua
MAGFOR       Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (Ministerio Agropecuario y
             Forestal)
MINED        Ministry of Education
PAS          Agro-Seeds Program (Programa Agroalimentario de Semilla)
PASEN        Education Project (Proyecto de Apoyo al Sector de Educación)
PDO          Project Development Objective
PINE         Integral School Nutrition Program (Programa Integral de
             Nutrición Escolar)
PMF          Pest Management Framework
PPA          Productive Food Program (Programa Rural Productivo Sostenible)
PRORURAL     Sector Program for Sustainable Productive Rural Development
             (Programa Sectorial de Desarrollo Rural Productivo Sostenible)
SIAF         Integrated Financial Management System (Sistema Integrado de
             Administración Financiera)

                     Vice President: Pamela Cox
                   Country Director: Felipe Jaramillo
                    Sector Manager: Helena Ribe
               Project Team Leader: Miriam Montenegro
                  ICR Team Leader: Miriam Montenegro
                                 NICARAGUA
                    EMERGENCY FOOD PRICE RESPONSE PROJECT



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 15
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 16
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 18
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 19
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 25
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 30
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 31
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 32
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 33
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 35
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 36
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Price Vulnerability
Country:                Nicaragua               Project Name:             (Food Crisis) /former
                                                                          Product ID: P113225
Project ID:             P114441                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-93698
ICR Date:               04/27/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                          NICARAGUA
Original Total
                        USD 7.0M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 6.9M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 7.0M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Agriculture & Forestry (MAGFOR)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/15/2008     Effectiveness:          05/15/2009           05/15/2009
Appraisal:            09/23/2008     Restructuring(s):                            03/29/2010
Approval:             01/21/2009     Mid-term Review:        10/26/2009
                                     Closing:                06/30/2010           10/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                          Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                       Quality at Entry
                           No                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                           Yes                                            None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Crops                                                               43                   18
Other social services                                               57                   82


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Global food crisis response                                         100              100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                         Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Carlos Felipe Jaramillo            Laura Frigenti
Sector Manager:            Helena G. Ribe                     Helena G. Ribe
Project Team Leader:       Miriam Matilde Montenegro Lazo Aline Coudouel
ICR Team Leader:           Miriam Matilde Montenegro Lazo
ICR Primary Author:        Miriam Matilde Montenegro Lazo


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objectives are to mitigate the negative nutritional impact of the
food price increase on pre-primary and primary school children and to promote poor rural
household#s food security by increasing agricultural production.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                                ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target     Formally         Actual Value
                                           Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
  Indicator       Baseline Value
                                             approval          Target         Completion or
                                           documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Number of pre-school children receiving lunches in targeted areas
Value
                                        38,022 (at        35,411 (at
quantitative or 38,022                                                    50,777
                                        Appraisal)        Restructuring)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/08/2009                01/22/2009        03/29/2010      02/20/2011
                20,801 in 51 muni.
Comments
                24,669 in 42 muni.
(incl. %
                3, 720 in 5 muni.
achievement)
                1, 587 in 4 muni.
Indicator 2 : Number of primary school children receiving lunches in targeted areas
Value
                                        225,009 (at       216,627 (at
quantitative or 225,009                                                   558,365
                                        Appraisal)        Restructuring)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/08/2009                01/22/2009        03/29/2010      02/20/2011
                215,110 in 51 muni.
Comments
                229,618 in 42 muni.
(incl. %
                95, 208 in 5 muni.
achievement)
                18, 429 in 4 muni.
Indicator 3 : Number of days children received school lunches
Value
quantitative or 65                      50                133             172
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/08/2009                01/22/2009        03/29/2010      02/20/2011
                120 days in 51 muni.
Comments
                47 days in 42 muni.
(incl. %
                15 days in 5 muni.
achievement)
                10 days in 4 muni.
Indicator 4 : Area planted with seeds provided by Project
Value
quantitative or n/a                     26,030            14,762          17,597
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/08/2009                01/22/2009        03/29/2010      02/20/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                             iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                             Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                            Revised
                                               approval                      Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                              documents)                      Target Years
                Component 1: Integral School Nutrition Program: Retention rates in public
Indicator 1 :
                primary schools in targeted areas
Value
(quantitative   84.8                         90                  91.2%      98.6%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/08/2009                     01/22/2009          03/29/2010 02/20/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Component 1: Integral School Nutrition Program: Attendance rates in public
Indicator 2 :
                primary schools in targeted areas
Value
(quantitative   78.8%                        83%                 81.5%      80.1%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/08/2009                     01/22/2009          03/29/2010 02/20/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Component 1: Integral School Nutrition Program: Number of schools that have
Indicator 3 :
                received training materials on food security and nutrition
Value
(quantitative   0                            0                   1624       1624
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/08/2009                     01/22/2009          03/29/2010 02/20/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Component 2: Agro-Seeds Program: Number of farmers that received seed,
Indicator 4 :
                fertilizer and technical assistance in targeted areas
Value
(quantitative   0                            31,590              9,266      8,810
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/08/2009                     01/22/2009          03/29/2010 02/20/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Component 2: Agro-Seeds Program: Yields of maize kg/ha
Value
(quantitative   1,012                        1,288               1,380      1,821
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/08/2009                     01/22/2009          03/29/2010 02/20/2011
Comments



                                             iv
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Component 2: Agro-Seeds Program: Yields of beans kg/ha
Value
(quantitative     552                       920                    754            651
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/08/2009                01/22/2009             03/29/2010     02/20/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Component 2: Agro-Seeds Program: Yields of sorghum kg/ha
Value
(quantitative     1,610                     1,840                  n/a            n/a
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/08/2009                01/22/2009             03/29/2010     02/20/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Component 2: Agro-Seeds Program: Amount paid back as % of value of inputs
Indicator 8 :
                  provided within stipulated period
Value
                                                                                  25 (pertaining to
(quantitative   0                           70                     100
                                                                                  cycle 2009/2010)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/08/2009                    01/22/2009             03/29/2010     02/20/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                       Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                             IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                   (USD millions)
  1     08/18/2009        Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               2.00
                               Moderately                    Moderately
  2     04/06/2010                                                                             2.00
                             Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
                               Moderately                    Moderately
  3     05/20/2010                                                                             4.89
                             Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
  4     12/12/2010        Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                6.95


H. Restructuring (if any)

Restructuring        Board        ISR Ratings at  Amount                 Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)          Approved      Restructuring Disbursed at                Key Changes Made




                                                    v
               PDO Change              Restructuring
                            DO   IP       in USD
                                         millions
  03/29/2010                MU   MU           2.00




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

Nicaragua was severely hit by the increase in food prices, reaching an overall annual
inflation rate of 19.8 percent in 2008 (after reaching a peak of 24 percent in August 2008),
and of 29.4 percent in food items (with a peak of 35 percent also in August 2008). In
response, the Government of Nicaragua (GoN) adopted a two-pronged strategy that
combined actions to support the most vulnerable groups of the population and actions
aimed at expanding the supply of agricultural goods. The GoN sought donor support to
implement this strategy and the Bank articulated its response around two operations. The
first one was the Emergency Food Price Response Project, under analysis, that built on
existing programs with established systems to minimize risks and ensure prompt
implementation. The second was the preparation of the Additional Financing to the
Second Agricultural Technology Project (CR 4127/H-537)1 to support the National Seeds
Program that aimed to improve the availability of, and access to high quality seeds in
order to sustainably increase agricultural productivity.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country context: The impact of Food Prices on Poverty in Nicaragua
Between early 2006 and 2008 global food prices increased dramatically, by an annual
average of 23 percent. After the second half of 2008, Nicaragua experienced amongst the
highest price increases in the Latin American region, as a result of global developments
being compounded by natural disasters that dramatically affected domestic food
production.

This type of food price crisis affects the poor disproportionately, because the share of
their incomes devoted to food purchases is larger than that of richer households. In
Nicaragua’s rural areas, two-thirds of the poor’s income is devoted to food, while the
urban extreme poor have limited alternative food sources. Thus, the expected poverty
impacts of large shocks which affect entire groups of the population were substantial.


The Government’s response
The GoN used a range of interventions to minimize the negative impact of the high food
prices, with a focus on two areas. First, to protect the most vulnerable population, the
Government established an overarching National Social Protection System (Sistema
Nacional de Bienestar Social) that supports among others, the improvement of the
nutritional status of children. In particular, to respond to the immediate emergency in
2008, the Government focused on guaranteeing the functioning of the Integral School
Nutrition Program (Programa Integral de Nutrición Escolar, PINE) in the poorest areas
of the country.


1
  The Additional Financing was approved by the Board on May 10, 2010 and is expected to be declared
effective by May 2011. The project´s closing date is December 31, 2013.



                                                  1
Second, to increase the productivity of the agricultural sector, the Government organized
agricultural extension, technology transfer, and improvements to the value chains for
food in national and international markets. The Agro-Seeds Program (Programa
Agroalimentario de Semilla – PAS) was launched to distribute certified seeds to small
farmers in targeted areas; and was complemented with the Productive Food Program
(Programa Productivo Alimentario, PPA) which aimed at endowing poor households that
have access to land with a set of productive assets and with the development of a
medium-term investment plan to improve the availability of high quality seeds and
increase agricultural productivity in the country as a whole.

Rationale for Bank Involvement
The World Bank was in a unique position to quickly respond to the Government’s
emergency efforts, thanks to the Global Food Price Response Program established in
May 2008 and supported by a multi-donor trust fund. Also, the emergency operation was
aligned with the World Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy- CPS (Report No. 39367–NI,
October 11, 2007). Indeed, while it supported two core programs for immediate relief for
the poorest, the Project also contributed to strengthening the Government’s ability to
respond to crisis in general, with the strengthening of the National Social Protection
System and of the National Seeds System. This effort was also supported by the Bank’s
Non-Lending Technical Assistance in social sectors, which assisted in the diagnosis of
the social protection sector and in the definition of options for its rationalization and
strengthening.

In addition, the Bank had previous cost-effective experiences supporting both sectors.
First, the Bank’s continuous support to the education sector, through PASEN (Education
Project—Proyecto de Apoyo al Sector de Educación) (Cr. 3978) and the Education for-
All Fast Track Initiative TF (EFA-FTI), included long-term involvement in the PINE as
well as close donor coordination to ensure its longer-term sustainability. Second, the
Bank had provided support to the agricultural sector, including to the National Seeds
Program “Pound for Pound? (Libra por Libra) under the First Agricultural Technology
Project (Cr. 3371), as well as other interventions financed by the Second Agricultural
Technology Project (Cr. 4127) and the sector wide multi-donor approach program known
as PRORURAL.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The Project’s Development Objectives were to mitigate the negative nutritional impact of
the food price increase on pre-primary and primary school children and to promote poor
rural households’ food security by increasing agricultural production.

Specifically, the Project aimed at: (i) supporting the provision of school lunches and
nutrition training in the most vulnerable municipalities, as well as strengthening the
national nutritional strategy; and (ii) distributing certified grain seeds and fertilizers to
farmers with small landholdings in the poorest municipalities.

Given the nature of the project and the short implementation period, the impact on
nutrition and food security was measured in a narrow sense, through the following three
project output indicators: (i) number of children receiving lunches in pre-schools and


                                             2
primary schools; (ii) number of school days children received school lunches; and (iii)
areas planted with seeds provided by the Project. Additionally, six intermediate outcome
indicators were defined to measure performance on school attendance and retention rates
of pre-school and primary school children as well as on increasing agricultural production.
(For details see Annex 2)

1.3 Revised PDO
The PDO and Key Indicators were not revised during project implementation. However,
the Project was restructured on March 29, 2010 to increase the scope of Component 1
(PINE) and decrease the scope of Component 2 (PAS). The reallocated amounts were
US$6.0 million for Component 1 and US$1.3 million for Component 2 (as explained
further in section 1.6). Accordingly, the targets for the outcomes indicators were adjusted,
increasing the number of school days for which school feeding was provided from 100 to
133, and reducing the number of small producers receiving certified seeds, fertilizers,
training and technical assistance from 31,590 to 9,266.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The Project beneficiaries were originally: (i) approximately 263,000 pre-school and
primary school aged children, who would receive school lunches for 100 days, in 52
municipalities (8 departments) classified as having high or very high food vulnerability
and/or presenting severe or high poverty levels; and (ii) approximately 31,590 small
producers from rain-fed agricultural areas where the agricultural cycle was most
compromised.

After restructuring, the Project beneficiaries became: (i) 252,038 preschool and primary
school children who would receive school lunches for 133 days, in 51 of the original
municipalities (funding for one of the original municipalities was provided by the World
Food Program, due to its very severe food insecurity conditions); and (ii) approximately
9,266 small producers from rain-fed agricultural areas where the agricultural cycle was
most compromised.

1.5 Original Components
The Project consisted of two components: (i) Integral School Nutrition Program-PINE;
and (ii) the Agro-Seeds Program-PAS.

Component 1. Support of Integral School Nutrition Program – PINE (originally US$4.3
million, approximately 59 percent of the Grant amount).
This component supported the on-going Integral School Nutrition Program in targeted
municipalities and was implemented by the Ministry of Education (MINED). This
component targeted approximately 263,000 pre-school and primary school aged children
in 52 municipalities (8 departments) identified according to the Food Vulnerability Map
of 20072 as having high or very high food vulnerability and/or presenting severe or high


2
 The targeting mechanism comprised two stages and used the Food Vulnerability Map 2007 and the
Unsatisfied Basic Needs Map developed in 2005. Further details are given in Annex 2.



                                              3
poverty levels who would benefit from school lunches for a period of 100 days.
Specifically, the Grant financed the purchase of inputs for school lunches (namely rice,
oil, maize, cereals and beans). Government counterpart funds financed the administrative
costs of the program (included in the Project cost), including the transportation and
distribution of the food to schools. The cost of the preparation of meals was born by the
community, teachers, and parents. The component also supported activities to improve
the program and strengthen existing national systems to address chronic malnutrition
amongst children, a core element of the National Food and Nutrition Security Policy
(PNSAN).

Component 2. Support of Agro-Seeds Program - PAS (originally US$3.0 million,
approximately 41 percent of the Grant amount)
This component supported the Agro-Seeds Program (PAS) which distributed a
technological package of certified seeds, fertilizers, and training and technical assistance
to qualified beneficiaries. The inputs were valued at market prices and the package was
provided as a credit that could be reimbursed with in-kind contributions or in cash at the
end of each agricultural cycle. The component originally targeted 31,590 small producers
from rain-fed agricultural areas where the agricultural cycle was most compromised.3
Specifically, the component financed the purchase and distribution of seeds and fertilizers,
technical assistance, and training to producers, as well as operational costs resulting from
project implementation and monitoring and evaluation activities.

This component was executed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAGFOR
also had overall responsibility for grant implementation, including fiduciary aspects),
with the support of public sector agencies, such as the Nicaraguan Agricultural
Technology Institute (INTA), the Rural Development Institute (IDR), the Nicaraguan
Basic Food Company (ENABAS), and the Rural Credit Fund (FCR).

1.6 Revised Components
A reallocation of resources was approved by the Country Director on March 29, 2010.
The Bank reallocated US$1.7 million from Component 2 to Component 1. The new total
allocation was of US$6.0 million for Component 1 (US$0.3 million from counterpart
funds and US$5.7 million from the Grant) and US$1.3 million for Component 2.

The Project Development Objective, the design of the project, the outcome indicators,
and the targeting mechanism remained the same. However, the target values for the
outcomes indicators were adjusted to reflect the change in the scope of the Project. For
Component 1, this increased the number of days of school lunches to 133, while for
Component 2, this decreased the number of beneficiaries to 9,266 small farmers for the
whole Project (see Annex 2).

This reallocation was motivated by issues in the implementation of Component 2, as
identified in the Government’s technical audit. These issues included in particular: (i) the


3
 Departments of Matagalpa, Jinotega, Nueva Segovia and Boaco. Selected areas of the Atlantic Coast in
close proximity to these four departments might also be included.


                                                 4
negative impact of the droughts caused by “El Niño? on the production of the Postrera
2009-20104 season in the areas targeted by the Project; (ii) the unexpected intensive rain
from November 2009 through June 2010 that affected the 2009-2010 Apante season and
the 2010-2011 Primera and Postrera season; and (iii) the low take-up of the credit by
small farmers, resulting from their lack of confidence in their ability to repay their loans
given the adverse climate conditions.

1.7 Other significant changes
On June 24, 2010, the closing date was extended by four months from June 30, 2010 until
October 31, 2010 allowing the Government to: (i) finalize the third purchase of school
lunches under Component 1 of the Project; (ii) finalize the technical and financial audits
of the Project; (iii) conclude the delivery of the agricultural package to the program’s
beneficiaries under Component 2; and (iv) conclude all activities related to the
Indigenous Population People’s Plan.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The rationale for the Bank’s involvement was sound at appraisal and throughout the life
of the Project since it supported the national response to the food crisis, contributed to
strengthening the broader Government capacity to respond to crises, was aligned with the
CPS and the Government’s National Human Development Plan (2007), and was
coordinated with other donors.

The Project benefitted from the Bank’s previous and on-going involvement in the
education and agricultural sectors. Building on this engagement, the Government and the
Bank put together multi-sectoral high level teams who prepared the Project on a tight
schedule. This close collaboration led to the rapid identification of MAGFOR as the
institution responsible for the overall implementation, including all fiduciary aspects of
the Project given its experience with Bank financed projects. As a result, the risks
associated with financial capacity were ranked as Moderate taking into account the
agreed mitigating measures. In terms of procurement, the project risk was assessed as
high, in light of the difficulties faced across the portfolio in Nicaragua. To mitigate these
risks, the Bank committed to provide close guidance and supervision.

Component 1 of the Project had a fairly simple design, and built on an existing program
which had been successfully implemented for several years. Thus, despite the challenges
related to procurement, the overall component design was very strong. Component 2 of
the Project, on the other hand, had a more complex design, largely because of the number
of implementing institutions involved and the innovation in the approach.5 Indeed, the

4
 Each agricultural cycle has three planting seasons: Primera, Postrera and Apante. The Project benefited
small farmers for the Postrera and Apante planting seasons of the 2009-2010 agricultural cycle and for the
Primera and Postrera planting seasons of the 2010-2011 agricultural cycle.

5
  The innovation in the approach refers to introducing a credit line for small farmers to face the food crisis
in a context where in-kind transfers were used by past administrations.



                                                       5
implementation arrangements for Component 2 involved four additional institutions
besides MAGFOR, which resulted in complex coordination mechanisms.

2.2 Implementation
The Project was implemented over an eighteen-month period. It was approved on January
21, 2009 and signed on February 17, 2009. In less than four months the Grant was
declared effective (May 15, 2009). This represents a short period of time considering the
conditions for the execution of the Implementation Agreements between MAGFOR,
MINED, ENABAS, IDR and FCR and Nicaragua’s usual lags, although compared to
other countries and emergency responses this could have been improved. The Project
closed on October 31, 2010 after a four-month extension of the closing date. A few
issues came up during implementation, and are described as follows.

Overall, Component 1 contributed to the achievements of the Project’s objectives as
planned and its performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory for the following reasons.
During 2009, turnovers in the procurement and financial staff at MINED temporarily
slowed the pace of implementation of the Ministry’s activities, and this affected both this
Project and other Bank supported activities. As a result, the first food purchase took more
than seven months. To remedy this issue, MAGFOR offered in-house-training to
MINED’s procurement unit throughout 2010 and the Bank intensified its technical
support from the procurement team. These remedies allowed the completion of planned
activities by Project’s closure, including the additional funds re-allocated during the
Project’s life. The Government also took advantage of decreasing food prices during the
second year of implementation and was able to make additional purchases of
commodities. At the end, this Component reached 609,000 pre-school and primary school
children attended by the school lunch program for different lengths of time (about 241
percent more than the original target of 252,000 children) with a budget of US$6.0
million (about 139 percent more than the original allocation of US$4.3 million).

In relation to the broader impacts on nutrition, the Project supported the development and
update of the school curricula in food security as part of the National Nutrition Policy,
and trained school communities in food security and nutrition in the Autonomous
Regions of the Atlantic Coast (part of the Project’s Indigenous Peoples Plan).

The performance of Component 2 was rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory, except for the
last phase of Project implementation when it was rated Moderately Satisfactory, because
of a series of implementation problems. First, adverse climate conditions experienced in
Nicaragua during the period of execution of the Project resulted in a delay in the
implementation of the Component. In particular, El Niño caused severe droughts, and
intensive rain affected the production in areas targeted by the Project. Both events
resulted in delays and a scarcity of certified seeds. These issues were intensified by the
insufficient readiness level of MAGFOR at start up since they had to identify the real
demand of the Program and support the organization of small farmers to obtain the credit
line through an intensive dissemination exercise during 2009. Due to this, MAGFOR
organized the first distribution close to four months after effectiveness. Also, the adverse
climatic conditions limited small farmers’ earnings and their willingness to commit to



                                             6
loans. As a result, during the first year of implementation of the Project, only about ten
percent of the original target of beneficiaries was covered.

In light of these constraints, the Government sought the reallocation of funds in March
2010 after long discussions that required high management level involvement from the
Bank and the Government sides. To accelerate implementation in the second year, the
Government had to increase monitoring activities which included: detailed follow-up of
past beneficiaries, technical support to the consolidation of cooperatives, higher
coordination among institutions for training activities, as well as more intensive
dissemination efforts to attract new beneficiaries in the targeted territories. As a result,
during the second year, Component 2 required intensive supervision from the Ministry of
Finance and the Bank side in order to meet the revised outcomes. Overall, 8,810 farmers
were reached during the Project (about 29 percent of the initial target of 31,590 farmers
and about 95 percent of the restructured target of 9,266) with a budget of US$1.3 million
(about 43 percent of the initial budget of US$3.0 million).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The PDO and most of the Project´s intermediate indicators were appropriate and aimed at
capturing progress towards the project development objectives. All indicators were part
of the results monitoring systems of the two sectors. MAGFOR had overall responsibility
for managing the M&E system.

For Component 1, monitoring was based on the information system of the PINE which
provided updated information on the number of children covered by the program and
allowed monitoring both at the central and local level. This system was very well
established at the beginning of the Project, since it had been functioning for several years.
In addition, PINE used its existing supervision network that monitors monthly
implementation progress through a series of spot checks. For Component 2, monitoring
was undertaken on the basis of a new information system built for the PAS itself. This
system built on the system which the National Seed Program had been using, with
support from the World Bank’s Technical Agricultural Project I (CR 3371). The system
was established in 2007 and provided information on the number of farmers receiving
seeds, fertilizers and technical assistance, on the areas planted and yields. Monitoring
also relied on the information system of the FCR, for data on loan repayments. Both
systems were strengthened by the Project and continue to function beyond closure.

In addition to the monitoring of Project activities, the Project contracted independent
technical audits for each Component to monitor seed and food distribution to
beneficiaries. Results from these audits are presented in section 3.2.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards. The Project had an environmental rating of “B? (limited impact). It triggered
the safeguards on Pest Management (OP.4.09), Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) and
Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10). The safeguard rating was Moderately Satisfactory
through the Project´s life since the related activities could only be completed during the
second year of the Project. To comply with these safeguards the GoN prepared strategies



                                             7
for completing the environmental management and the indigenous people´s plans (EMP
and IPP, respectively) as well as the integrated pest management framework (PMF). The
EMP and PMF were completed before the first distribution of the technological package
and the IPP before the first distribution of school lunches. All three plans were consulted
and disseminated with key stakeholders and implemented through the life of the Project.
Supervision visits verified compliance. No significant negative environmental impacts
were reported during Project implementation.

OP 8.30. In addition, the Project fell under OP 8.30, Financial Intermediary Lending. A
formal review was completed at Appraisal and a description of the financial sector issues
and compliance with OP 8.30 was included in the Emergency Project Paper (EPP).

Procurement. The weak capacity of the implementing agencies was one of the major
factors which delayed implementation and explained the Moderately Satisfactory rating
for procurement during most of the Project’s life and at the end of implementation.
Procurement was temporarily rated Moderately Unsatisfactory after the 2009
procurement ex-post review due to the identification of significant delays in the
completion of procurement processes. Later on, the Project complied with all the
recommendations of the 2009 ex-post review, resulting in improvements in its rating. The
main procurement challenge related to the procurement of five products for school
lunches (rice, beans, maize, cooking oil, flour). It was initially decided to use the
international competitive bidding for commodities procedure to ensure fast processes in
the emergency context, while safeguarding fair competition. However, the Project
eventually organized three ICB that took on average 6 months to be completed, one direct
contracting and one international shopping granted on an exceptional basis in the last
quarter of the Project´s life. Intensive monitoring from the Bank was needed.

Financial Management. Throughout the Project, the implementing agencies managed
the budget through an integrated financial management system (SIAF, Sistema Integrado
de Administracion Financiera) created under PRORURAL, a donor harmonization
program. SIAF was already operational at appraisal in MAGFOR and was fully
implemented in MINED during this Project. In this context, the Project benefited from
the relatively high capacity of the financial unit at MAGFOR that provided support to all
the implementing agencies of the Project for both Components.

However, because of delays in presenting the Financial Management Reports and in
contracting the Project’s financial audit, the project financial management rating was
Moderately Unsatisfactory until the last quarter of the implementation period. It was then
changed to Moderately Satisfactory, as the 18-month-period-financial audit was
contracted in the last quarter of 2010.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Since the Project, three operations have been designed, which further promote the efforts
supported by this Project and benefited from its design. First, the Additional Financing to
the Second Agricultural Technology Project ATP-II (Cr. 4127/H-537) aims to strengthen
the National Seed System to improve seed availability and agricultural productivity in a



                                            8
more sustainable way. Lessons learned from this Project were considered in the design of
the new operation in terms of enhancing the use of monitoring and evaluation systems
already in place and improving the inter-institutional coordination at the local level, as
well as refining the mechanisms for the selection of beneficiaries and the institutional
implementation arrangements. In addition, the Nicaragua Food Emergency Support
Program for School Children (TF097212) and the Nicaragua Social Protection Project
(Cr. 4862) support the continued implementation and strengthening of the PINE. The
Project has benefited these two operations by strengthening the procurement capacity of
the Ministry of Education as well as the technical capacity to monitor and improve the
program. Improvements in the procurement capacity of the ministry also benefit the
implementation of the Nicaragua Education Project (Cr. 3978) and the Education for All
Grant (TF 057311) under execution.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The Project´s objective, design, and implementation remain highly relevant after Project
closing – both in terms of the Bank’s and global priorities, and in terms of the Country’s
priorities, the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), and the GFRP Framework. In addition,
the Project’s objectives’ persistent relevance is demonstrated by the decision of the Bank
to approve three Projects that support the continued implementation of this Project’s
activities. In particular, injecting resources to fill in the budget gaps of on-going
programs, such as PINE, in the event of crises prevent them from collapsing.6 On a more
global level, the strengthening of countries’ capacity to face crises and respond to them in
a manner that protects the poorest while promoting greater productivity, such as PAS,
remains one of the priorities of the international development’s community.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
After initial delays in implementation, progress towards achievement of the Project
Development Objectives accelerated, the targets for the four PDO outcome indicators
were met, and the intermediate indicators performed well. Annex 2 provides a more in-
depth description of the performance of these indicators.

Under Component 1, the Project provided school lunches to about 236,000 pre-school
and primary school children for a period of 120 days; to another 254,000 children for 47
days; to another 99,000 children for 15 days, and to another 20,000 children for 10 days.
This represents a total of 609,000 pre-school and primary school children attended for
different lengths of time. This surpasses the target set when the Project was restructured
(when the number of children was estimated at about 252,000), which reflects the fact
that MINED was able to organize in total five purchases and distributions of commodities
by Project closing (three regular purchases and two special purchases). The original


6
 The share of PINE financed with national resources was on average 24 percent for the period of 2002-
2006. Since 2007, when the program was expanded to the national level, the Government has financed over
60 percent with national resources. The need for continuity of the services in the face of budget restrictions,
due to crises, is critical and increases the demand on external resources.



                                                      9
estimate was that MINED would only be able to organize two regular purchases and
distributions.

The targets for the intermediate outcome indicators for this component were fully
achieved. First, retention rates in public primary schools in targeted areas increased from
84.8 percent in 2008 to 96.0 percent in 2009, and 98.6 percent in 2010 (targets were 90.0
percent and 91.2 percent for 2009 and 2010, respectively). Second, attendance rates in
public primary schools in targeted areas increased from 78.8 percent in 2008 to 83.0
percent in 2009, and 80.8 percent in 2010 (targets were 83.0 percent and 81.5 percent
respectively).7 Finally, the number of schools that have received training materials on
food security and nutrition reached the targeted 1,624 schools in the Atlantic Coast
regions.

Under Component 2, the area planted with seeds provided by the Project reached 17,597
manzanas8 exceeding its restructured target of 10,400. However, at the Project closing,
mixed results were found for the five intermediate outcome indicators where most of
them were partially met while only one was met. Indeed, the Project benefited a total of
8,810 small farmers compared to the (revised) target of 9,266. The yields of the crops
financed under the project reached 1,821 kg/ha for maize and 651 kg/ha for beans
(compared with the targets of 1,380 and 754 respectively). Finally, only 25 percent of the
loans were paid back as stipulated during the first cycle.9

The main reasons why outcomes fell short of the set targets are the adverse climate
conditions that affected yields in all planting cycles, and resulted in an increased aversion
on the part of small farmers to contract credit in a context where they were not certain of
their ability to repay in full and in time. Therefore, some of the lessons learned that fed
into the design of the Additional Financing to the ATP-II to minimize the risk which had
been faced by this Project, include the targeting of a specific group through the prior
identification of demand exercise run over the last three years. The Additional Financing
fosters certified seed production capacity and business development of 1,200 seed
producers organized into 31 cooperatives or producer associations, by providing them
with a credit line for production, marketing and, processing of certified seeds.

As mentioned earlier, in addition to the monitoring of Project activities, the Project
contracted independent technical audits for each Component to monitor seeds and foods
distribution to beneficiaries. For Component 1, the audit highlighted that: (i) despite
initial delays and sporadic shortcomings in the quality of the grains, school lunches were
delivered as planned in the eligible schools and the beneficiaries praised the continuity of
this Program even after the Project’s closure; (ii) there was a positive impact in terms of
retention and attendance in the areas covered, especially for pre-school beneficiaries; and


7
  Although not all the impact can be attributed to PINE, official reports, such as the National Education
Strategy under preparation, recognized the positive impact of expanding the Program´s coverage at the
national level since 2008 as a complementary intervention to the “gratuity of education? policy.
8
  1 manzana represents 0.7 hectares. The targets are measured in manzanas.
9
  The amount paid back for the second year will be reported at the end of 2011.


                                                   10
(iii) there are positive impacts in terms of strengthening the organization of the School
Food Committees and their participation in the Program since they were more active in
the preparation of the food, took responsibility for some of the costs of the Program
(providing complementary inputs), and were part of the participatory auditing of the
delivery of the services. For Component 2, the main findings of the audit included: (i)
The Component contributed to promote poor rural households’ food security by
increasing production despite the adverse climate conditions that initially delayed its
implementation; (ii) MAGFOR’s coordination was effective in addressing bottlenecks
and shortcomings during implementation but could be improved in terms of coordinating
the inter institutional activities to deliver the services in a timely fashion; and (iii) the
delivery of the technological package experienced some shortcomings that were
significant but not critical for some target areas, such as delays in the delivery of the
seeds and fertilizers, and trainings by INTA, among others.

3.3 Efficiency
Component 1 seems to have counteracted the potential impacts of the crisis on schooling
outcomes, as reflected in the increase in school attendance and retention rates.
Evaluations have demonstrated the effectiveness of targeting and pro-poor incidence of
the Program. PINE is one of the most progressive programs in Nicaragua. It shows an
overall concentration index of -0.2, even higher in regions like Managua, 10 mainly
because the program targets public schools, where most of the children from poor
families attend.

The three percentage point increase in school attendance after the Program translates into
an estimated 7,000 children that could have dropped out of school if the Project has not
been implemented. In a conservative scenario that the Program will only help children to
complete primary education, at least a 14 percent return to primary completion will be
expected. The overall lifetime private benefits from approximately 7,000 children
resuming schooling can be valued at around US$36 million, which is 532 percent larger
than the overall cost of the grant subcomponent of US$5.7 million.

Expenditures in this component represent the equivalent of just 5.5 percent of the
Government’s pre-primary and primary education spending, or about 2.7 percent of the
total education budget in 2009. 11 The Program has continuously benefited from the
support of various donor agencies (including the World Food Program, the American-
Nicaraguan Foundation, as well as a group of bilateral donors who provide general
support to the Ministry for its overall programs), including the World Bank through the
Nicaragua Social Protection Project that will finance the continuation of PINE for 110
school days with an amount of US$4.5 million. The Government is expected to sustain



10
   The concentration index takes values between -1 and 1, with negative values indicating a progressive
distribution, positive values indicating a regressive distribution, and a zero value indicating an equal
distribution among population groups.
11
   IMF (2010), “Nicaragua: Fourth and Fifth Review Under the Three-Year Arrangement Under the
Extended Credit Facility.?


                                                  11
PINE and is trying to reduce the unit cost of food through a planned decentralization of
the management of the PINE’s purchase and distribution mechanisms.

With respect to Component 2, agricultural productivity differences are large in Nicaragua,
especially between different producer sizes and regions. Large agricultural producers
display productivity levels that are more than six times higher than among small
producers. In Nicaragua, the utilization of agricultural inputs is generally low with large
differences between types of producers. Only 10 percent of all producers use certified
seeds, 6 percent use organic fertilizers, 37 percent use chemical fertilizers, and 67 percent
use pesticides. Utilization rates are significantly lower among small producers and in
poorer regions.

The component intended to target around 31,600 small producers in areas which were
particularly affected by the 2008 food crisis, which presented large, untapped, production
potential. Within these areas, small producers with access to limited plots (under 3.5
hectares) but with experience in basic grain production were prioritized as they were
potentially the most vulnerable, but could also benefit greatly from investments in
productive inputs, in particular seeds and fertilizer. However, with the restructuring only
a total of 8,810 farmers were reached at the end of the Project. While the number of
beneficiaries was well below the intended objectives of the component at Project start, at
least the area planted with seeds provided by the Project surpassed the 10,400 manzanas
targeted at the Project restructuring stage, to reach a total of 17,597 manzanas.

The targeting mechanism was generally very effective, but in some areas partial
requirements were not fulfilled and needed to be improved, as mentioned in the technical
audit. For instance, around 17 percent of a subsample of beneficiaries did not have a plot
and rented a plot during planting seasons. Moreover, only 25 percent of the loans were
paid back as stipulated during the first cycle. Therefore, a scheme for fiscal sustainability
is needed, as well as a plan on how this could be used and adapted in potential future
emergencies.

  3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The overall Project outcome is rated as Moderately
Satisfactory. The rating is based on the continuing high relevance, the achievement of
restructured performance indicators for the main Component, and evidence of the
efficiency and impact of the Project.

Since the Project was restructured, the outcome was assessed against both the original
and revised Project objectives, and the separate outcome ratings were weighted in
proportion to the share of actual grant disbursements made in the periods before and after
the approval of the restructuring. 12 .The Project was rated Moderately Unsatisfactory
against the original project objectives (with a weighted value 3 x 0.3= 0.9), while it was


12
  The evaluation of the rating was completed by following the guidelines for ICR by OPCS August 2006
updated in November 2010 (Attachment Appendix B). The disbursement prior to restructuring was 30
percent (US$3 million) and 70 percent after restructuring.


                                                12
rated Moderately Satisfactory against the revised project objectives (with a weighted
value of 5 x 0.7 = 3.5), making a weighted average score of 0.9 + 3.5 =4.4, that is
Moderately Satisfactory with rounding.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The Project was overall targeted to the poor. Evaluations have demonstrated the
effectiveness of targeting and pro-poor incidence of the PINE (Section 3.3). About a third
of households in the bottom decile are covered by the PINE, compared to less than a
tenth for households in the top decile. Evidence on the targeting of the PAS or similar
programs is more limited because of their significantly smaller sizes. But the focus of
these programs on extremely vulnerable areas (as reinforced by their recent vulnerability
to additional weather shocks) suggests that their potential impact on poverty is high. In
addition to this, the Project focused on indigenous populations living in the same areas
identified at Appraisal and interventions were culturally adapted to attend them.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The Project strengthened the fiduciary capacity of both MAGFOR and MINED, in
particular in terms of procurement and technical monitoring of externally funded projects.
This is reflected in the preparation of the two follow-up operations that support PINE and
the potential application to the Education for All Fast Track Initiative that would also
support PINE. On the other hand, the need of key personnel to guarantee the coordination
among agencies implementing Component 2 has been taken into consideration in the
design of the Additional Financing of APT-II, where a core team is financed to facilitate
implementation and where intensive supervision is planned from the Bank’s side.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
There are no other significant unintended outcomes and impacts.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
No formal beneficiary assessment was carried out.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate. The Risk to Development Outcome is considered Moderate. The
Project’s main contributions were in guaranteeing the continuation of school lunches
during the food price crisis and the provision of the technological package to increase the
production of small farmers. There are two major risks that could potentially threaten
development outcomes. The first one is that Nicaragua is highly prone to external shocks
(either natural disasters or external shocks), which could affect the continuity of these
two Programs and threaten existing gains in poverty reduction and other social indicators
including those affected by this Project. The second one is that the dependency of these
Programs on external funding could have direct impacts on access and service coverage
in the future. For PINE, the Government is looking for options to finance existing gaps.
With regards to PAS, the Government has made significant progress in terms of




                                            13
improving the national seed system. More efforts will be needed through the sectoral
approach to continue financing and improving this Program.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. Bank Performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated
Moderately Satisfactory based on the following factors. The Bank put in place a multi-
sectoral team to adequately prepare the Project using emergency procedures under OP 8.0
which led to effective and timely preparation. However, although the turnover in
fiduciary staff at MINED perhaps could not have been foreseen, the complexity of the
design of Component 2 in terms of the institutional arrangements for its implementation
was underestimated by the Bank team. Both were challenges for Project implementation
from the beginning.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory. The quality of supervision is rated Satisfactory. The Bank ensured
intensive supervision for the Project, mainly from the field. Continuous meetings with the
implementing agencies were held throughout the lifetime of the Project benefiting from
the participation of the local Bank procurement, financial management, and technical
staff which included the task team leader. The involvement of the Social Protection
Sector Manager and the Country Manager was instrumental to speed up the negotiations
with the Government on the restructuring.

 (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. Overall Bank performance is rated Moderately
Satisfactory. This is based on the Moderately Satisfactory ratings for Quality at Entry and
the Satisfactory rating for Supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory. Government Performance is rated Satisfactory. Government
performance is interpreted as the broader Government, i.e., the Ministry of Finance and
the Ministry of the Presidency. Although there were some delays in the resolution of
implementation issues during the first semester of the Project, the GoN was extremely
supportive after the restructuring and provided close monitoring and supervision. The
GoN showed ownership and commitment during the short implementation of the Project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. Overall, the implementing agency’s performance is
rated Moderately Satisfactory. Despite MAGFOR’s openness to strengthen the fiduciary
capacity at MINED when needed, the intensive technical supervision efforts, and the
fairly strong financial capacity at MAGFOR sustained throughout the lifetime of the
Project, there were moderate shortcomings specifically in terms of timely restructuring
the Project and in contracting the financial and the technical audit reports on time.




                                            14
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The Borrower’s overall performance is rated
Moderately Satisfactory given that the Government and the Implementing Agency
performance ratings are Satisfactory and Moderately Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
The lessons learned in this Project include:

 (a) High level commitment, both by the Bank and Government, is critical in
 preparing emergency operations and increasing effectiveness. In the case of this
 Project, the multi-sector team composition was a strong point. In addition, in the case
 of emergency Projects, there are special considerations of complexity in the design and
 the readiness of the implementing agency. A simple design of emergency operations, as
 that of Component 1, is a key factor for success. Complexity in the design and low
 readiness, as that of Component 2, pose strong implementation constraints that would
 eventually lead to re-assessments of the scope of the intervention.

 (b) Based on this experience, the Government and the Bank are in a better position
 to evaluate that an emergency operation under Bank financing is more effective if
 it finances a program that is already installed and reaches the beneficiaries
 quickly, such as PINE. This Project had the opportunity to inject resources into an
 existing program whose costs might increase and whose ability to deliver services
 could decline in a crisis. Thus, the Project facilitated the continued operation of PINE
 in the face of critical budget restrictions in Nicaragua during the food price and
 financial crises. On the other hand, the teams also learned that innovations and
 improvements in Programs, specifically those that aim to improve sustainability in the
 agricultural sector, are probably better evaluated and supported under long-term
 operations. If the Government decides to use emergency windows for addressing future
 crisis (caused by climate shocks), adaptations to key operational aspects of agricultural
 programs such as PAS would need to be introduced to guarantee a more effective
 implementation. The adaptations might include: (i) considering a credit scheme better
 tailored for an emergency for poor farmers, (ii) adapting the provision of inputs by
 using local supplies, and (iii) simplifying the implementation arrangements for
 emergency operations, among others.

 (c) Another important lesson is that emergency operations may provide an
 opportunity for crafting longer-term responses to vulnerability. The Project was
 used as an opportunity to move forward the long-standing agenda for developing
 emergency responses to food price crisis in a country that constantly faces them and
 needs a comprehensive long term response. Component 1 proved to be an effective
 vehicle in time of crisis to protect the school age population. The lessons learned under
 Component 2 and fed into the design of the Additional Financing to APT-II supported
 the construction of a medium-term response by increasing the sustainable supply of
 basic grain seed, thereby reducing the chance of future shortages and increasing future
 agricultural productivity.




                                               15
 (d) Overall, sustained and continuous fiduciary capacity building is needed for
 implementing agencies in Nicaragua since they are critical to implement
 emergency operations. In particular, the procurement capacity of the implementing
 agencies has to be improved, as well as the coordination on operational aspects among
 implementing agencies, in order to timely resolve execution bottlenecks. The technical
 assistance and intense supervision provided by the Bank has proven to be effective
 given the short Project implementation time frame.

 (e) The importance of monitoring and evaluation should not be underestimated in
 emergency operations. The Project had a strong focus and dedicated institutional
 efforts and resources to use their own systems to monitor the delivery of services on a
 timely basis. Technical audits proved to be a good mechanism to monitor the delivery
 of the services especially when the implementation period is short and to introduce
 improvements in the Program designs. For example, stronger coordination and
 monitoring efforts put in place to guarantee the timely delivery of the services by
 different institutions at local level (especially FCR and INTA) proved to be effective
 and should continue to be enhanced.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Government submitted its Project Completion Report on February 20, 2011. The
Report is in the Project files. Because the Government Completion Report was prepared
with inputs from different institutions according to the activities they implemented, there
were some inconsistencies among sections in the documents in terms of reporting definite
numbers on the final results indicators. For this reason, both the Bank and the
Government teams decided to have a workshop to agree on the final numbers and results
that were going to be included in this ICR and to discuss and provide comments to the
ICR. The Bank officially provided the draft ICR to the Government on April 7, 2011. The
aforementioned workshop was held on April 11, 2011. The main discussions are in
Annex 7. Specific comments include: (i) The Government requested that the comments
related to the problems with frequent turnover of staff be clarified to refer to problems
primarily in 2009; (ii) The Government asked that more information be added on the
nutrition-related activities; (iii) The Government requested to revise in the ICR the
number of days that were used with the first purchase of food to 120 days instead of 100
days; and (iv) The Government requested that additional information be added related to
emergencies caused by climate change and/or adverse climatic conditions.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable.




                                            16
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                     Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                        Appraisal
                                                       millions)
 PINE                                    4.3                6.0           139.2%
 PAS                                     3.0                1.3           43.3%

            Total Baseline Cost         7.3                 7.3
Physical Contingencies
                                        0.00                0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies
                                        0.00                0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs        7.30                7.3
Front-end fee PPF                       0.00                0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                      0.00                0.00            .00
     Total Financing Required           7.30                7.30




(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                     Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                   Cofinancing        (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                    millions)    millions)
Borrower                                         0.30         0.30         100%
Special Financing                                7.00         7.00         100%




                                          17
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1- Support of Integral School Nutrition Program- PINE (US$6.0
million, approximately 82 percent of the Grant amount)

PDO Outcome Indicators

Number of beneficiaries receiving school lunches and number of days. This
Component supported the provision of school lunches through the existing Integral
School Nutrition Program (PINE) in targeted municipalities. With an original allocation
of US$4.3 million, the Project estimated to provide lunches for 100 days to
approximately 263,000 pre-school and primary school children in 52 municipalities (in 8
departments) classified as high or very high food vulnerability or poverty. 13 A
restructuring was approved by the Country Director on March 29, 2010 to reallocate
US$1.7 million from Component 2 to this Component. The new total allocation for this
Component was US$6.0 million (US$0.3 million from counterpart funds and US$5.7
million from the Grant) allowing an increase of the target values for the number of days
of school lunches to 133 for the same targeted municipalities.

The component was implemented by an inter-institutional agreement with the Ministry of
Education (MINED). At the beginning, significant delays were experienced due to the
low procurement capacity at MINED (i.e., the first purchase of food was not concluded
until the last quarter of 2009). However, with constant support from the MAGFOR’s and
the Bank’s procurement teams the shortcomings were smoothly addressed.

The original allocation financed two food purchases which were distributed in three
different periods covering 120 days benefiting close to 236,000 children in the 51
originally targeted municipalities (funding for one of the original municipalities was
provided by the World Food Program, due to its very severe food insecurity conditions).
The periods covered were: November 3-30, 2009 for a period of 20 days; February 15-
April 24, 2010 for a period of 50 days; and August 2- October 7, 2010 for a period of 40
days.

In 2010, the third purchase was launched and benefited additional eligible schools
(according to the Grant Agreement “eligible schools? are those Recipient pre-school and
primary schools which meet the territorial and institutional criteria set forth in the
Operational Manual to benefit from activities under Part A of the Project) in 42
municipalities for 47 days benefiting close to 254,000 children. With decreasing food



13
  The targeting mechanism comprised two stages. The first stage ordered municipalities according to their
food vulnerability using the Food Vulnerability Map 2007 and prioritized high and very high vulnerable
municipalities that the WFP did not cover. The second stage ordered the remaining municipalities by
poverty level using the Unsatisfied Basic Needs Map developed in 2005 by the National Statistical Institute,
and prioritized severe to high poverty municipalities that were not covered by other programs.



                                                    18
prices and to guarantee the efficient and complete use of the resources, an extension of
the closing date was granted, from June 2010 to October 2010, which allowed MINED
launching two additional purchases (special purchases). The first one was granted on an
exceptional basis as a direct contracting based on the results of the third purchase (those
bidders that were competitively selected and maintained the prices of their last contracts).
This special purchase benefited 99,000 children in eligible schools for 15 days in 5
additional municipalities of the department of Managua, and 20,000 children for 10 days
in 4 additional municipalities of the department of Managua that experienced intensive
flooding due to the “El Niño? effect in the first semester of 2010. Finally, the second
special purchase comprised the purchase of cooking flour, that could not be procured
under the third purchase due to lack of proposals at bid opening, and benefited 46,000
children in eligible schools in 12 municipalities of Nueva Segovia for 10 days. Thus, with
the reallocation of the Grant´s proceeds the Project financed in 2010 one additional food
purchase and two special purchases that were distributed in three moments: August 18-
October 29, 2010; Nov 8 – November 26, 2010; and November 15- November 26, 2010
respectively.

In summary, the Component provided school lunches to about 236,000 pre-school and
primary school children for a period of 120 days; to another 254,000 children for 47 days;
to another 99,000 children for 15 days, and to another 20,000 children for 10 days. This
represents a total of 609,000 pre-school and primary school children attended for
different lengths of time. This surpasses the target set when the Project was restructured
(when the number of children was estimated at about 252,000), which reflects the fact
that MINED was able to organize in total five purchases and distributions before Project
closure (three regular purchases and two special purchases). The original estimate was
that MINED would only be able to organize two regular purchases and distributions.


Year      Beneficiaries                       No.      No.           Date        of   No.       No.
                                              Days     Purchase      Distrib.         Item      Municipali
                                                                                      ***       ties
          Pre-       Primary     Total
          school
2009      5,659      94,845      100,504      20       First         Nov 2009         5         17
2010      21,089     230,949     252,038      50       First         Feb-Apr          5         51
                                                                     2010
2010      20,801     215,110     235,911      50       Second        Aug-Oct          5         51
                                                                     2010
2010      24,669     229,618     254,287      47       Third         Aug-Oct          5         42*
                                                                     2010
2010      3,720      95,208      98,928       15      First          Nov 2010          3          5*
                                                      Special
2010      1,587      18,429      20,016       10      First          Nov 2010          3          4*
                                                      Special
2010      5,704      40,701      46,405       10      Second         Nov 2010          1          12**
                                                      Special
*Eligible schools in additional municipalities were benefited in order to distribute all the products procured
under the Project in 2010.
**These 12 municipalities are part of the 51 originally targeted but one of the items (cooking flour) could
not be delivered because no bidders were present at the opening of the third purchase. Thusan international


                                                     19
shopping process was approved to purchase this item in the last quarter of the Project implementation
period.
*** The five items included rice, corn, mixed cereals, beans, vegetable oil and cooking flour. In the first
special purchase the Project procured rice, beans and mixed cereals in order to attend the floodi affected
areas of Managua and to totally absorb the allocations of funds. In the second special purchase the Project
procured cooking flour.

Intermediate Outcome Indicators

The targets for the intermediate outcome indicators for this component were fully
achieved and were not affected at restructuring.

Retention rates in public primary schools in targeted areas. The retention rates in
targeted municipalities evolved from 84.8 percent in 2008, to 96 percent in 2009, and
98.6 percent in 2010 compared to the expected targets set at Appraisal of 90 percent and
91.2 percent, respectively.

Attendance rates in public primary schools in targeted areas. The attendance rates in
targeted municipalities evolved from 78.8 percent in 2008, to 83 percent in 2009, and
80.8 percent in 2010 compared to the expected targets set at Appraisal of 83.0 percent
and 81.5 percent, respectively.

Number of schools that have received training materials on food security and
nutrition. The component also supported activities aimed at improving existing
programs and strengthening the national systems in place to address child nutrition
concerns, as part of the National Food and Nutrition Security Policy. These activities
included the capacity building process at school level carried out by MINED in order to
strengthen teachers’, pupils’ and the education community’s knowledge on food
consumption in all the municipalities of the Autonomous Regions of the Atlantic Coast,
financing the cost of materials, manuals, booklets and workshops agreed in the IPP. The
dissemination of the School Food Consumption Survey that was originally planned to be
financed was covered by other devoting the remaining funds to finance the capacity
building activities.

The Project benefited 1,624 schools with the capacity building activities in the
Autonomous Regions out of the 1,636 originally estimated. The workshops were
completed in 2009, and the culturally adapted materials distributed in 2009 and 2010.
With this the implementation of the IPP was completed.

Component 2. The Agro-Seeds Program (US$ 1.3million, 18 percent of the Grant
amount)
This Component supported the Agro-Seeds Program (Programa Agroalimentario de
Semilla-PAS) which distributed a technological package of certified seeds, fertilizers, and
training and technical assistance to qualified beneficiaries in the form of a credit. The
inputs were provided as a credit that could be reimbursed with in-kind contributions or in
cash at the end of each agricultural cycle, and funds were intended to be used for the
following planting season. Specifically, the Component financed the purchase and


                                                   20
distribution of seeds and fertilizers as well as technical assistance and financial training
workshops for producers, as well as operational costs resulting from Project
implementation and monitoring and evaluation activities. The Component was executed
by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAGFOR) with the support of the Rural
Development Institute (IDR), the Nicaraguan Agricultural Technology Institute (INTA),
the Nicaraguan Basic Food Company (ENABAS), and the Rural Credit Fund (FCR).

Outcome Indicators and Intermediate Outcome indicator related to Component Coverage
The Component originally intended to assist 31,590 small producers from rain-fed
agricultural areas where the agricultural cycle is most compromised every planting
season14. However, the scope of this component was downsized because of the presence
of unexpected natural phenomena that impacted negatively the component’s
implementation pace and expected outcome as well as some start up implementation
delays. In particular, the main causes were: (i) the negative impact of the “El Niño?
phenomenon that caused droughts that impacted the agricultural production of the
Postrera 2009-201015 planting season, affecting targeted areas of the project and basic
grains such as maize, frijol and sorghum; (ii) the serious problems in the agricultural
cycle anticipated at the end of 2009 by the Nicaraguan Institute of Territorial Studies
(INETER) that delayed the Apante planting season (corresponding to cycle 2009-2010)
and the Primera and Postrera planting season (corresponding to cycle 2010-2011) with
unexpected intensive rain from November 2009 through June 2010; and (iii) the risk
aversion from small farmers that prevented them to take the credit and technological
package because they did not foresee a possibility to repay their commitments given the
adverse climate conditions.

Another factor that slowed down the implementation was that the original design of the
institutional arrangements was very complicated in terms of the number of implementing
organizations involved. The lack of coordination among institutions and their insufficient
readiness at start up, and most intensively experienced at the local level, were key factors
affecting the implementation pace. The original design also considered innovations in the
approach in terms of providing a credit line in the time of crisis to small farmers. This has
been the Government´s credit policy since 2007 and the expected significant impacts
were not given sufficient weight at start up. The country under previous administrations
had granted the inputs as in kind-transfers and benefited from strong cooperatives of
small farmers. For example, the transaction costs for accessing the credit line were high
when small farmers did not meet the criteria to apply individually and had to be formed
into a cooperative. Using the database from the Libra por Libra Program was an
advantage but did not allow completely fulfilling the expected results.




14
   Departments of Matagalpa, Jinotega, Nueva Segovia and Boaco. Selected areas of the Atlantic Coast in
close proximity to these four departments were also to be included.
15
   Each agricultural cycle has three planting seasons: Primera, Postrera and Apante. The Project benefited
small farmers for Postrera and Apante planting seasons of the 2009-2010 agricultural cycle and for the
Primera and Postrera planting seasons of the 2010-2011 agricultural cycle.


                                                   21
Given this context, the implementation of this component was rated Moderately
Unsatisfactory in terms of contributing to achieve the PDO for most of the first year of
the life of the Project. In 2009, the Component benefited only 1,701 small farmers and
2,190 areas were planted, which were significantly behind the expected results at
Appraisal (12,636 and 10,300 respectively). Most of these beneficiaries lost their harvest
due to the drought and the unexpected “El Niño? effect that provoked intensive rain by
early 2010. The GoN decided not to purchase the fertilizers through IDR as agreed at
Appraisal but to finance the provision of fertilizers from the national budget. The
purchase of seeds followed the approved scheme at Appraisal through ENABAS. The
Component also financed the training workshops and monitoring expenses.

At the beginning of 2010, the GoN requested a reallocation of the Grant proceeds to
transfer US$1.7 million from Component 2 to Component 1. The Project Development
Objective, the design, the expected outcomes, and the targeting mechanism remained
unchanged, but adjustments of the target values for the expected outcomes indicators
were introduced for the second year of the Project to reflect the changes in the scope.
Specifically, for Component 2 the Area planted with seeds provided by the Project was
reduced from 26,030 to 14,762 manzanas. The number of farmers that received seed,
fertilizer and technical assistance in targeted areas was reduced from 31,590 to 9,266.

In 2010, this Component benefited 7,109 small farmers in targeted areas totaling 15,407
areas planted with seeds provided by the Project. In summary, at the end of the Project
17,597 areas were planted with seeds provided by the Project and a total of 8,810 small
farmers were benefited in two planting cycles 2009/2010 and 2010/2011.

Other Intermediate Outcome Indicators. The targets for the intermediate outcome
indicators for this component were also adjusted at restructuring. At the end of the project
all targets were satisfactorily met. The yields of maize and sorghum increased from
1,012 to 1,821 and from 552 to 651, respectively. The amount paid back as a percentage
of the value of inputs provided within the stipulated period reached only 25 percent for
the first year of the Project. The measurement for the second year will not be available
until the end of 2011.

                             Baseline   Projection     Projection      Results    at    project
                                        Target         Target          completion
                                        At Appraisal   At
                                                       restructuring
Project Outcome Indicators
                           38,022                                      20,801 in 51 muni.
Number of pre-school                                                   24,669 in 42 muni.
children receiving lunches              38,022         35,411          3, 720 in 5 muni.
in targeted areas                                                      1, 587 in 4 muni.
                                                                       50,777 total
                             225,009                                   215,110 in 51 muni.
Number of primary school                                               229,618 in 42 muni.
children receiving lunches              225,009        216,627         95, 208 in 5 muni.
in targeted areas                                                      18, 429 in 4 muni.
                                                                       558,365 total
Number of days children      65         50             133             120 days in 51 muni.



                                                  22
received school lunches                                                47 days in 42 muni.
                                                                       15 days in 5 muni.
                                                                       10 days in 4 muni
                                                                       172 total
Area planted with seeds      n/a
                                        26,030          14,762          17,597
provided by Project
Project Intermediate Outcomes
Component 1: Integral School Nutrition Program
Retention rates in public    84.8%
primary schools in                      90%             91.2%           98.6%
targeted areas
Attendance rates in public 78.8%
primary schools in                      83%             81.5%           80.1%
targeted areas
Number of schools that       0
have received training
                                        0               1624            1,624
materials on food security
and nutrition
Component 2: Agro-Seeds Program
Number of farmers that       0
received seed, fertilizer
                                        31,590          9,266           8,810
and technical assistance in
targeted areas
Yields of maize kg/ha        1,012      1,288            1,380*         1,821
Yields of beans kg/ha        552        920             754*            651
Yields of sorghum kg/ha      1,610      1,840           n/a             n/a
Amount paid back as % of 0
                                                                        25 (pertaining to cycle
value of inputs provided                70              100
                                                                        2009/2010)
within stipulated period
*Targets at restructuring were set by an omission at 3,737 and 3,017 respectively. The table shows the
revised targets.




                                                 23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The Emergency Food Price Response Project was implemented right after the
international food crisis hit Nicaragua hard witha surge in food prices in 2007 and 2008
that translated into overall inflation (see Figure 1). The peak was registered in August
2008, when food inflation reached 35 percent compared with theyear before. The food
crisis and the subsequent world financial and economic crisis have had significant
negative effects on the Central American countries, Nicaragua not being an exception:
after 13 years of consecutive GDP growth during 1995-2008 at an average rate of 4
percent, the economy contracted by 1.5 percent in 2009. Migrant remittances, an
important source of income for the country, also declined by 6 percent in that year.

Figure 1: Overall Inflation and Food Inflation in Nicaragua, 2005-2011
                          40
                          35
                          30
 % change previous year




                          25
                          20
                          15
                          10
                           5
                           0
                                Jan?05




                                                           Jan?06




                                                                                       Jan?07




                                                                                                                  Jan?08




                                                                                                                                             Jan?09




                                                                                                                                                                        Jan?10




                                                                                                                                                                                                   Jan?11
                                         May?05
                                                  Sep?05


                                                                     May?06
                                                                              Sep?06


                                                                                                May?07
                                                                                                         Sep?07


                                                                                                                           May?08
                                                                                                                                    Sep?08


                                                                                                                                                      May?09
                                                                                                                                                               Sep?09


                                                                                                                                                                                 May?10
                                                                                                                                                                                          Sep?10
                           ?5
                          ?10
                                                                    Overall Inflation                                                             Food Inflation

Source: Central Bank of Nicaragua

In this context, it was expected that the poor were the most affected by the food price and
economic crisis: household survey data for 2005 showed that the share of food items in
overall consumption was 65 percent for those at the bottom quintile of the income
distribution, compared with 40 percent for those at the top quintile. Nevertheless,
moderate and extreme poverty managed to decline before and after the crisis, from 48.3
and 17.2 percent respectively in 2005 to 42.5 and 14.6 percent respectively in 2009. A
combination of higher farm incomes and a variety of social programs that seem to have
contributed to a reduction in income inequality seem to explain this poverty decline over
the period.

Aside from its potential impact on incomes and consumption, the food crisis could have
exerted longer lasting negative effects on human capital accumulation among poor
uninsured households. Recent evidence from El Salvador and Indonesia suggests that the




                                                                                                                                     24
2008 food crisis could have increased child malnutrition in those countries.16 Similarly,
families may decide to withdraw children from school, either because of lack of cash for
transportation, books and clothing, or to increase the labor supply of the household, with
children helping in home production or working outside the home. This type of risk-
management mechanism can push households deeper into chronic poverty through long-
term losses in productivity and an increased likelihood of intergenerational transmission
of poverty.

Component 1: Support of Integral School Nutrition Program-PINE

The Emergency Food Price Response Project seems to have counteracted some of the
potential impacts of the crisis, in particular those on schooling outcomes, through the
Programa Integral de Nutrición Escolar (PINE). This program provides school lunches
to all children in public pre-primary and primary schools, and its objectives are to
increase the intake of nutritive and fortified food amongst children of pre-school and
primary school age, increase school attendance, decrease dropouts in preschools and
primary schools, and strengthen community participation and the adoption of good
feeding and sanitary practices in public and community preschools and primary schools.
The program objectives and design are consistent with international experience which
reveals that school nutrition programs, when well-designed and targeted, can have a
positive impact on nutritional status and on school attendance and performance.

Lack of school lunches could result in increased drop-outs, lower enrolment, and/or lower
attendance, especially among poor children. Thanks to the decline in food prices after
project implementation and the allocation of additional resources originally budgeted for
Component 2, PINE was able to double the number of school lunches and thus serve a
larger number of beneficiaries than expected at appraisal. Project indicators at baseline
and at project completion show that in districts with at least 100 days of school meals
served and 10,000 beneficiaries, attendance and retention rates in pre-primary and
primary schools increased from 84.8 and 78.8 percent respectively, to 90 and 82 percent.
In departments like Chinandega, Boaco, Esteli, and Chontales, these indicators increased
even further compared with the status pre- project intervention (Figure 2).

PINE is one of the most progressive programs in Nicaragua. It shows an overall
concentration index of -0.2, even higher in regions like Managua. 17 This is mainly
because the program targets public schools, where most of the children from poor
families tend to attend. In addition to this, it contributes to the implementation of the food



16
  De Brauw and Murrugarra (2010), “How CCTs Help Sustain Human Capital During Crises? Evidence
from Red Solidaria in El Salvador During the Food Price Crisis;? Skoufias, Tiwari, and Zaman (2011),
“Can We Rely on Cash Transfers to Protect Dietary Diversity During Food Crises? Estimates from
Indonesia?, World Bank.

17
  The concentration index takes values between -1 and 1, with negative values indicating a progressive
distribution, positive values indicating a regressive distribution, and a zero value indicating an equal
distribution among population groups.


                                                  25
security curricula in primary education and the development of the community initiatives
such as the “school gardens? (Huertos escolares).

Figure 2: School Retention and Attendance Rates, at Baseline and Project Completion.

                            Retention Rate                                                                                      Attendance Rate
     100.0%                                                                                              100.0%
      95.0%                                                                                                  95.0%
      90.0%                                                                                                  90.0%
      85.0%                                                                                                  85.0%
      80.0%                                                                                                  80.0%
      75.0%                                                                                                  75.0%
      70.0%                                                                                                  70.0%




                                                                                                                                                                                                 Leon
                                                                                                                     RAAS
                                                                                         Leon
                         Esteli
              RAAS




                                                                                                                                                                                    Chinandega




                                                                                                                                                                                                        Boaco
                                                                                                                                                     Chontales
                                                                            Chinandega




                                                                                                Boaco
                                              Chontales


                                                             Rio San Juan




                                                                                                                                Esteli


                                                                                                                                         Matagalpa
                                  Matagalpa




                                                                                                                                                                     Rio San Juan
                     Baseline                             Project Completion                                                Baseline                             Project Completion

Source: Ministry of Education.


Cost-benefit analysis: the estimated increase in primary enrollment and retention rate
suggests that beneficiary children would acquire additional years of education thanks to
the project, with longer-term impacts in terms of future higher earnings. The long-term
impact of the Project can be estimated through an analysis of the returns to primary
education. Controlling for other observable characteristics of individuals, individuals
with complete primary education earn on average salaries that are 14 percent higher than
those with incomplete primary education.18 Given that 235,000 children in pre-primary
and primary school were beneficiaries of at least 100 days of school lunches, and
considering a conservative estimate of just a 3 percentage point increase in primary
school enrollment thanks to the school feeding program (in line with the administrative
data showed in Figure 2), this suggests that 7,000 children could have dropped out of
school if the project had not been implemented. On average, Nicaraguans with
incomplete primary education earn US$176 a month, and in a conservative scenario that
the program will only help children to complete primary education, at least a 14 percent
return to primary completion will be expected, which will translate into an extra US$25 a
month of future earnings. Applying a standard annual discount rate of 5 percent over the
active life cycle of individuals (40 years of work), this estimation indicates that the
expected lifetime benefits per children will amount to around US$5,150. Therefore, the
overall lifetime private benefits from approximately 7,000 children resuming schooling
can be valued at around US$36 million, which is 532 percent larger than the overall cost
of the subcomponent of US$5.7 million.




18
     See World Bank Project Appraisal Document for the Nicaragua Social Protection Project (2010), Annex
7.


                                                                                                        26
Fiscal Sustainability: Expenditures in this component represent the equivalent of just 5.5
percent of the Government’s pre-primary and primary education spending, or about 2.7
percent of the total education budget in 2009. The program has continuously benefited
from the support of various donor agencies (including the World Food Program, the
American-Nicaraguan Foundation, as well as a group of bilateral donors who provide
general support to the Ministry for its overall programs), including the World Bank
through its recently approved Nicaragua Social Protection Lending Project that will
finance the continuation of PINE for 110 school days in an amount of US$4.5 million.
The Government is expected to sustain PINE as nutrition interventions are a core priority
of the National Human Development Plan and the National Food and Nutrition Security
Policy. Further, the Government is trying to reduce the unit cost of food through a
planned decentralization of the management of the PINE to regional bodies and local
purchases of food. The IMF has recently highlighted the recovery in revenues in 2010
that followed the food and financial crisis, and recommended as critical to create further
fiscal space for investment and well-targeted poverty spending.19


Component 2: Support of Agro-Seeds Program-PAS

Agricultural productivity differences are large in Nicaragua, especially between different
producer sizes and regions. Large agricultural producers display productivity levels that
are more than six times higher than among small producers. In Nicaragua, the utilization
of agricultural inputs is generally low with large differences between types of producers.
Only 10 percent of all producers use certified seeds, 6 percent use organic fertilizers, 37
percent use chemical fertilizers, and 67 percent use pesticides. Utilization rates are
significantly lower among small producers and in poorer regions.

The policy framework for the sector is given by the National Human Development Plan,
which accords a high priority to utilizing agricultural inputs, such as certified seeds,
organic and chemical fertilizers and pesticides, with the aim of boosting productivity. In
concordance with this policy, the Government implemented the Agro-Seeds Program
(PAS) in 2007, which distributes a technological package of certified seeds, fertilizers,
and training and technical assistance to qualified beneficiaries in the form of a credit. The
inputs are valued at market-prices and the package is provided as a credit that can be
reimbursed with in-kind contributions or in cash at the end of each agricultural cycle, and
funds would be used for the following season. Budgetary constraints in 2008, however,
were preventing the Government from making substantial allocations to the program.

The project component intended to target PAS to around 31,600 small producers in areas
which were particularly affected by the 2008 food crisis, and in principle presented large,
untapped, production potential. Within these areas, small producers with access to limited
plots (under 3.5 hectares) but with experience in basic grain production were prioritized
as they were potentially the most vulnerable, but could also benefit greatly from


19
  IMF (2010), “Nicaragua: Fourth and Fifth Review Under the Three-Year Arrangement Under the
Extended Credit Facility.?


                                             27
investments in productive inputs, in particular seeds and fertilizer. However, the project
had to be restructured at the beginning of 2010 due to the lower program take-up. By
November 2009 only a sixth of the targeted beneficiaries were in PAS. The “El Niño?
phenomenon caused droughts that impacted negatively the agricultural production of the
Postrera planting season, affecting targeted areas of the project and basic grains such as
maize, frijol and sorghum. Risk aversion from small farmers prevented them to take the
credit and technological package because they did not foresee a possibility to repay the
credit given the drought conditions. Therefore, after restructuring, the target beneficiaries
of the component were reduced to 9,266.

In fact, by project completion a total of 8,810 farmers were reached by the project. While
the number of beneficiaries was well below the intended objectives of the component at
project start, at least the area planted with seeds provided by the Project surpassed the
10,400 manzanas targeted at the project restructuring stage, to reach a total of 17,597
manzanas. The outcomes related to the yields of the crops showed mixed results: yields
for maize were 1,821 kg/ha, well above the 1,380 envisaged at project start, but for beans
yields were 651 kg/ha, below the target of 754.

Targeting: The program intended to target beneficiaries within the selected areas of
interventions on the basis of the following criteria:

•      Have a plot between 0.7 and 3.5 hectares
•      Have land apt for basic grain production
•      Have experience in cultivating basic grains (maize, beans and sorghum)
•      Do not carry out slash and burn agriculture
•      Be willing to sign an “I-Owe-You? to pay back the credit for seeds and inputs
•      Have an identity card.

However, the technical audit of the component found out that some of these requirements
were not completely fulfilled in practice and need to be improved for the future operation
of the PAS. For instance, around 17 percent of a subsample of beneficiaries did not have
a plot.

Fiscal sustainability: At appraisal, the program was expected to have a very limited
fiscal impact, as the producers would be expected to repay the credit after they harvested
the production realized with the distributed seeds and fertilizer. However, only 25 percent
of the loans were paid back as stipulated during the first cycle. Therefore, fiscal
sustainability of the intervention is questionable, and unless enforcement of payment
conditions are revised the program would not be sustainable over time.




                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
           Names                           Title               Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
                                                             LCSHS- Task Team Leader
Aline Coudouel             Senior Economist
                                                              DPT
                                                             LCSHS-
Patricia Orna              Language Program Assistant               Program Assistant
                                                              DPT
Supervision/ICR
                                                             LCSHS-
Aline Coudouel             Senior Economist                           Task Team Leader
                                                              DPT
Miriam Montenegro          Operations Officer                LCSHS    Task Team Leader
Augusto Garcia             Operations Officer                LCSAR    Agriculture
Wilhelmus Gerardus Janssen Lead Agriculturist                LCSAR    Agriculture
                                                             LCSHS-
Nurys Matos-Smith          E T Temporary                              Team Assistant
                                                              DPT
Anemarie Guth Proite       Procurement Specialist            LCSPT    Procurement
                                                                      Financial
Enrique Antonio Roman      Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM
                                                                      Management
 Carlos Francisco Siezar   E T Consultant                     LCCNI   Private Sector
Jessica Acosta             ST Temporary                       LCSHS   Team Assistant
Patricia Orna              Language Program Assistant         LCSHS   Program Assistant
Mayela Murillo             Program Assistant                  LCCNI   Program Assistant
Marco Rosa                 ST Consultant                      LCSHS   Agriculture
Kristine Ivarsdotter       Social Safeguards Specialist       LCSOS   Safeguards
Patricia Parera            ST Consultant                      LCSAR   Agriculture
Pablo Acosta               Economist                          LCSHS   Economist


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending                                       23.15                     108.4
                           Total:             23.15                     108.4
Supervision/ICR                               55.38                     164.9
                                                                        273.3
                           Total:             78.53




                                            29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)Not applicable.




                                      30
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)Not applicable




                                   31
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


The Government submitted its Project Completion Report on February 20, 2011. The
Report is in the Project files. Because the Government Completion Report was prepared
with inputs from different institutions according to the activities they implemented, there
were some inconsistencies among sections in the document on some indicators. For this
reason, both the Bank and the Government teams decided to have a workshop to agree on
the final numbers and results to be included in this ICR and to discuss and provide
comments to the ICR. The Bank officially provided the draft ICR to the Government on
April 7, 2011. The aforementioned workshop was held on April 11, 2011. The main
discussions are summarized as follows.
COMMENTS OF BORROWER TO THE DRAFT ICR
General comments
  The Government requested an explanation of the rating of the Project with regard to
    the performance of Component 1 and Component 2 along with the performance of
    procurement corresponding to 2009. The Bank’s team explained that the ratings
    provided in the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) reflected the results relative
    to the initial targets, the risks linked to project objectives, the overall performance of
    the Bank, and the overall performance of the Borrower. The Government agreed with
    the proposed ICR ratings.
  In relation to the financial audit of the Project, the MAGFOR confirmed that before
    April 15, it will hold a meeting with the MHCP and MINED to agree on the
    mechanism to return the unused advance of US$15,558.07. The meeting will allow
    compliance with the expected date for the delivery of the Project’s audit report to the
    World Bank.

Specific comments on Component 1
  The Government requested that the comments related to the problems with frequent
   turnover of staff be clarified to refer to problems primarily in 2009, since the
   principal issue with the Project was related to the procurement capacity of MINED
   during 2009.
  The Government also asked that more information be added on the nutrition-related
   activities. For example, the ICR should explain that the school lunches are
   accompanied by nutritional education through the implementation of the curricula on
   nutrition and food security implemented in all pre-schools, and primary and
   secondary schools. In addition, the ICR should explain that the “school gardens?
   (Huertos escolares), which are considered as educational tools, also contribute to the
   improvement of the nutritional status of the school children.
 The Government also requested to revise in the ICR the number of days that were
   used with the first purchase of food to 120 days instead of 100 days.

Specific comments Component 2
  The Government requested that additional information be added related                   to
   emergencies caused by climate change and/or adverse climatic conditions.



                                             32
MAIN RESULTS –FROM THE GOVERNMENT COMPLETION REPORT.
Component 1- Support of Integral School Nutrition Program- PINE
  Component 1 was originally designed to provide school lunches to 263,031 school
   children for 100 days. The Component was expanded with the re-allocation of
   expenditures that financed a new purchase of food in 2010. At the end of the Project,
   the component financed three regular purchases and two special purchases of food
   that were distributed in different times in 2009 and 2010 in the schools. In general
   terms, the component benefited with school lunches about 235,911 children for 120
   days; 254,287 for 47 days; 98,928 for 15 days; and 20,016 for 10 days. The specific
   details on days, municipalities, metric tons, schools, and beneficiaries are depicted in
   the main report.
  The technical assistance and training on food security that Component 1 supported
   allowed improvements in the nutrition and food security curriculum that is
   implemented in the public schools in the Autonomous Atlantic Regions of Nicaragua.
   Through the Indigenous Peoples Plan of the Project (Plan de Pueblos Indígenas), this
   Component financed training workshops in 1,624 schools in the local education
   community (teachers, students, parents) in food security, health, hygiene, and the
   preparation of the culturally adapted meals. The South Autonomous Atlantic Region
   also benefited from school lunches.
  This component was able to increase the retention rates in public pre-schools and
   primary schools in targeted municipalities from 84.8 percent in 2008 to 98.6 percent
   in 2010. The attendance rates also increased from 78.8 percent to 80.1 percent for the
   same period of time.
  With inputs from this Project, the MINED prepared two operations financed with the
   Bank in 2010 which are: the Nicaragua Food Emergency Support Program for School
   Children (TF 097212) and the Nicaragua Social Protection Project (CR. 4862). Both
   of them support the continued implementation and strengthening of the PINE. They
   also updated the financing scheme for the World Food Program 2008-2012 for the
   following years that covers 175,000 children with school lunches for 150 days.
Component 2- The Agro-Seeds Program-PAS
  Component 2 originally intended to cover 31,590 small farmers in four departments
   of Nicaragua (Boaco, Jinotega, Matagalpa y Nueva Segovia). The Component
   provided a technological package that consisted of agricultural inputs as seeds and
   fertilizers, financial training and technical training to encourage the agricultural
   production. The scope of this Component was reduced and its targets revised due to
   adverse weather conditions (droughts in 2009 and floods in 2010) that deprived the
   agricultural production of small farmers, and that reduced their interest to take the
   credit that the Program offered because of the uncertainty of their repaying capacity.
  After the restructuring and by Project closure, 8,810 producers were benefited by this
   Component. The Project benefited small farmers for the Postrera and Apante planting
   seasons of the 2009-2010 agricultural cycle and for the Primera and Postrera
   planting seasons of the 2010-2011 agricultural cycle. A total of 17,597 manzanas
   were planted with the funds from the Project. A detailed descriptions of the numbers
   of training sessions, quantity of inputs provided, number of farmers and organizations,
   among others are provided in the main report.


                                            33
 This Component required a high level of inter- institutional coordination to allow the
  implementing units to unify efforts and to take advantages of the strengths in human
  resources and financial resources to improve Project effectiveness. The Component
  required detailed and planned coordination efforts from the implementing units
  (INTA, FCR, ENABAS and MAGFOR) to guarantee timeliness in the provision of
  services. For example, the FCR and INTA had to coordinate their timings for the
  provision of training workshops at the local level; and together with MAGFOR
  coordinate the delivery of a timely agricultural package.
 The Project complied with the environmental safeguards and the training materials
  financed by the Component 2 are still in use by the overall Program. For example, the
  training toolkits (morralitos) are posted on MAGFOR’s webpage and producers or
  technicians can access and use them for future planting cycles.


LESSONS LEARNED- FROM THE GOVERNMENT COMPLETION REPORT.
 The Project was planned to be executed in 12 months in 2009. However it took 24
  months to be completed given some delays at start up. A re-allocation of expenses
  was requested in 2010 as well as an extension of the closing date. The re-allocation of
  expenses allowed the Project to finance additional purchases of food under
  Component 1 and to cover two planting seasons under Component 2. The results
  indicators for both components were revised during restructuring. Monitoring
  activities were relevant for both components since they provided timely guidance for
  policy decisions, and specifically for the restructuring.
 Even if designed under an emergency context, the methodology of the training
  workshops under Component 2 was relevant since all participants could benefit from
  them in the target areas. The organization of the workshops around the working
  schedule of small farmers, the accessible training materials prepared by the Project,
  and the cascade methodology (from extension agents to local promoters and to
  producers) ensured effective and fast knowledge transfer.
 Small farmers are always exposed to environmental shocks in the planting cycles that
  negatively affect their production. Therefore, some mechanisms including protected
  production systems, post-cycle financial assistance, credit schemes, advantages of
  local markets, and/ or agricultural insurance services have to be considered for future
  operations in order to adapt the Component to emergency contexts.
 In terms of the program cycle, from preparation to closing, it is important to consider
  the correct timings to complete the activities that required the approval of the
  Government and the Bank. The adjustments that are frequent in the implementation
  of agricultural projects are hard to fine-tune with respect to the planting cycles.
  Therefore, special efforts are needed to implement emergency projects as well a
  capacity in the implementing units to execute Bank financed projects. For example, a
  minor delay in administrative processes potentially causes delays in the delivery of
  services in a timely manner according to the production cycle.




                                          34
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not applicable.




                                    35
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Coudouel, Aline. (2008), “ Food price crisis in Nicaragua: measures to mitigate the
impact of rising food prices on the poorest and most vulnerable groups?. Washington,
D.C: World Bank.

Davalos and Vakis (2011), “An Update on Poverty and Inequality in Nicaragua: 9
Stylized Facts (2005-2009)? World Bank.

De Brauw and Murrugarra (2010), “How CCTs Help Sustain Human Capital During
Crises? Evidence from Red Solidaria in El Salvador During the Food Price Crisis?;.

IMF (2010), “Nicaragua: Fourth and Fifth Review Under the Three-Year Arrangement
Under the Extended Credit Facility.?

MAGFOR, 2011. Informe Tecnico de Cierre. Programa de Emergencia Alimentaria
convenio N TF093698. MAGFOR.

Marquez, Jose (2008). Social Protection Public Expenditure Review. World Bank.

MINED, 2011. Borrador de Consulta. Estrategia Nacional de Educación. Gobierno de
Reconciliacion y Unidad Nacional. MINED.

Skoufias, Tiwari, and Zaman (2011), “Can We Rely on Cash Transfers to Protect Dietary
Diversity During Food Crises? Estimates from Indonesia?, World Bank

World Bank (2010). Project Paper on a Proposed Additional Financing for the Second
Agricultural Technology Project (GFRP). World Bank report No. 48607-NI.

World Bank (2009). Emergency Project Paper on a Proposed Grant under the GFRP for
an Emergency Food Price Response Project. World Bank Report No. 45672-NI.

World Bank (2008), Nicaragua Poverty Assessment, Volumens I, II, and III. The World
Bank, Nicaragua Poverty Assessment 2008.

World Bank (2010). Project Appraisal Paper on a Proposed Loan on a Social Protection
Project. World Bank.




                                          36
                                                                                                        87°W                                                                                          86°W                                                                                   85°W                                                                                 84°W                                                                 83°W

             15°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        15°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Cabo Gracias
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        a Dios
                                                                                                                                                   HONDURAS                                                                                                                                                                                              To Auasbila
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Wani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Waspam                                      Lagoon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Leimus

                                                    NICARAGUA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Waspan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Wa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             wa                                                                                                     Cayos Miskitos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Pahara                                         Puerto Cabezas

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bocay                                         AT L ? N T I C O                                                                  Lagoon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NORTE                                                                  Puerto Cabezas




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 la
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Bonanza




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      o                                                                                                                                                                              Puerto Cabezas




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              el
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Boca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bonanza                                                                                                                                                      14°N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      uk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ama
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Co                                                                                                                                                            Karata




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                c




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       k
                                                                                     To Tegucigalpa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lagoon




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Wiwili de Jinotega                                                                                                    Rosita
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             La Rosita
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JINOTEGA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ya
                                                                                                                                                                                               Jalapa
                                                                                                                                                     Mogoton




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                                                                                   NUEVA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Cua - Bocay




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                                                    (2,438 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bamba




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Is
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Murra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Siuna
                                                                                                                               Santa Maria
                                                                                                                                                    Dipilto         San Fernando
                                                                                                                                                                                  SEGOVIA                                                                                                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kukalaya
             E L S A LVA D OR
                                                                                                                                                                                        El Jicaro




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           n
                                                                                                                                        Macuelizo               Ocotal                                   Wiwili de Nueva Segovia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Wounta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                                                          Mosonte
                                                                                                                                                      Ocotal    Ciudad Antigua
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Quilalí                 Wiwilí
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    r                                                                                                                                                       Lagoon




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    s t
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Quilali

                                                                                                                             Somoto                            MADRIZ                                                                                 le
                                                                                                                                       Somoto          Totogalpa
                                                                                                                                                                            TelpanecaSan Juan de Rio Coco                                                                                                   Siuna
                                        To San
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   il
                                                                                                                                                    Yalaguina                                                                                                                                                                                                               Prinzapolka

                                        Miguel                                                                                                           Palacaguina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Prin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   za
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        rd
                                                                                                                                      San Lucas                                                 Santa Maria de Pantasma
                                                                                                                                                                                              San Sebastián
                                                                                                                                                                                  San Sebatian de Yali                                                           Waslala                                                              p     olk a                                                                        Prinzapolka




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C o a
                                                                                                                                Las SabanasPueblo Nuevo Condega
                                                                                                                                                                                              de Yali
                                                                                                      San Pedro del Norte
                                                                                                                                        ESTEL?                                                                                    o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C
                                                                                                                            San Jose de Cusmapa
                                                                                                                                                                                     San Rafael de Norte
                                                           Gulf of
                                                                                                                 Cinco PinosSan Francisco del Norte
                                                                                                                                                                                 La Concordia                                                 Rancho Grande
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         alp
                                                                                                         Santo Tomas del Norte San Juan de Limay

                                                          Fonseca                                                                                                Estelí                                Jinotega

                                                       El Viejo                                                      Somotillo Achuapa
                                                                                                                                                                   Esteli
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Jinotega                   Turna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              El Tuma - La Dalia                                                                                GrandeCruz de Rio Grandeg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    La  de M at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           La Cruz de
             13°N                                           Potosi                                  Somotillo
                                                                                                                                                                                La Trinidad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Rio Blanco
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Río Grande Desembocadura del Rio Grande                                                                                                       13°N
                                      Punta Cosigüina                Agua         Puerto Morazan
                                                                            El Viejo                 Somotillo                                                 San Nicolas
                                                                                                                                                                                  Matagalpa                            MATAGALPA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            San Ramon                                              Rio Blanco
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Paiwas
                                                                                                                                                        El Sauce                                        Matagalpa

                                                                            CHINANDEGA
                                                                                                                        Villa Nueva
                                                                                                                                             El Sauce                            San Isidro                                                           Matiguas
                                                                                                                                                                                              Sebaco

                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sébaco                                                                                                                                s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Caribbean
                                                                        El Viejo                                                                        Santa Rosa del Peñon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 San Dionisio                  Muy Muy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Muy Muy                                                                                Kurinw á                        Nuevo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Amanecer
                                                                                                                                LÉON
                                                                                                        Chinandega                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     El Tortuguero
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Terrabona




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t o
                                                                                                                                                                                   Ciudad Dario                            Esquipulas

                                                                     Chinandega
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sea
                                                                                                                                         Larreynaga
                                                                                                                                                               El Jicaral

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AT L ? N T I C O
                                                                                                           Posoltega   Telica                                                                                    San Jose de los Remates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Boaco                                                           El Ayote                                                                       Laguna de Perlas
                                                                                         EL Realejo Chichigalpa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ía
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BOACO                                                                Siqu
                PACIFIC OCEAN
                                                                                                            Quezalguaque                                                San Franciso Libre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Boaco                                                                                                                                                                                   Perlas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SUR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Santa Lucia
                                                                                Corinto Corinto
                                                                                                                                                              MANAGUA
                                                                                   Corinto                                                                                                                                                                               Camoapa
                                                                                                                            Léon                                                                                                                 C                                                                                                                                                            Lagoon




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M o s q u i
                                                                                                                                         La Paz Centro


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Teustepe                                                                                                                                                                                                     Laguna de Perlas
                                                                                                                 Leon
                                                                                                                                                           Lake
                                                                                                                                                              Agua
                                                                                                                                                  La Paz Centro                                                                                                               La Libertad
                                                                                                                                                      Managua                                                                                         d
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Tipitapa                                                                                 Santo Domingo
             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                  Agua                                                                                                                                                                                        Kukra Hill
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Laguna                              Corn Island

             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                            San Benito Lorenzo                              il
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     San Francisco de Cuapa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      de Perlas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        le
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 San                                                                                                                                            El Rama
             shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                        Puerto                                      Mateare
                                                                                                                                      Nagarote                                                                                              Comalapa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Mico                                                    Esc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Corn Island
             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                Sandino               MANAGUA                 Ciudad Sandino
                                                                                                                                                                         Managua                                Granada
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        San Pedro de LovagoSanto Tomas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Juigalpa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Muelle de los Bueyes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Rama                    o nd i d o
                                                                                                                                                                                        MASAYA
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Tisma
                                                                                                                                                                                       Nindiri                                                               Juigalpa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Villa Sandino
                                                                                                                12° N
                                                                                                                                         Villa Carlos Fonseca                  Ticuantepe      Masaya                               Comalapa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Lóvago                                                                                                             Bluefields                                                                                    12°N
                                                                                                                                                            El Crucero
                                                                                                                                                                        Masaya                                    Granada
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CHONTALES
                                                                                                                                                                          La Concepcion
                                                                                                                                                                                        Nandasmo
                                                                                                                                                                        San MarcosMasatepeCatarina                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bluefields




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Granada                                                                                                    El Coral




                    NICAR A G U A
                                                                                                                                                               JinotepeEl Rosario Diriomo                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bay
                                                                                                                                                                                                         GRANADA
                                                                                                                                                                      Niquinihomo                               Granada
                                                                                                                                                  San Rafale del Sur                                                                                                                    Acoyapa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    h
                                                                                                                                                                                                Diria
                                                                                                                           Masachapa
                                                                                                                                                                         La Paz de Carazo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        o
                                                                                                                                                        CARAZO
                                                                                                                                                                   Diriamba                                       Granada
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Nueva
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Acoyapa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Granada
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Acoyapa                                      El Almendro
                                                                                                                                                                                La Conquista Nandaime
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Guínea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R?O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Nueva Guinea




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ta
                                                                                                                                                                                   Santa Teresa

                                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                 Jinotepe               Buenos Aires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Nicaragua                                                Morrito

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Pu n a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Puntta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Gorrda Blefields
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Go da
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SAN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       le
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Potosi
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Belen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I. de Ometepe
                                                                                                                                                                                           R I VA S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Agua Morrito
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Buenos AiresMoyogalpa
                                   DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                              Altagracia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Punta Gorda




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            nn
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tola

                                                                                                                                                                                                           RivasSan Jorge                                                                    San
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              JUAN   San Miguelito


                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                           Rivas




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Miguelito
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Peñas Blancas                                                                                                                                             Punta
                                   RIVERS                                                                                                                                     San Juan del Sur                      San Juan del Sur                                                         San Carlos                                                                                                Gorda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           San Carlos                                                                       Río In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Cardenas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        San CarlosSan Carlos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               San Carlos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               San Carlos                                          d io                Bay
                                   MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        San Carlos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            San Carlos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Castillo de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ElCastillo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          El


                                                                                                                11°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      La Concepcíon
                                   RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S                                         San Juan del Norte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     San Juan del Norte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       an                                                                       0          20             40             60 Kilometers




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33456R
                                   MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Jua n

                                   DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To San José
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C O S TA R I C A
APRIL 2010




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0       10          20         30         40    50 Miles
                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                    86°W                                                                                    85°W                                                                                  84°W                                                                   83°W
