                                                                                                           94069
Enhancing Social Protection Programs During Emergencies In Nicaragua
                                                                                                         April 16, 2012




    Protecting School Children from Food Price Shocks; Promoting Food
    security for the Poor


Overview
As Nicaragua sought to temper the effects of recent food price shocks, the World Bank joined
with the government in a project to address both the immediate impacts on the poor,
particularly school children, and the longer-term challenges of food security. The project
supported the provision of school lunches for about 609,000 school children through an
existing national program, provided nutrition training in the most vulnerable municipalities to
strengthen the national nutritional strategy, and supported the provision of certified grain seeds,
fertilizers, and training to 8,810 small farmers in the poorest municipalities during 2009 and
2010.


Challenge                                                           MULTIMEDIA
By the end of 2008, Nicaragua had experienced some of the          Video:
highest price increases in the Latin American region, as           Short video prepared for the Annual
natural disasters compounded the 28 percent annual                 Meetings 2011. Global Response,
increase in global food prices recorded between 2006 and           Local Success. The Food Price
                                                                   Crisis in Nicaragua. WB Production
2008. These events dramatically affected Nicaragua’s
                                                                   2011.
domestic food production and disproportionately hurt the
poor.                                                              Published:
The onset of fresh natural shocks, such as the “El Niño”           September 21,2011.
phenomenon, caused droughts and unexpected and
intensive rain that affected both the 2009 and 2010 planting         Video link
cycles. Small farmers bore the brunt of these impacts, as did
food production across the country more broadly
.                                                                    More Results

Approach
After Nicaragua was severely hit by the increase in food
prices in 2008, the government adopted a two-pronged
strategy that combined actions to support the most
                                                                     609,000
                                                                     school children were supported
vulnerable groups of the population and actions aimed at             by the project with the provision
expanding the supply of agricultural goods. The Bank sought          of school lunches

to assist the government by designing two operations. The
first built on existing programs with established systems to


                                                                     1,624
minimize risks and ensure prompt implementation. These
programs were the Integral School Nutrition Program (PINE)
and the Agro-Seeds Program (PAS). The second aimed to
improve the availability of, and access to, high quality seeds       schools had provision of food
                                                                     security and nutrition training
in order to sustainably increase agricultural productivity.
Indeed, while this project supported two core programs for
immediate relief for the poorest, it also contributed to

                                                                      6,504
strengthening the government’s ability to respond to crises in
general (in particular, through the strengthening of the
National Social Protection System, and the National Seeds
System). Under the PINE component, the project’s targeted             children were covered thorugh
                                                                      the project in el Sauce, Leon
areas included 51 municipalities classified as poor or having
high or very high food vulnerability. The PAS component
targeted 40 municipalities with high poverty and food
vulnerability.                                                       LEARN MORE

                                                                     Name of the Project:
Results                                                              Nicaragua Emergency Food Price
                                                                     Response Project (2009-2010).
Through this project, the Bank has contributed to the
achievement of the following results:                                Project Profile and materials on
                                                                     the World Bank site:
                                                                     Nicaragua: P114441 Emergency
       Provision of school lunches for approximately 609,000         Food Price Response Project.
       preschool and primary school children in targeted
       areas who attended school for different lengths of time       Implementation Completion and
       during the school years of 2009 and 2010.                     Results Report:
                                                                     Implementation Completion and
       Increased retention and attendance rates in public            Results Report ICR1826.
       primary schools in targeted areas from 85 percent to
       99 percent and from 79 percent to 81 percent,
       respectively, during the period 2008-2010.

       Provision of food security and nutrition training to approximately 1,624 schools in the
       most vulnerable municipalities of the Atlantic Coast regions throughout 2009.

       Distribution of certified grain seeds and fertilizers to a total of 8,810 farmers with small
       landholdings in the poorest municipalities for the planting cycles of 2009 and 2010,
       totaling 17,597 manzanas, or 12,318 hectares.

       Improvements in the maize yield from 1,012 to 1,821 kg/ha and in the yield for beans
       from 552 to 651 kg/ha for the period 2009-2010.



Bank Contribution
This project was financed out of the Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund in the amount of
US$7.0 million under the Global Food Price Response Program, a rapid-financing facility
established in May 2008. In addition to this project, the Bank has also successfully mobilized
financing for school feeding through a Japan Social Development Fund recipient executed
grant (US$2.7 million) and two additional IDA operations, one for the school feeding program
(US$4 million) and another for the agricultural sector (US$10 million).


Partners
There is a strong partnership among key development donors in Nicaragua’s agricultural
sector. Besides the World Bank, there are more than ten active donors (e.g. the Inter-
American Development Bank, International Fund for Agricultural Development, Swiss Agency
for Development and Cooperation, Spain, Finland, and UN agencies among others) in the
agricultural sector that coordinate efforts, investments, and analytical work under the leadership
of the Ministry of Agriculture. With respect to school feeding, the major external financing
partner has been the World Food Program that targets the 44 most vulnerable municipalities in
terms of food insecurity in the country. They have a four-year action plan to finance the
program, contributing close to US$4.0 million a year. The World Bank has contributed
approximately US$12 million to this program since 2009.
Moving Forward
This project showed to both the Bank and to the Government that there are critical elements in
preparing and implementing such emergency operations such as: using the operation as an
opportunity to craft longer-term responses to vulnerability; channeling the response through
programs that are already in place and reach the beneficiaries quickly, and introducing
operational adaptations to programs that aim to increase sustainability in the agricultural sector
under emergency contexts. Since this project, three operations have been designed that further
promote the efforts supported by this project and that benefited from its design: (i) Both the
Nicaragua Food Emergency Support Program for School Children and the Nicaragua Social
Protection Project that support the continued implementation and strengthening of the PINE;
and (ii) the Additional Financing to the Second Agricultural Technology Project, which aims to
strengthen the National Seed System.


Beneficiaries
In el Sauce, Leon, the project covered around 6,504 children. Juana del Carmen Valverde, a
mother of a primary school child in El Sauce, supported the School Food committees by taking
turns with other parents in the preparation of school lunches voluntarily. “There are kids that
come hungry to school because they do not have breakfast. Here in the school, they get their
lunch, and like my son, when they come home they say: ‘Mother, I already had something to
eat.’ I am very happy about that because there are a lot of parents who are extremely poor
and the lunch really helps them.”.
