Dcnment of
Th:^ World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8467-MOZ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AUGUST 14, 1990
Southern Africa Department
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Mozambican Metical (MT)
USD 1.00 - MT 935 (July 1990)
MT 1,000 = USD 1.07
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AERU      -    Agricultural Enterprise Restructuring Unit
AfDB      -    African Development Bank
AGRICOM   -    State Enterprise for Agricultural Marketing
BM        -    Bank of Mozambique (Banco de Mocambique)
BPD       -    People's Development Bank (Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento)
BSTM      -    Standard Totta Bank of Mozambique (Banco Standard Totta de
Mocambique)
CM        -    State Cashew Enterprise (Caju de Mocambique)
CNP       -    National Planning Commission
CCADR     -    Agricultural Credit and Rural Development Fund
CNSP      -    National Commission for Salaries and Prices
DEA       -    Directorate for Agricultural Economics
DINAGECA  -    National Directorate for Land Survey and Cadastre
DNE       -    CNP's Directorate of National Statistics
EAP       -    Economic Action Program, 1984-1986
ENACOMO   -    State Enterprise for Agricultural Exports
ERP       -    Economic Rehabilitation Program, 1987-1989
PAO       -    Food and Agriculture Organization
FEW       -    Field Extension Worker
FERS      -    Foreign Exchange Retention Scheme
FOT       -    Farmer Organization Team
FRELIMO   -    Front for the Liberation of Mozambique
(Official Government Party)
GOM       -    Government of Mozambique
GDP       -    Gross Domestic Product
IDA       -    International Development Association
IFAD      -    International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF       -    International Monetary Fund
INIA      -    National Agricultural Research Institute
LOMACO    -    Joint Government - Private Enterprise Farm
MOA       -    Ministry of Agriculture
MOCARGO   -    State Sea and Land Freight Company
MONAP     -    Mozambique Nordic Agricultural Program
PFI       -    Participating Financial Institution
PFP       -    Policy Framework Paper
PIC       -    Integrated Cashew Program
SEHi      -    State Secretariat for Agricultural Hydraulics
SEC       -    State Secretariat for Cashew
SIREMO    -    State Enterprise for the Operation and Maintenance
of the Chokwe Irrigation Scheme
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program
WB        -    World Bank
FISCAL YEAR:
Government of Mozambique:         January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL  USE ONLY
MUZABIQUE
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pane No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                              i
I.   Background                                                         1
A. Project Genesis                                                 1
B. Main Country Characteristics                                   1
C. Economic Context                                               2
D. The Agricultural Sector                                         3
E. The Financial Sector                                            7
F.  The Cashewnut Subsector                                       8
G. Agricultural Enterprises                                      11
H. Sectoral Strategy, IDA's Involvement, and Rationale for
Additional Involvement in the Sector                        12
II.  The Proiect                                                       14
A. Project Objectives and Main Features                          14
B.  Detailed Project Features                                    15
1.  Cashew Rehabilitation and Development Component          15
2. Assistance to State and Commercial Agricultural
Enterprises                                              19
3.  Studies and Surveys                                      20
III. Proiect Implementation                                            22
A. Organization and Management                                   22
B. Programming of Activities                                     26
C. Project Implementation Review                                 27
D.  Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation                         27
IV.  Cost Estimates, Financing and Procurement                         29
A.  Cost Estimates                                               29
B.  Financing                                                    30
C. Procurement                                                   31
D.  Disbursements                                                34
E.  Accounts and Audits                                          35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pefformance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V.   Benefits, Risks, Sustainability and Environmental Effect          37
A.  Benefits                                                      37
B.  Risks                                                         39
C.  Sustainability                                                39
D.  EnvironmentaL Effects                                         40
E.  Focus on Women                                                40
VI.  Agreements to be Reached and Recommendation                       41
ANNEXES
Annex 1      Organization Chart                                   47
Annex 2      Cost Tables and Statistical Data                     53
Annex 3      Description of the Cashew Subsector                  61
Annex 4      The Financial Sector                                 73
Annex 5      Implementation Arrangements for Line of Credit       85
Annex 6      Terms of Reference for Agricultural Enterprise
Restructuring Unit                                  87
Annex 7      Terms of Reference for Studies, Surveys
and Consultants                                     89
Annex 8      Implementation Schedule                             105
Annex 9      Supervision Plan                                    109
Annex 10     Documents Available in Project File                 113
MAP IBRD No. 21984
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission which
visited Mozambique in SeptemLer 1989. The mission consisted of G. Keynan
(Leader), R. Ranasinghe (IDA), and J. Intrator and T. McCarthy
(Consultants).



- i -
MOZAMBIQUE
AGRICULTURAL RETABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower              People's Republic of Mozambique
Beneficiaries        Ministry of Agriculture, participating banks, small-scale family and
commercial farmers, traders and truckers, cashewnut processing
enterprises, and agricultural enterprises.
Amount                SDR 11.9 million (USD 15.4 million equivalent)
Terms                 Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms       From the IDA funds of USD 15.4 million equivalent,  the Bank of
Mozambique (BM), acting as executing agent, would make available
approximately USD 3.5 million to the participating financial
institutions (PFIs), for onlenc'-ng on the basis of actual loan approvals
and agreed eligibility criteria.   The PFIs would onlend the credit
proceeds in local currency to beneficiaries at adjustable interest rates
based on the structure of rates prevailing in Mozambique. The onlending
credit risk would be borne by the PFIs who would receive a spread as
determined within the banking system. The foreign exchange risk would
be borne by the Ministry of Finance on behalf of the Government, and
would be covered by the interest yield on funds onlent, net of the
service charge on the IDA credit, the administration costs, and the
spreads of the PFIs on onlending. Subloans under the Credit would have
a maturity of 3 to 12 years with 2 to 4 years grace. ine onlending
terms and conditions will be reviewed annually.
Proiect Description  Project components would include:  (a) rehabilitation and development
of the cashew subsector; (b) building up the institutional capacity for
assisting in the rehabilitation and restructuring of agricultural
enterprises; and (c) carrying out subsectoral studies and surveys.
Under the first component, financing would be provided for:   (a)
equipment, incremental costs and technical assistance to agricultural
extension, research and cashewnut nurseries; (b) investment credit
(equipment and materials) to commercial farmers and traders and for the
rehabilitation of three cashew processing factories; (c) technical
assistance, equipment and incremental costs to the State Secretariat
for Cashew and the State Enterprise for Cashewnut; and (d) carrying out
evaluative surveys. Under the second component, financing for technical
assistance, incremental costs and equipment would be provided in order
to develop capacity within MOA to address the rehabilitation needs of
state and private agricultural enterprises; and particularly the
provision of managerial and planning assistance and training. Under
the third component, complementary studie and surveys -- an Irrigation
Development Master Plan, a Cashew Tree Population Survey and a Cashew
Development Master Plan including new areas -- would be financed.
Benefits and Risks   The project would directly benefit cashewaut producers in terms of
increased production of intercalated food crops and cashewnuts and
improve Mozambique's balance of payment through increased cashevnut



- ii -
exports and reduced imports of food. Institutional strengthening would
enhance agricultural services to farmers. Restructuring of agricultural
enterprises would make them more efficient and profitable. Moreover,
integrated pest management and farm management practices to be
introduced would help safeguard the environment. Lastly, a study to
be carried out early in project life would determine measures to be
taken to enhance project benefits for women. Main project risks include
the  unpredictable   security   situation,   borrower   inexperience,
organizational difficulties, and inadequate and untimely funding of
project activities. To minimize these risks: (a) the project would
be restricted to relatively secure areas; (b) multi-disciplinary
technical assistance to train and help local staff carry out the
rehabilitation process would be provided; and (c) assurances were
obtained that GOM budgetary provisions, which are consistent with the
Public Expenditure Review recommendations, would be made on time and
would cover planned project costs.
Total Proiect Costs
Lical         Foreig.n        Total
(USD million)
A.  Cashew Subsector Rehabilitation                  3.1             7.5          10.6
B.  Agricultural Enterprise Restructuring            0.4             2.5           2.9
C.  Studies and Surveys                              0.2            .0.8           1.0
Total Baseline Costs                             3.7            10.8          14.5
Physical Contingencies                           0.1             0.4           0.5
Price Contingencies                              1.3             1.5           2.8
Total Project Costs                              5.1            12.7          17.8
Financing Plan
Source of Finance                                Local        Forei%n           Total
(USD million)
1.  IDA                                              2.7            12.7           15.4
2.  Government                                       1.2             -              1.2
3.  Participating Banks                              0.7                            0.7
4.  Credit Beneficiaries                             0.5             -              0.5
Total:                                       5.1           12.7            17.8
Estimated IDA Disbursement Schedule
IDA FY             1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998
(USD million)
Annual              2.9    3.4    2.4    2.4    1.7    1.2    0.8    0.6
Cumulative          2.9    6.3    8.7   11.1  12.8   14.0   14.8   15.4
Percentage of
Total Credit       19     41      56     72     8n     91      96    100



MOZAMBIQUE
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. Background
A. Proiect Genesis
1.01      In 1986, the Government of Mozambique (GOM), assisted by IDA,
carried out four agricultural studies addressing the cashew, irrigation,
cotton, and forestry subsectors.   Based on the recommendations of these
studies the Bank agreed to provide assistance to the cashew and irrigation
subsectors, and for the development of agricultural institutions and
manpower.  Two Task Forces were established:  one dealing with the cashew
subsector which was set up in the State Secretariat for Cashew (SEC), the
other dealing with agricultural institutions and manpower which was set up
in the Directorate for Agricultural Economics (DEA) or the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA). Taking into consideration the subsector studies, the Task
Forces began preparation of the two project components in mid-1988 and final
proposals  were  submitted  in April  1989.    The  State  Secretariat  for
Agricultural Hydraulics (SEHA) did not set up a task force to prepare the
irrigation component.   It contracted a consulting firm for this purpose.
However, preparation has not yet reached the stage which would have permitted
appraisal and inclusion of an irrigation component in this project.   The
proposed project is based on the reports of the Task Forces and consultants,
and on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission which visited Mozambique in
September 1989. During this mission and the post-appraisal mission which
took place in January 1990, the Government affirmed its commitment to
continue implementing the policy reforms (para 1.07) required to ensure a
successful project outcome. The proposed project represents the first phase
of a long-term program to rehabilitate and develop one of the major cash
crops of the country's agricultural sector, namely the cashew subsector. It
contains a rehabilitation approach which is based on supporting the small-
scale family producer through mobilization and provision of agricultural
services;    institution   strengthening;    rehabilitation   of   existing
infrastructure and agricultural enterprises; staff training; and development
of a local capacity to sustain project benefits.
B. Main Country Characteristics
1.02      Mozambique is situated on the eastern coast of southern Africa,
betwees the Indian Ocean and the central land mass of Southern and Central
Africa.   It has a total land area of 786,380 sq. km, with an additional
13,000 sq. km of inland waters which include Lake Cabora Bassa and part of
Lake Malawi. The country is bordered by Tanzania to the north, Malawi and
Zambia to the northwest, Zimbabwe and South Africa to the west, and Swaziland
to the southwest. Its predominant physiographic feature is a steady rise in
elevation from the coastal belt in the east to the mountainous areas in the
west. Three main altitude zones up to 1,000 m can be distinguished, which



together cover about 962 of the country. A fourth altitude zor.e above
1,000 m is found in a few small, widely dispersed locations.
1.03      The  country's  resource  base  is  favorable  for  agricultural
production.   Land is plentiful  relative to the population,  soils are
reasonably fertile, and rainfall usually is adequate. However, the South is
characterized by a tropical dry climate with a low annual rainfall (400-800
mm) concentrated in a short rainy season, relatively light soils, and average
temperatures of 23-26 C. Under the current security situation, large parts
of the country are either inaccessible or accessible only by air. About one-
third of the rural population is displaced or otherwise affected by war and
must depend on food aid and provisions from the Emergency Program. New and
existing structures frequently are destroyed and, in many cases, the
provision of agricultural services such as extension, marketing, and credit
is hampered by ongoing hostilities.
C. Economic Context
1.04      Economic Performance.   Despite the country'n well-endowed and
diversified resource base, Mozambique's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per
capita has fallen fairly consistently since Independence and until 1987. In
1988, GDP per capita was estimated at around USD 100-120, making Mozambique
one of the poorest countries in the world. Between 1980 and 1986, overall
production fell by about 301 and exports were reduced by nearly 752.  In
1985, imports were down more than one-third their level of 1980, although
they recovered somewhat in 1986.   External imbalances, aggravated by an
increasingly overvalued exchange rate, led to the rapid accumulation of
arrears on external debt service.   Internally, large fiscal deficits and
unconstrained bank financing of public enterprise losses resulted in a
tripling of the money stock despite  shrinking output.   Administrative
measures were taken to control prices and the allocation of resources.
Although intended to promote efficiency and social welfare, these measures
introduced rigidities and disincentives which worked against allocative
efficiency. As shortages increased, barter, inflation, and parallel markets
for goods and foreign exchange became widespread.
1.05      The difficulties evident in the Mozambican economy have had a major
impact  on  the performance  of the  agricultural  sector.   Many  of the
difficulties result from external factors such as droughts and floods, and
the security situation which is disruptive to the rural economy and which has
caused widespread displacement of the population. In addition, Mozambique
lacks basic physical, economic and social infrastructure, has one of the
lowest literacy rates in the world, and faces an acute shortage of skilled
managerial and technical manpower. All of these factors make it difficult
for the Government to carry out even the most basic policy analysis and
planning activities. The poor performance of the agriLultural sector also
may be explained by the rigid pricing policies and focus of government
expenditure on large, capital-intensive investments. Little attention has
been given to the development of institutions and infrastructure for
delivering essential agricultural services to family farmers and commercial
producers. Basic marketing activities are restricted by the poor state of



roads, scarcity of vehicles, spares, and fuel, inadequate vehicle repair and
maintenance facllities, and attacks on vehicles by bandits.
1.06      The Economic Rehabilitation Proaram.  To arrest the deterioration
in the economy, the Government of Mozambique instituted a comprehensive
Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP) in January 1987. Under this program
economic reforms are being introduced to improve the exchange rate, foreign
exchange allocation system, trade policies, pricing policy, the budget, and
the financial sector.
1.07      In addition to macroeconomic policy changes, the rehabilitation
program also addresses policy and institutional reform within key economic
sectors. In agriculture, attention has been focused on pricing and marketing
policies in order to restore incentives for agricultural production and
distribution.  Since 1987, prices have been increased on all agricultural
commodities, including food crops. The prices of certain products such as
wheat, eggs, and tea have been shifted from the fixed to the conditional
category, while the controls on prices for other products such as shellfish,
potatoes, lamb, and chicken have been removed entirely.   The Government
accepted the principle of border pricing and as a result, prices increased
in real  terms.    During the 1988189 marketing season,  the Government
established a minimum pricing system to protect family producers of cashew,
cotton, copra, and oilseeds from the monopsony power of local processors.
Under this system State enterprises compete in the market alongside other
traders but also act as buyers of last resort, guaranteeing to buy up the
crop at a minimum price.
1.08      Overall, under the ERP, considerable progress has been made to
restore the domestic price incentive, with all the domestic food crops being
priced at nearer 80Z of the international price in 1989. Analysis of the
official price data also suggests that over the 1986-89 period the
agricultural terms of trade improved for export crop producers (cashew,
cotton, and copra). While the strategy of the ERP seeks in general terms to
enhance production incentives, there is no explicit intention to favor export
production. It is nonetheless the case that, compared to the immediate pre-
ERP period. incentives for export production, including cashewnut, have
received a relative boost  (Annex 2,  Table 3).   As a result of the
macroeconomic policy changes, GDP per capita increased on average 4.8 percent
a year between 1987 and 1988.   At the sectoral level, agriculture has
responded positively -- increasing, on average, by 6.4 percent a year over
the same period.
D. The Agricultural Sector
1.09      General.    Agriculture  is the most  important  sector  in  the
Mozambican economy, accounting for about 40-502 of GDP, employing over 802
of the labor force, and generating around 80X of the country's export
earnings. The soil is reasonably fertile and supports a variety of crops
including maize, rice, sorghum, beans, cassava, groundnuts, sunflower,
sesame, fruit and vegetables for internrl consumption, and copra, cashewauts,
cotton, tea, sisal and citrus for export.  Rainfall usually is adequate,
although there is a risk of drought in the E£uth.  About 802 of households



- 4 -
in Hozambique consist of small farmers who, given peaceful living coaditions
and a supportive policy and institutional environment, in mos years could
produce enough food for their own requirements plus a small surplus. Surface
water resources provide the possibility of irrigation, so far largely
unexploited, and some two million ha offer suitable irrigation potential.
Irrigation infrastructure is in place over an area of 90,000 ha of land which
encompassess (a) the irrigation scheme in Chokwe (25,000 ha); (b) six sugar-
cane estates (27,000 ha); and (c) other medium- to small-scale irrigation
schemes (38,000 ha).
1.10      Structure of Aaricultural Production.  Agricultural production in
Hozambique is carried out by four distinct types of farms:   smallholder
family farms, state farms, private commercial farms, and cooperative farms.
A fifth group -- mixed farms -- now is emerging and consists of commercial
farms set up as joint ventures between the Government and private
enterprises. The family subsector is responsible for cultivating about 2.8
million hectares a year, compared to less than 200,000 hectares for all of
the other four producer categories combined. The family subsector consists
of about 2.5 million families and is the main supplier of marketed food
crops.   State farms include some 72 enterprises engaged in agricultural and
livestock production over an area of about 67,000 hectares.  Managerial
inefficiency and inappropriate production technologies have resulted in
extremely high unit costs of production on most of these state farms.
Private commercial farms include about 45 agricultural enterprises and 40
livestock enterprises with an overall cultivated area of about 50,000 Ila.
Efforts have been made to promote cooperatives, in 1986 there were some 320
cooperatives  cultivating  less  than  50,000  hectares.    Host  of  these
cooperatives are located in the southern part of the country.
1.11      Sector  Performance.       Despite  significant  potential,   the
agricultural sector, until 1987, has not performed well. Only 2.8 million
hectares of the country's 31 million hectares of cultivable land is under
shifting cultivation.   The irrigation infrastructure in place across the
country cannot be used because of maintenance and security problems. The
output of small farmers is severely curtailed by ongoing hostilities in the
country and the absence of supportive institutional policies and services.
Although the performance of the agricultural sector is difficult to measure
due to the absence of data on small farmers' production yields, available
data show a major decline in the marketed quantities of most commodities
beginning in 1983. Maize and rice were the most important marketed food
crops until 1984, when the removal of price controls from fruit and
vegetables led to three- and four-fold increases in their respective marketed
quantities. Maize sales fell by more than 702 during 1985 and 1986. Between
1983 and 1987, rice sales remained at about 65Z of their 1981 level, and then
recovered fully.   The production of three major export crops -- copra,
cashewnuts, and sisal -- fell sharply in 1982, and cotton and tea followed
in 1983. Cashewnut production fell again in 1983, as did the production of
most other crops --partly due to severe drought. Cashewnut production has
recovered somewhat since that time, largely as a result of new pricing
policies and the provision of consumer goods to producers.   By 1987,
cashewnut and copra production had recovered to almost 50X of their 1981
levels. However, the marketed production of tea collapsed in 1986 and 1987
to less than 2X of its 1981 volume, and the production of cotton recovered
only slightly, reaching 15g of its 1981 level. Sisal in 1987 was less than



22 of its 1981 level. Although crops, fisheries, and forestr; are the main
contributors to Mozambique's exports, the most itrortant axport commodity
during the last few years t.is been shrimp. Its share increased froim 33X of
total export value in 1983 :o nearly 552 in 1987.
3 'Z      Agricultural  Development  Strategy.        In  the  past,  public
exS iditures on agriculture have focused on large scale, capital-intensive
investment projects in the state sector rather than on the provision of
essential agricultural infrastructure and services.   The productivity of
these investments has been low, due to inappropriate and costly cechnologies,
inadequate managerial and technical capacity, and shortages of critical
inputs. Estimates of total agricultural production show that, compared to
state and commercial producers, the family subsector has an overwhelming
weight in production and generally much lower unit costs of production.
1.13      The Government intends to focus on increasing the production and
yields of the family sector, in accordance with the directives of its Fourth
Congress.  Promoting the family sector makes sense not only on efficiency
grounds but also on equity grounds, As most of the population derives its
livelihood from small family farms, increasing the productivity of these
farms should improve agricultural production overall. Furthermore, over 602
of those working in the smallholder sector are women; supporting the
development of smallholder agricultural production therefore will directly
benefit rural women. This new focus will require that public expenditures
be redirected toward the provision of basic agriLultural services such as
research, extension, education and training, and to support basic marketing
infrastructure and equipment such as rural roads, storagi shelters, and
vehicles.
1.14      Presently, the Government's objectives for the agricultural sector
are to: (a) increase domestic food production and reduce dependence on food
aid; (b) improve food security and incomes in rural and urban areas; (c)
restore volumes of agricultural exports and world market shares to their
early 1980 levels; (d) increase the supply of raw materials to local
processing industries; and (e) stem the environmental degradation caused by
overconcentration of displaced individuals in safe areas.   In a&dition,
reforms under the ERP aim to increase the efficiency and profitability of
agricultural enterprises; those enterprises that continue to have large
deficits will be restructured or closed and their assets turned over to more
efficient producers.
1.15      Agricultural Manaaement.  The Ministry of Agriculture has primary
responsibility for managing the agricultural sector. The Ministry has been
reorganized several times since the country's independence, but its current
structure dates back to March 1987. The Ministry is made up of three State
Secretariats, four National Directorates, and 10 Provincial Directorates.
The State Secretariats are responsible for planning and managing of the
hydrology, cashew, and cotton subsectors. The National Directorates define
policies and direct programs in the agriculture, livestock, forestry and
wildlife, and rural development subsectors and coordinate activities with the
various  research  institutes  (see Annex  1,  Chart  1).   The  Provincial
Directorates supervise and coordinate agricultural activities in each of the
provinces.



- 6 -
1.16      The State Secretariat for Agricultural Hydraulics (SERA) oversees
the country's hydraulic resources within the framework of agricultural
development and is responsible for the construction, rehabilitation, and
management of irrigation systems.  It comprises three directorates and is
staffed by about 7 professionals who are assisted by 10 expatriates and 45
other general staff. SEHA's main task is to coordinate irrigated development
projects and manage specific contracts with state organications that
construct or operate and maintain irrigation schemes. A limited number of
SEHA staff supervise activities in the field, in coordination with the
Provincial Directorates of Agriculture.
1.17      SEHA has a number of shortcomings.   First, there is a lack of
coordination between SEHA and other state institutions which deal with water
use and management, and there is no higher level interministerial body to
provide this coordination. Second, mainly due to the lack of staff, SEHA is
unable to formulate or impl^ment long-term policies and only recently has
recognized the unique demands of small-scale irrigation schemes and has set
up a national program to deal with them.   Third, it needs to establish
clearer priorities between investing in new schemes and rehabilita.ing
existing ones, as infrastructure and water resources already in place often
are not used effectively.
1.18      The State Secretariat for Cashew (SEC) was created in 1983 and
placed under the Ministry of Agriculture.  It is responsible for planning
and managing of the cashew subsector. The SEC operates fairly autonomously
and is divided into two Directorates (Economy and Technical) and two
Departments (Human Resources, ane Administration and Finance). Severe
understaffing has prevented the SEC from being able to formulate or implement
effective strategies for rehabilitation and development projects as well as
extension,  research and manpower development programs.   The SEC has a
decentralized structure which includes Provincial and District Offices and
Administrative Posts. Staffing is thin and technically weak at all levels.
There are 26 staff at headquarters, and about 60 staff in Inhambane and Gaza
Provinces who deal primarily with nurseries and extension.
1.19      Calu de Mocambicue  (CM), established in 1979, is headed by a
Director General who is appointed by and reports to the State Secretary for
Cashew (Annex 1, Chart 2). CM is actively involved in nut trading but is
also responsible for: (a) management of the cashew processing industry and
the six state-run processing plants; and (b) the functioning of the cashew
procurement and marketing system, including the importation and distribution
of consumer goods to producing areas. CM, which employs about 5,000 workers,
including 285 in its main office near Maputo, is adequately staffed. The
head  office  is divided  Into four divisions:   Production  Supervision;
Maintenance of Factories; Finance and Accounting; and Administration.
Management, financial, and administrative procedures have been heav'ly
centralized and unnecessarily cumbersome. Recently however, the Government
has decided to decentralize CM's operational and administrative functions,
and to operate factories as autonomous processing units. This trend would
be reinforced under the proposed project (paras 2.16, 2.17, and Annex 7).
1.20      The Directorate for Aaricultural Economics (DEA) is responsible
for carrying out sectoral planning and policy analysis, evaluating
agricultural enterprises, and preparing and appraising development projects



and programs in the agricultural sector.   It contains a Department of
Projects, a Department of Planning and Economic Analysis, a newly formed SAUE
Unit (Sector de Analise de Unidades Empresariais), and a Program for Training
in Economic Management (PROFORGE).  The Directorate receives technical and
financial support from the Mozambique Nordic Agricultural Program (MONAP),
the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), and the Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO).
1.21      The Department of Proiects (DEAIDP) was set up to carry out project
identification, formulation, appraisal, and monitoring and evaluation.
However, it is not equipped to prepare or appraise large-scale investment
projects.    Therefore  its  present  functions  are  limited  to preparing
guidelines for project analysis; helping to formulate technical cooperation
projects and programs; establishing an inventory and monitoring and
evaluation system for national and donor-financed projects; evaluation of
agricultural enterprises; and reviewing agricultural investment projects for
medium-term planning purposes. The rehabilitation of the agricultural sector
envisaged under the ERP will require that DEA develop the capacity to prepare
and appraise projects in order to attract private capital and induce the
private sector to participate in the ERP.
1.22      rhe Department of Planning and Economic Analysis (DEM/DPEA) carries
out general studies and reviews to support sectoral planning and policy
analysis. Over the past four years, the Department has conducted studies of
the performance of the agricultural sector, but most of these studies lack
the depth needed to guide policy making and program formulation.
1.23      The SAUE Unit was created to evaluate agricultural enterprises,
but it lacks the funding and staff needed to assist in restructuring the
subsector.
1.24      The PROFORGE program has been attached to DEA in order to provide
training to agricultural enterprises and MOA staff.
1.25      The Ministry of Agriculture is represented in each province by a
Provincial Directorate of Agriculture (DPA).  The DPAs report both to the
Provincial  Governor  and  the  Minister  and  are  supported  by  district
administrative staff. However, staffing at the district level is very weak,
and although most district offices now have a District Agricultural Ofricer,
few of these appointees have professional training.
E. The Financial Sector
1.26      General.  The present financial system came into being when the
banking system was restructured in 1978.   There are three banks, one of
which, Bank of Mozambique (BM), is legally responsible for carrying out the
dual functions of both a centrel and a commercial bank. BM and the second
bank, the Banco Po3ular de Desenvolvimento (BPD), are 100l state-owned.
However, autonomy oi the banking system is accepted as a guiding principle
by the GOM. The third bank, Banco Standard Totta de Mocambique (BSTM), is
a private bank which is largely foreign-owned. In addition, an Agricultural
Development Credit Fund (CCADR) was established in 1988 (Annex 4).



-8-
1.27      For the  first decade after  independence,  the banking system
operated mostly as a passive conduit of funds to finance production plans for
the  various  sectors  of  the  economy.    However,  in  keeping with  the
Government's new economic policy, considerable changes were introduced in
Mozambique's financial sector, including introduction of competition in
resource allocation within the banking system.
1.28      Structure of Interest Rates.  The current structure of both lending
and deposit rates of interest in Mozambique is shown in Annex 4. Rates in
effect until 1986 were very low in nominal terms, ranging from 0 to 62 for
deposits, and 32 to 102 for lending, and negative in real terms.   The
structure of interest rates was revised with effect from January 1987, with
rates ranging from 32 on demand deposits and 122 to 202 on time deposits, and
54 different lending rates ranging from 122 to 352. A revision of lending
rates came into effect again in January 1989, with the number of rates
reduced to 16, ranging from 142 to 342, and the range contracted from 18Z-
35Z to 22Z-34Z, with r~ -es for most categories increasing by 42 to 62.
Effective September 1, 1989 the interest rate structure was further revised
resulting in an increase of lending rates by an additional 12 to 22 p.a. Due
to these successive increases, interest rates became positive in real terms
in early 1990. It is expected that this interest rate structure will have
a positive impact, with credit demand shifting to borrowers that have better
prospects in the current business environment.
1.29      Credit Allocation Policy and Sectoral Distribution. Mozambique had
xio active formal credit allocation policy until 1987, when a ceiling on
domestic credit expansion was introduced in the context of the SAF agreements
with the IMF. Under the terms of the agreements, additional credit expansion
is allowed to the extent of the countervalue in maticais of certain foreign
exchange resources, such as IDA Credit loans.
1.30      Credit Ceilings.  Due to ceilings on domestic credit expansion the
level of bank finance available to the state declined significantly in real
terms.   This shift partly reflects:   (a) changes in the channelling of
financial resources to state enterprises, in the context of rationalization
of their operations; (b) increasingly tight controls on the Government's
budget; and (c) the desire to make adequate funds available to the economy,
and especially the private sector, in order to stimulate growth. A more
complete discussion on the financial sector is contained in Annex 4.
1.31      Strengthening of Financial Institutions.  Financial institutions
are being strengthened, their balance sheets have been restructured, and an
action plan is being implemented to improve their financial situation. In
addition, the separation of the central and commercial functions of the Bank
of Mozambique will be carried out by 1992.
F. The Cashewnut Subsector
1.32      General.  Cashewnuts are grown along 200 kilometers of the coast
of the Indian Ocean and throughout the length of the country.  Cashewnut
production engages about one-third of the country's land area and more than



- 9 -
one-half of the rural population.   In 1973, Mozambique was the largest
cashewnut producer in the world, generating 216,000 tons of raw nuts from
about 60 million trees. However, in the mid 1980s the country's world share
fell to 30,000 tons, or less than 102 of world production. The decline in
the processed and exported volume of cashewnuts was principally caused by the
lack of security in the countryside. disruptions in transport and marketing,
shortages of food and other basic consumer goods in rural areas, and pricing
policies  which  encouraged  producers  to  use  cashewnuts  for  their  own
consumption or barter for scarce consumer goods instead of selling them to
the factories.  However, the decline also can be attributed to other factors
-- the aging of trees, lack of suitable planting material, poor husbandry and
agricultural services, limited new plantings, lack of weeding, and bushfires.
1.33      Areas and Yields.  Little reliable information is available either
on the cashew tree population or on the impact of existing pests and diseases
on yields. Recent estimates are based on the 1970 census and put the cashew
tree population at thirty to fifty million trees, about 60? of which are
fruit bearing.   Between 15 million and 25 million trees are located in
Nampula Province, 10-13 million are in Inhambane Province and 3-4 million are
in Gaza Province. There are no reliable data on the average yield of cashew
trees.  However, a reasonable estimate is 1.0-1.5 kg/tree/year.  The yields
of mature trees vary considerably,  from less than 1 kg/tree/year to 35
kg/tree/year.   Average annual yields could be brought up to 10 kg/tree
through tne introduction of appropriate agrotechniques such as weeding and
pruning and the use of selected seedlings and grafting.
1.34      Producers.    Small-scale  family  farmers  constitute  the  only
important cashewnut producers in Xozambique.   Their farming system uses
neither credit nor purchased inputs and is based on mixed shifting
cultivation and family labor. Trees are intercropped with groundnuts, maize,
sorghum, cowpeas, cassava, 'mafurral (a local fruit tree), and even coconuts
along the coast of Inhambane Province. Women play a leading role in the
production, collection, and marketing of cashewnuts, as well as in decisions
regarding on-farm consumption of cashewnuts.
1.35      Internal Trade.  During colonial times, raw nuts were collected
from farmers by a network of rural merchants ("cantineiros') who also
supplied rural communities with basic commodities for cash or barter. This
system collapsed with Independence but was partially restored in the early
1980s. It again was threatened in 1985 due to increased insecurity, poor
maintenance of road infrastructure and trucks, and difficulties in obtaining
spare parts.  All private traders are registered through the SEC and are
categorized as provincial or district wholesalers or retailers. Each year
procurement regulations are issued which determine the purchase and selling
prices of nuts, the traders' allowance for transport costs, and the profit
margins of private traders.
1.36      Processing. The first cashewnut processing factory was established
in 1950. By 1974, 14 factories were operating in the country with a total
rated capacity of about 150,000 tons.   Due to its unduly high operating
costs, the cashewnut processing industry is economically marginal in spite
of the relatively low factory-gate price of nuts -- USD 0.36/kg in
Mozambique, compared with USD G.45/kg in Brazil and USD 0.80/kg in India.
Six processing plants are closed, and the remaining eight factories are



- 10 -
underutilized and require rehabilitation. Processing capacity is distributed
unevenly across the country in relation to cashew growing areas. That is,
a higher capacity is found in the southern part of the country, away from the
main producing areas. Although kernel weight is about 20-30Z of raw nuts,
local factories are able to extract only between 18 and 21 in kernel weight.
This is due to uneven grading of raw nuts, technical deficiencies in
processing, and the poor condition of existing equipment.
1.37      Pricing.  Producer and factory-gate prices for cashewnuts are fixed
annually by the National Commission for Salaries and Prices (CNSP). These
prices are classified into two categories (Type I and Type II) according to
degree of impurity and defect'veness. Factories are expected to cover their
costs and make a profit from the margin between the fixed procurement price
and the fluctuating world market price. Until recently, prices rarely were
adjusted and were allowed to remain far out of line with production costs.
However, since 1987 domestic price incentives are being restored as a result
of the Economic Rehabilitation Program. Fixed prices have been adjusted to
reflect the change in the exchange rates and have increased in real terms.
Nevertheless, farmgate prices for cashewnuts are still relatively low,
compared to their international prices (Annex 3, para 3.01).   Therefore,
mechanisms to improve production incentives still need to be designed and set
up (para 2.15).
1.38      International Trade.  During the colonial era, foreign trade was
handled by private trading companies. These companies left the country after
Independence and a State Enterprise for Agricultural Exports (ENACOMO) was
established  to fill the  gap.   It remained the  exclusive exporter of
cashewnuts until 1984. Since about that time, Monapo, Inducaju, and Caju de
Mocambique have been authorized to export kernels after approval by the
Ministry of Commerce. Monapo and Inducaju are private cashewnut processing
enterprises. Caju de Mocambique (CM) is a parastatal which handles cashewnut
processing and marketing. Also since 1984, cashew export enterprises have
been allowed to retain a portion (30-40Z) of their foreign exchange earnings
under the Foreign Exchange Retention Scheme (FERS). Export enterprises have
used the FERS to import needed equipment, spare parts, fuel, and consumer
goods to be bartered against cashewnuts.
1.39      Extension, Research and Credit.  The SEC maintains a small core
of extension agents in the provinces.   These agents have an elementary
education, are not trained or supervised, and have limited mobility in the
areas where they live and work. Cashew research is virtually nonexistent.
Funds have been allocated under an ongoing project in northern Mozambique
financed by the African Development Bank  (AfDB)  to develop an applied
research program covering clonal propagation and low input cultivation
techniques. However, due to delays in project implementation, these funds
have not yet been used. Credit in Mozambique is provided by three banks:
the commercial sector of Banco de Mocambique (BM), Banco Popular de
Desenvolvimento (BPD), and Banco Standard Totta de Mocambique (ESTM).  There
also is an Agricultural Credit and Rural Development Fund (CCADR)
administered by BPD (para 1.26). CCADR, according to its regulations, lends
primarily to veterans, repatriated migrant workers, cooperatives, and small-
scale family producers. None of these farmer groups are targeted to benefit
from the credit subcomponent of the proposed project. Short-term credit to
the cashew subsector is provided by Banco de Mocambique.



- 11 -
1.40      Maior Development Constraints and Prospects.  The development of
the cashewnut subsector is constrained by the security situation; macro-
economic policies; institutional weaknesses; pricing, marketing and trade
policies; and agrotechnical difficulties. The continuing insecurity in rural
areas prevents private entrepreneurs and state enterprises from investing in
the subsector. The resource allocation for the development of the subsector
and its related services (extension, research, and marketing) is insufficient
to reverse the decline in raw nut production and marketing. The scarcity of
skilled manpower and management incentives, as well as the lack of financial
resources of the processing industry and the insufficient amounts of
investment credit in local financial markets, restrict the production and
marketing of higher quality nuts.   Long-term investment credit cannot be
provided through local resource mobilization. This situation does not enable
the GOM to implement its financial sector strategy, namely to increase
provision of investment credit to commercial farmers and traders.   The
scarcity of foreign exchange also limits the involvement of commercial
farmers and traders in cashewnut production and marketing. Institutions are
not equipped to carry out their functions or to participate effectively in
the rehabilitation of the subsector. Pricing policies, internal and external
marketing problems, and agrotechnical difficulties further hamper development
of the subsector. A well-defined development plan could formulate 'olutions
to many of these constraints. Such a plan would use the cashew subsector as
the main avenue for assisting the small-scale family subsector which is
heavily involved in cashewnut production (para 1.34) and would help implement
the GOM's objectives to increase incomes in rural areas, restore volumes of
agricultural exports to their early 1980 levels, and increase the supply of
raw materials to local processing industries (para 1.14). This plan would
include the gradual renovation of existing orchards with selected seeds and
clonal propagation, applied research on clonal investigation and cashew
cultural practices for multi-cropping farming systems, upgrading of
agricultural services at all levels, provision of investment credit to
commercial farmers and traders, rehabilitation of 'he processing industry,
and institutional strengthening of the SEC and CM. Additional details on the
cashew subsector are provided in Annex 3.
G. Agricultural Enterprises
1.41      MOA is charged with providing guidance, planning, and economic
services to the 72 state farms under its tutelage, 85 commercial farms
engaged in agricultural and livestock production, and about 60 small- and
medium-scale agricultural processing plants. Thtse plants include: state
operated rice mills, meat processing plants, dairy industries, animal feed
plants, tea factories, state and privately owned sugar estates, cotton mills,
cashew factories, and forest industries. The installed capacity of most of
these agricultural processing facilities is underutilized due to declines in
the supply of raw materials to them. As a result of insufficient inputs,
many of the facilities have had to be closed. Most of the state farms and
agricultural enterprises were surveyed by DEA and found to lack effective
managerial support, to employ obsolete record keeping procedures, and not to
engage in adequate long-term planning. There also is no long-term strategy
for restructuring the agricultural enterprise subsector.



- 12 -
1.42      Few managers of public and private agricultural enterprises have
received   formal   training   in   agricultural   economics   or  business
administration, nor do they have the experience needed to run enterprises.
State enterprise managers have been frustrated by the obsolete production
systems and fixed prices, and the routine coverage of enterprise losses has
further reduced the spirit of entrepreneurship. The country still lacks the
pool of qualified national planners needed to implement the restructuring of
the agricultural sector. Agricultural state enterprises also suffer from an
excess number of underqualified administrative staff, and a shortage of
capable mid-level accountants.   Most of t11e country's skilled manpower
resources for economic planning and management are employed is managing the
centralized system of production planning and input allocation rather than
in building managerial skills and administrative capacity.
H. Sectoral Strategy. IDA's Involvement, and Rationale for Additional
Involvement in the Sector
1.43      Based on the various  studies and surveys,  the Government is
concentrating its limited resources on increasing the productivity of the
small-scale family producer through the rehabilitation of key subsectors
(such as cashew, irrigation, and cotton) and the implementation of simple
cost-effective measures where returns are likely to be immediate. The GOM
has made a specific decision to rehabilitate the cashew subsector as it has
been, and is expected to continue to be, an important foreign exchange
earner. In addition, because production and marketing are almost exclusively
carried out by the family subsector, the GOM decided to use the cashew
subsector as the main avenue for assisting family producers and implementing
a part of its financial sector strategy (para 1.40). The GOM also intends
to define a Master Plan for developing new cashew areas so that cashew once
again may make a large contribution to export earnings.   To assist in
institutional development and management, key units in the State Secretariat
for Cashew (SEC) and the State Enterprise for Cashewnut (CM) are to be
strengthened. In addition, the cashew processing capacity is to be gradually
Lehabilitated. Agricultural enterprises are to be made more efficient and
profitable through individual restructuring and rehabilitation, the
introduction of appropriate management and accounting systems, and training
of personnel.   Investments in large-scale, capital intensive irrigation
schemes will be evaluated carefully, and compared to rainfed alternatives.
A Master Plan will be carried out to assess alternative options for medium-
term development of irrigation.
1.44      IDA has provided twelve credits for Mozambique since it first began
lending to the country in 1985. The first IDA Rehabilitation Credit, for SDR
45.5 million, was used to improve the capacity of the Ministry of Trade to
procure inputs for the industrial, transport, and agricultural sectors.
Participating enterprises benefitted from improved access to spare parts, raw
materials, and managerial technical assistance. The second IDA credit, for
SDR 15.6 million, was approved in May 1987 to support an Energy
Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance Project. In August 1987, a Second
Rehabilitation Credit for SDR 54.5 million was approved to support the
Economic Recovery Program. It was financed through an IDA Credit, an Africa
Facility Credit, and a Swiss Special Joint Financing Grant. In 1988, two
additional credits were approved -- a First Education Credit for SDR 11.7
million and an Urban Rehabilitation Credit for SDR 44 million. In 1989, a



- 13 -
Health and Nutrition Credit for SDR 21.0 million, a Small and Medium
Enterprise Development Project Credit for SDR 25.1, million, a Credit for an
Industrial Enterprise Restructuring Project for SDR 40.0 million, an Economic
and Finan al Management and Technical Assistance Project for SDR 16.5
million, th¢ Beira Transport Rehabilitation Project for SDR 31.0 million, the
Urban Household Energy Project for SDR 17.1 million, and the Third
Rehabilitation Credit for SDR 68.2 million were approved.
1.45      In addition to the above credits, the GOM has carried out IDA-
financed studies of the cashewnut, cotton, irrigation, and forestry
subsectors and IDA has carried out an Agricultural Sector Survey and a Food
Security Study to guide its short- and medium-term involvement in the sector.
The subsector studies, which provide specific technical and economic
recommendations for removing constraints and fostering development in each
subsector, together with the IDA survey and study have been used to help
define the Governmert's strategy in the agricultural sector.
1.46      Many countries and international institutions such as the UNDP,
FAO, IFAD, AfDB, USAID, and the EEC have signed mutual cooperation and
development assistance agreements with the GOM, which also receives
assistance from numerous NGOs.  Socialist countries were, until recently,
involved in relatively large agricultural development projects which are
still in different stages of preparation and implementation and which were
initially planned to include the establishment of agroindustrial complexes,
dams, communal villages and housing. Assistance from non-socialist countries
takes various forms ranging from relief for refugees and import financing to
technical assistance.   Among the various programs, the Mozambique Nordic
Agricultural Program, financed by the Nordic countries, has until recently
been of major importance to the agricultural sector. IFAD, the AfDB, EEC,
and USAID are involved in the rehabilitation of the agricultural and
fisheries   sectors,   and  are  financing  various  projects   including
rehabilitation of highways and assistance to cashewnut, citrus, cotton,
foodcrop, and forestry production. However, the assistance of above entities
is not well coordinated and lacks long-term orientation.   Furthermore,
adverse security conditions in the country substantially reduce the planned
impact of the assistance programs. The Government recognizes the need for
a more efficient approach to agricultural development, a closer coordination
of activities at the field level, and a better focusing of donor assistance.
Therefore, using the recommendations of the Agricultural Sector Survey and
the subsector studies, the GOM and IDA prepared the proposed project to
strengthen the impact of policy measures introduced under the ERP and PFP,
to better focus assistance to the family subsector through coordination and
streamlining of agricultural services such as extension, research, and
marketing, and to increase agricultural production and rural incomes.
1.47      In the context of the ERP, PFP, and agricultural sector work, IDA
has assisted the GOM in reforming agricultural and financial policies, and
in formulating strategies to stimulate the economy. The proposed project is
consistent with these strategies.   IDA involvement would ensure that the
policy environment needed to help sustain the ongoing economic upturn is
continued, that donor assistance to the agricultural sector is better
coordinated and focussed, and that direct investment support is provided to
subsectors providing key foreign exchange earnings such as the cashew
subsector.



- 14 -
II. The Proiect
A. Proiect Obiectives and Main Features
2.01      The main objectives of the project are to support the Government's
efforts to assist the family subsector to reverse the decline in cashewnut
production and exportation through selective rehabilitation of physical
infrastructure and services, the provision of technical assistance, and the
implementation of policy reforms in pricing and marketing. The project also
will contribute to the GOM's stated policy of restructuring state and
commercial agricultural enterprises, and support basic studies and surveys
which will strengthen and guide development of the agricultural sector once
the security situation is improved. The project d sign takes into account
the recommendations of the Agricultural Sector Survey and the cashew
subsector study carried out with IDA assistance. The project is consistent
with activities to be financed under IDA's Second and Third Rehabilitation
Credits, the Small and Medium Enterprise Development Project. the Industrial
Enterprise Restructuring Project, the Cashew Rehabilitation Project in
northern Mozambique (AfDB/AfDF), the Second Agricultural Development Project
(IFAD), and ongoing and planned development activities by other agencies.
Finally, the project is designed in a simple but effective fashion to ensure
simplicity in implementation, the provision of training to local personnel,
and ease of replication.
2.02      Project interventions include: (a) rehabilitation and development
of the cashew subsector; (b) assistance to _tate and commercial agricultural
enterprises;  and  (c)  specific  studies  and surveys.    Cashew  subsector
rehabilitation and development will cover the provision of agricultural
services such as extension, applied research, production of new stock, and
marketing; investment credit for covmmercial production, marketing, and the
rehabilitation of three cashewnut processing factories; institutional
development; and evaluative surveys.  Assistance to state and commercial
agricultural enterprises (para 1.41) will complement ongoing institution-
building activities supported by donors. This assistance will take the form
of advisory services provided to small- and medium-size state and commercial
enterprises  in  the  areas  of:    developing  restructuring  policies  and
strategies; management, administration, and production planning; conducting
specific studies and surveys; and personnel truining.   The project will
finance the provision of technical assistance, incremental salaries, vehicles
and equipment. The Studies and Surveys component is intended to strengthen
agricultural sector management capacities, policy making, and the formulation
of medium- and lorg-term development strategies. This component will provide
financing for an Irrigation Development Master Plan, a Cashew Tree Population
Survey, a Cashew Development Master Plan covering existing and new areas, and
other minor surveys.
2.03      The project is estimated to cost USD 17.8 million, approximately
75? for cashew subsector rehabilitation, 19? for assistance to agricultural



- 15 -
enterprises, and 6X for studies and surveys.   The project implementation
period will be about eight years.
B. Detailed Proiect Features
1. Cashew Rehabilitation and Development Component
2.04      General. This component has national and area-specific dimensions.
It covers about 400,000 hectares of relatively secure areas in the Inhambane
Province (Massinga, Morrumbene, Homoine, Maxixe, Jangamo, Inharrime, and
Zavala districts) and Gaza Province (Manjacaze, Chibuto, Xai-Xai, and Bilene
districts). About half of the area is cultivated and encompasses 3.0-3.5
million widely dispersed cashew trees, or about 10? of the total cashew area
in the country. The trees are cultivated by about 100,000 families on small
plots, and are located in areas accessible from Maputo (IBRD Map 21984).
Specifically, support will be given to: (a) strengthen agricultural services
such as extension, applied research, and nurseries; (b) provide investment
credit  for  rehabilitating  and  establishing  new  plantations,   and
rehabilitating and improving marketing infrastructure and processing
factories; (c) strengthen the State Secretariat for Cashew and the State
Enterprise  of Cashewnut; and  (d) carry out evaluative  surveys.   This
component is estimated to cost USD 13.4 million, or 75X of the total project
cost.
Strengthenina of Agricultural Services
2.05      Agricultural  services  will  be  strengthened  by   improving
agricultural extension, implementing a National Cashew Research Program, and
increasing the stock of small-scale family and commercial plantations through
the establishment of cashew nurseries.
2.06      Extension work under the project will follow the 'Training and
Visit" method which is being applied successfully in a numb_r of areas in
Mozambique and will be integrated with the extension activities financed by
other donors. The project has developed an integrated technical package to
address the multiple set of production problems and objectives of small scale
farmers.   The package includes recommendations on:   clearing bush and
thinning of cashew to a suitable density; planting of annual crops with
mature cashew trees to meet food production objectives and ease the problem
of competition for labor between food and cash crops; and use of fertilizer
on annual crops by more advanced farmers. Extension services at the Ministry
of Agriculture will be strengthened by increasing the number of Field
Extension Workers, setting up a Farmer Organization Team at the Ministry's
district offices, and developing staff training capabilities for SEC offices.
2.07      The number of Field Extension Workers (FEWs) in the Gaza-Inhambane
area will reach some 200. When the program is fully developed each area FEW
will provide service to between 500 and 600 families. Training 'n extension
will be jointly developed with MOA extension  services.   A short-term
consultant will be hired to plan and initiate the extension training program.



- 16 -
FEWs will be provided with basic training, transportation, and technical and
administrative supervision.
2.08      Farmer Organization Teams (FOTs) will be established in priority
districts to provide farmer organizations with organizational and development
assistance. A short-term consultant will be hired to help set up the FOTs
and to plan and initiate their activities.   The POTs will maintain close
liaison with the extension system and SEC representatives in the field to
ensure farmer awareness of government services, policies, and development
opportunities.
2.09      The project will finance, under this subcomponent, staff training
and demonstration materials, incremental salaries, vehicles, bicycles,
motorcycles, office supplies and equipment. The costs of this subcomponent
are estimated to be USD 3.6 million, or 272 of the total component costs.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that extension services under
the project will be integrated with ongoing extension activities financed by
other donors in the provinces of Gaza and Inhambane (para 6.01 (a)).
2.10      The National Cashew Research Program will be implemented by the
National Agricultural Research Institute (INIA). This program, which will
complement efforts carried out under the project funded by the African
Development Fund, will focus on the: (a) identification of major cashewnut
diseases and pests and their economic control; (b) search and screening for
trees tolerant to existing diseases; (c) development of methods of vegetative
multiplication of resistant and high yielding varieties; (d) formulation of
improved cultivation practices in the family subsector; and (e) development
of sound integrated pest management  (IPM) practices.   The project will
finance rehabilitation of physical infrastructure in two research sub-
stations, provision of equipment and materials, and training abroad of four
mid-level technicians in IPM practices (para 5.09) and adaptive research, and
local training in agricultural research for eleven entry-level technicians.
2.11      While the National Cashew Research Program is being prepared,
support will be given to the country's clonal orchards at the Ricatla
Research Station in Maputo which will receive vehicles, equipment and
materials. The costs of this subcomponent, including training of personnel
and provision of vehicles and equipment to the Ricatla Research Station, are
estimated to be about USD 0.2 million, or less than 2? of total component
costs. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that a National Cashew
Research Program is formulated by SEC by the end of the first project year,
and that the proposed research program is initiated by the second project
year (para 6.01(b)).
2.12      Cashew nurseries will be set up in order to enable small-scale
farmers to replant or clone graft new stock and commercial farmers to set up
small-scale plantations. The target for the family subsector is to establish
14,000 ha of new stock by the eighth project year. Commercial plantations
are expected to be set up on 1,600 ha, at the rate of 300 ha per year for the
first four years of the project, thereafter tapering off to about 100 ha per
year. Project nurseries will be set up at the rate of one per year, for the
first three years of the project.   Two nurseries will be  located in



- 17 -
Inhambane, of which one will be in the Nhacoongo Experimental Field. The
third nursery will be located in Gaza.   These nurseries are needed to
reestablish cashew planting through clonal grafting instead of replanting,
as grafting will facilitate the introduction of more appropriate varieties
and speed up the onset of additional cashew production. Nursery staff also
will assist selected farmers in grafting existing trees and new seedlings.
The project will finance incremental staff salarioes, technical assistance in
nursery management  and operation,  the  rehab-litation  of  existing  SEC
buildings at the three nursery sites, vehicles, tractors, and the purchase
of tools and equipment. The costs of this subcomponent are estimated to be
USD 1.5 million, or 11 of total component costs.
Provision of Investment Credit
2.13      Investment credit will be provided to commercial farmers who are
not eligible to borrow from the CCADR for replanting stock, cloning, grafting
and phytosanitary needs, and for setting up small-scale plantations of 10-
40 ha each.   Plant protection chemicals only will be procured after IDA
review and approval (para 6.01(c)). Investment credit for the purchase of
trucks and equipment also will be provided to traders and truckers involved
in marketing, and to CM for rehabilitating cashew processing factories
located in the project area, namely in Xai-Xai (Gaza Province), Inhambane
(Inhambane Province), and Machava (Maputo Province). Rehabilitation of these
factories coupled with improvements in management and supervision of plant
operations will increase production capacity and throughput, increase the
output of whole and white kernels, and increase net income per ton of raw
nuts by about 152. The costs of this subcomponent are estimated to be USD
4.7 million or 36Z of total component costs. Of this amount USD 1.7 million
will be used to provide investment credit to commercial farmets, traders, and
truckers and USD 3.0 million will be used for the rehabilitation of cashewnut
processing factories.
2.14      In order to increase price competition and quality differentiation,
policies aimed at rebuilding traditional cashew trading systems will be
strengthened under the project.   Whenever practical,  the assistance of
traders will be sought to promote the confidence of farmers in the new
system.  The SEC therefore will implement a program to:  (a) orient rural
cashew traders and other potential entrepreneurs about new farm- and factory-
gate pricing policies; (b) use traders and other avenues of publicizing the
government's commitment to improve agricultural services and provide
replanting and cloning assistance; (c) ensure that factories continue to
offer price differentials in order to attract supplies from different project
regions; and Ld) make arrangements for consumer goods to continue to be made
available for barter trading. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the GOM will continue to authorize the cashew subsector to retain a
portion of foreign exchange earnings in order to finance inputs and consumer
goods to be provided to cashewnut producers and amounts allocated for this
purpose will be jointly reviewed by the SEC and IDA each year (para 6.01(d)).
Institutional Development
2.15      Local and international technical assistance will be provided to
strengthen staff capabilities at SEC headquarters.   Expatriate technical



- 18 -
assistance for the SEC will cover pricing policy analysis (six months),
accounting and cost control systems (eight months), and monitoring and
evaluation (seven months). Two economists will be posted to the Directorate
of Economics, one of them to function as Senior Pricing Policy Analysis
Officer. This officer will be in charge of setting up a farm- and factory-
gate pricing system meant to improve price incentives for producers (para
1.37).    Three  additional  senior  agriculturists  -- experts  in  cashew
production, extension, and agricultural management -- will be assigned to the
Technical Directorate of SEC.  One SEC economist will be sent abroad for
graduate level training in pricing policy.   Local training also will be
provided to six SEC agents in grafting techniques, to eleven agents in cashew
cloning and cultivation techniques, to two agents in extension methodology,
and to six agents in extension management and administration. This component
will finance training, technical assistance, incremental salaries, vehicles
and office equipment including microcomputers, supplies and training
materials.
2.16      The project also emphasizes support to improve management, train
staff, and upgrade the operation and maintenance of equipment at Caju de
Mocambique (CM).  Project funds will be used to:  (a) enhance the routine
accounting and cost control system for factories; (b) determine the
investments needed to bring the factories back up to full processing capacity
and to restructure and strengthen their management; and (c) train staff in
cashew processing and management.  In order to secure stionger Mozambican
representation in cashew export markets, two economists will be posted in a
new Sales and Trade Unit which will be established within CM. This unit will
monitor fore'gn markets and industry price trends, rebuild trading ties, and
look for more competitive prices in major markets including the EEC and the
U.S. An expert in cashew processing and industrial training also will be
assigned to CM for 24 months.   Additional tecinical assistance will be
provided in financial accounting, by-product development, the preparation of
bidding documents, and the installation of new equipment.  One CM officer
will receive training abroad in mechanical engineering, and two economists
will receive graduate-level training -- one in commodity trade and the other
in business administration. Twelve CM staff will attend courses in factory
operat_on and maintenance procedures.  The costs of this subcomponent will
be about USD 2.6 million,  or 19S of total component  costs.   During
negotiations,  assurances were obtained that:   (a) consultants will be
selected and hired on terms and conditions agreed with IDA and in accordance
with Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants (para 6.01(e)); (b) the
Sales and Trade Unit in CM will be legally established and later staffed by
a Marketing Economist and an Economist specializing in food processing and
the Senior Pricing Policv At.slysis Officer in the SEC Directorate of
Economics will be selected not later than December 31, 1990 (para 6.01(f));
and (c) a farm- and factory-gate pricing system, based on border prices, will
be designed during the first year of the project (para 6.01(f)).
Evaluative SurveXs
2.17      A survey to evaluate CM's performance, functions, and long term
goals will be initiated during the first project year (not later than October
31, 1991). Another survey on the agricultural productivity of women will be
carried out during the second project year  (Annex 7).   The costs of



- 19 -
monitoring and evaluation of project activities as well as preparation of a
follow-up project also are included in this subcomponent. The cost of this
subcomponent is estimated to be USD 0.9 million, or 7Z of total component
costs.  During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the survey to
evaluate CM's performance will be initiated during the first project year,
and the survey to assess the agricultural productivity of women will be
carried out during the second year of the project (para 6.01(g)).
2. Assistance to State and Commercial Aaricultural Enterprises
2.18      General.  In the context of implementing the ERP and improving the
performance of public and private agricultural enterprises (paras 1.41-
1.42), new capabilities are required for:  (a) planning the rehabilitation
and development of agricultural enterprises and identifying investment needs
and resources; (b) providing guidance to improve the performance of
enterprises; and (c) training management staff. In addition, thera is a need
to develop a strategy and policies for restructuring the subsector.   A
significant, institutionalized management training capability -- PROFORGE
(the Program for Training in Economic Management) -- hat been developed by
the Ministry over the past three years.   Other existing or proposed
enterprise rehabilitation programs, including the Enterprise Restructuring
Technical Unit (ERTU) financed under an IDA credit for the Industrial
Enterprise Restructuring Project, may offer some assistance to the Ministry
of Agriculture in investment planning for the larger agricultural
enterprises. Therefore, activities to be carried out under the project will
be coordinated with the ERTU qnd other units. These units were not designed,
however, to furnish, over a sustained period of time, the integrated mix of
policy planning, investment studies, and management services needed to assist
the wide array of private and public enterprises in the agricultural sector.
2.19      Agricultural Enterprise Restructuring Unit (AERU).  Agricultural
enterprises suffer from a lack of effective managerial support, employ
obsolete record keeping procedures, do not engage in long-term planning, and
need restructurirng and rehabilitation (paras 1.41-1.42). Strengthening the
existing Agricultural Enterprise Analysis Unit (para 1.21) and transforming
it into an Agricultural Enterprise Restructuring Unit, therefore, is
necessary to assist these enterprises and to improve MOA's formulation of
macro-economic policies and strategies governing investment in agricultural
enterprises, create incentives for derentralization and increased private
sector involvement in activities carried out by public enterprises, and
assess the need for and appropriate design of enterprise restructuring and
staff training.   Such a unit has been designed to:   (a) formulate a
restructuring policy and strategic investment plan for the agricultural
enterprise subsector; (b) prepare restructuring plans for priority
enterprises on a case-by-case basis; (c) supervise implementation of
enterprise restructuring plans which would require additional financing
beyond that provided under the project; (d) carry out subsector studies and
surveys; and (e) supervise training of agricultural enterprise personnel.
The AERU will include international and local consultants and staff (para
3.16 and Annex 6).
2.20      AERU Tasks.  The first major tasks to be carried out by AERU will
be to review existing guidelines formulated by DEA and to develop a



- 20 -
subsectoral restructuring policy and a strategic investment plan. This task
is essential if rehabilitation of agricultural enterpdises is to take pla.e
in the short term and additional capital investment to sustain modernization
and rationalization is to be made over the medium- and long-term. in the
meantime, followingt the agricultural enterprise survey carried out by DEA
(para 1.41), AERU will identify the key individual enterprises in need of
rehabilitation;  secure  access  to  financial,  planning,  and  technical
assistance resources for rehabilitation; and seek appropriate government
policy decisions to remove barriers to and increase the effectiveness of
these enterprises. AERU then will provide the specialized technical skills
needed to improve enterprise performance. These skills include designing and
introducing management assistance plans for organizational and human
resources development, introducing accounting and management information
systems, and preparing business development and marketing plans. AERU also
will commission studies and surveys needed for the restructuring of the
subsector.    In addition,  it will  supervise the implementation of the
individual enterprise restructuring plans and the training for agricultural
enterprise personnel. PROeORGE will continue to design and provide courses
to agricultural enterprise staff in general management, organizational
development, human resource management, accounting, information system
planning, investment planning and promotion, and business development and
marketing.
2.21      Component Costs.  The project will finance the services of local
and international experts to be posted in AERU and consultant services to
assist in the implementation of individual enterprise restructuring plans,
as agricultural enterprises are expected to need outside expertise to
implement the rehabilitation plans designed by the AERU. In addition, the
costs of training agricultural enterprise personnel in various disciplines
are included in this component. Overall the project will finance incremental
salaries, AERU personnel training, local and foreign consultant costs,
studies and surveys, equipment, vehicles, supplies, and AERU operating costs.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained thats (a) terms of reference
for the agricultural enterprise subsector rehabilitation and restructuring
policy and strategic investment plan will be furnished to IDA by GOM no later
than December 31, 1990 and the strategy and plan are formulated by October
31, 1991; (b) medium-term consultants for AERU detailed in Annex 6 (para
2.01) will be recruited in accordance with terms of reference agreed with
IDA, not later than March 31, 1991; and (c) the Annual Work Program will
include the AERU yearly study and survey program and assistance plan to
individual enterprises  (para 6.01(h)).   The cost of this component is
estimated to be USD 3.35 million, or 19? of total project costs.
3. Studies and Surve-s
2.22      Under the project consultants will carry out a National Irrigation
Development Master Plan meant to elaborate water resource management studies
for the main river basins in central and southern Mozambique, identify major
constraints in irrigation development, and formulate implementation policies.
The project also will provide resources to carry out a National Cashew Tree
Population Survey using simple, cost-effective remote sensing and sample
survey techniques. The survey, which will be carried out during the first
project year (not later than December 31, 1991), also will provide reliable



- 21 -
data about the age, condition, and location of cashew plantings and will
serve as a benchmark for estimating production and export yields from
existing plantings. The survey also will assist in establishing long-term
rehabilitation plans for the sector and in preparing a National Cashew
Development Master Plan including new areas. This second master plan, which
will be initiated not later than July 31, 1992, also will define near- and
long-term production, marketing, processing, and export objectives and
identify the requirements for achieving them. Its preparation will integrate
other planning and technical assistance work already undertaken under the
project. The terms of references for all the above studies have already been
agreed upon and are presented in Amnex 7. The cost of this component, also
detailed in Annex 7, is estimated to be USD 1.0 million, or 6Z of total
project costs.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:   (a) the
National Cashew Tree Population Survey is carried out during the first year
of the project; and (b) the National Cashew Development Master Plan is
initiated during the second year of the project (para 6.01(i)). Signing of
a contract, on terms and conditions agreed with IDA, for carrying out the
National Irrigation Development Master Plan will be a condition of credit
effectiveness (para 6.02(a)).



- 22 -
III. Proiect Implementation
A. Organization and Management
3.01      General.     The  Ministry  of  Agriculture  will  have  overall
responsibility for implementing the project. Implementation of the Cashew
Rehabilitation and Development component will be coordinated by the State
Secretariat for Cashew and its affiliated enterprise, Caju de Mocambique.
Institutional  support  for  the  Rehabilitation  and  Restructuring  of
Agricultural Enterprises component will be carried out by the AERU.  The
Studies and Surveys component will be carried out by the relevant State
Secretariats and will fall under their responsibility.
3.02      The Directorate of Agricultural Economics (DEA) within MOA will
be responsible for setting broad policy directives, establishing priorities,
approving annual work programs and budgets, and supervising activities. DEA
will ensure that:  (a) adequate coordination is established and maintained
between the project and ongoing agricultural rehabilitation and development
activities; (b) the appropriate annual and long-term plans, budgets, and
progress reports are prepared and presented to IDA; and (c) the results of
monitoring and evaluation are used as management tools by higher level
officials of MOA.
3.03      Cashew Rehabilitation and Development.  The Secretary of the SEC
will have overall responsibility for managing this component, in coordination
with the Director of CM.   An economist will be posted in the SEC's
Directorate for Economics to coordinate rehabilitation and development
activities. This economist also will serve as Component Coordinator (CC),
and will report on project matters directly to the State Secretary. The CC
will be responsible for preparing or coordinating Annual Work Programs and
Semi-Annual Progress Reports (para 3.20).   He will be assisted by local
technicians presently involved in procurement, accounting, and administration
and by short-term consultants in pertinent disciplines. The CC will oversee
procurement by the SEC and CM and other component expenditures, and also
will be responsible  for maintaining records.   The CC will follow the
procurement guidelines of IDA, and the record keeping and accounting
procedures prescribed by MOA, which have been found to be acceptable.  During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that any material changes in the
status or terms of reference of the CC will be made in agreement with IDA
(para 6.01(k)).
3.04      The following entities will be involved in implementing this
component:   SEC Directorates and Units, CM, the National Directorate for
Rural Development (DNDR) in MOA, INIA, the Bank of Mozambique (BM) and the
PFIs.
3.05      The SEC's Directorate for Economics will be responsible for overall
component coordination and especially for: (a) formulating and implementing
cashew subsector policies, particularly pricing policies; (b) supervising



- 23 -
preparation of the Cashew Development Master Plan; (c) quantifying needed
consumer goods and, in coordination with field supply centers, ensuring their
availability for producers and barter traders; and (d) in coordination with
CM and the PFIs, assisting with the preparation and assessment of investment
projects.
3.06      The SEC's Technical Directorate will:   (a) supervise, in close
cooperation with MOA's National Directorate for Rural Development (DNDR) and
its Department for Agricultural Extension (DAE), the implementation of the
agricultural extension subcomponent; (b) facilitate, in cooperation with the
National Agricultural Research Institute (INIA), implementation of the
National Cashew Applied Research Program; (c) supervise the rehabilitation,
management, and maintenance of cashew nurseries; and (d) supervise the
National Cashew Tree Population Survey.
3.07      The  SEC's  Department  of Administration  and  Finance will  be
responsible for hiring additional local personnel and consultants and
procuring  goods,  vehicles,  tractors,  equipment  and  supplies.    SEC's
Department for Human Resources will set up and implement training plans for
local staff. Both departments will be strengthened with local and foreign
consultants, as needed.
3.08      Overall,  the  SEC will  receive  about  30 months  of technical
assistance services to: (a) establish an internal management and accounting
system; (b) carry out research on cashew pricing policy; (c) improve training
and management of extension services; (d) assist INIA in implementing an
applied research program; and (e) establish project-financed nurseries.
Terms of reference for the expatriate consultants are provided in Annex 7.
3.09      The  Director  General  of  CM will  oversee:    (a)  management
improvement and rehabilitation of the three cashew processing factories; and
(b) in close coordination with the SEC Directorate for Economics, the
development and introduction of measures to streamline CM and the cashew
industry, including decentralized accounting systems and staff training. CM,
in collaboration with SEC and participating financial intermediaries, also
will help the cashewnut processing factories to secure rehabilitation credit,
procure and install machinery, and engage consultants.   Overall, CM will
receive about 50 months of technical assistance services, including:  (a)
long-term consultants for improving the processing systems of cashewnut
factories; (b) short-term consultants for strengthening institutional
development, financial accounting, and training; and (c) an engineer to
prepare bidding documents for factory rehabilitation and to supervise the
installation or repair of machinery. Terms of reference for the expatriate
consultants are provided in Annex 7.
3.10      Project funds provided by the banking system under the line of
credit will be used partly to finance cashew processin; factory
rehabilitation and partly to onlend to commercial farmers, traders, and
truckers (para 2.13) on terms and conditions established under the ongoing
financial sector reforms for the ERP (paras 1.06-1.08 and Annex 4). The Bank
of Mozambique will act in both capacities -- as the Central Bank (BM
(Central)), and as one of the participating financial intermediaries (BM
(Commercial)).



- 24 -
3.11      Funds allocated to the line of credit will be onlent by the
Government, in local currency, to BM (Central), in accordance with a
Subsidiary Administration Agreement to be entered into between BM (Central)
and the Government, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.   BM
(Central) will onlend the funds to the participating financial intermediaries
(PFIs). BM (Commercial), BPD, and BSTM will be eligible to operate as PFIs
and implement lending operations, provided that each one has entered into a
Participation Agreement with BM  (Central),  under  terms  and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (para 6.01(j)). The foreign exchange risk will be borne
by the Government.  This is necessary, in the short-run, because:  (a) the
economy in general and the financial sector in particular, are in a
transitory period where a centrally planned economy is being gradually
transformed into a market based system; (b) the economic agents are still in
the process of becoming familiar with the new system; and tc) appropriate
instruments and procedures to enable credit end-users to bear foreign
exchange risks directly are not yet in place. Eventually, under the project,
the GOM will charge credit end-users market-determined interest rates, thus
making end-users bear foreign exchange risk costs.   A residual spread,
estimated to average around 14Z at current interest rates, will be retained
by the Government through BM to cover the costs of administering the line of
credit and to offset the foreign exchange risk.
3.12      Most of the subloans provided under the line of credit would be
repaid over a period not to exceed seven years.   However,  subloans for
planting, replanting, and rehabilitating cashew plantations and processing
facilities will be provided with maturities over seven years (para 3.15).
These longer-term loans are presently limited and are likely to become more
restricted in the future. Therefore, in order to motivate PFIs to provide
longer term investment credit, BM (Central) has provisionally proposed that
it would retain 702 of the final onlending rate for subloans of up to a
seven-year term, and 60? for subloans of more than a seven-year term. This
formula also reflects the relatively high administrative costs of longer-
term investment projects, and the need to ensure that the spreads are
realistic by comparison to those on other funds in Mozambique at the present
time. The proposed spread ranges from 7? to 9? at the current interest rate
of  22?,  and will  be  reviewed  annually  (paLa 3.15).    The  financial
beneficiaries of the subloans will be allowed to apply for credit from any
of the PFIs. However, BM (Commercial) traditionally finances the processing
and marketing of export crops, so it is expected to lend to CM; BPD, with its
wide network of rural branches, is expected to make subloans for on-farm
development to commercial farmers, and to traders and truckers engaged in the
marketing of cashewnuts.   These project beneficiaries do not qualify for
borrowing from CCADR, at preferential terms and interest rates (para 1.39)
and, therefore, CCADR will not participate directly in the project. However,
from its own resources, CCADR will provide credit when needed to small family
producers  for replanting and rehabilitating cashew orchards.   BSTM is
unlikely to participate in lending because of its very minor involvement in
providing credit to the agriculture sector and its lack of representation in
rural areas.
_.13      Potential beneficiaries will carry out the initial preparation of
subprojects themselves, using assistance from SEC, CM, and private



- 25 -
consultants if necessary, and will present the subprojects to the PFI of
their choice. Because PFIs' autonomy is accepted as a guiding principle by
the GOM, they will select eligible beneficiaries and review the subprojects
in  accordance with  their own  loan  analysis  procedures.    Prospective
borrowers, including the cashew processing factories for which rehabilitation
feasibility studies already have been prepared, might be turned down by the
PFIs. Subsequent to subprojects review, the PFIs will prepare an appraisal
report according to a standard format, which may vary in depth and detail
according to the size and nature of the subproject. The report will cover
relevant information about the proposed investment, including its technical
soundness, financial viability, economic efficiency, and borrower managerial
capacity.   The report will also set down loan security requirements.
Financial rate of return (FRR) calculations will be required for all
subloans, based on a cash flow analysis, and a balance sheet analysis also
required for subloans above USD 100,000 equivalent.  An economic rate of
return (ERR) calculation will be required for subloans above USD 250,000
equivalent.
3.14      The PFIs also will verify eligibility for financing from the line
of credit, and submit the sub-projects to BM (Central) for refinancing
approval. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the sub-projects
for rehabilitating the cashew factories and the first three on-farm and
marketing development activities will be subject to prior IDA review and
approval.  Thereafter, IDA will review a sample of sub-projects on an ex-
post basis during project supervision. Receipt by IDA of a satisfactorily
signed and authorized Subsidiary Administration Agreement between the
Government and the Central Bank and Participation Agreements between the
Central Bank and PFIs, and approval by IDA of a model Subloan Agreement, will
be conditions for disbursing funds to the line of credit (para 6.03(a)).
3.15      Subloans granted under the line of credit will be denominated in
meticais and will finance up to 90 percent of total sub-project costs. Thus,
subloan beneficiaries will contribute, in cash or in kind, not less than lOZ
of sub-project costs. Subloans for rehabilitating cashew factories will be
repaid over a period not to exceed ten years, including a grace period of two
years. Terms for repaying subloans for agricultural machinery, equipment,
and trucks will range from three to seven years.  Subloans for planting,
replanting, and rehabilitating cashew plantations will be repaie over periods
not exceeding twelve years, including grace periods of four years.   The
interest rates charged on subloans to final beneficiaries will correspond
with the prevailing structure of interest rates (Annex 4).  The present
interest rate structure has been acquiesced by the IMF, and interest rates
became positive in 1990. The Government and IDA, under ongoing operations,
plan to jointly review each year, starting not later than March 31, 1991, the
structure and level of interest rates, and the level of spreads for PFIs.
At negotiations, assurances were obtained that onlending arrangements,
eligibility criteria, subloan processing proce4ures, and their review by IDA,
lending terms, conditions, and interest rates will be followed as agreed
(para 6.01(j)).
3.16      Assistance to Agricultural Enterprises.  This component will be
managed by the Head of the Agricultural Enterprise Restructuring Unit (AERU).
DEA will coordinate the start-up of implementation activities until AERU is



- 26 -
established, including the formal establishment of the AERU and selection of
the AERU Head. Upon credit effectiveness, the head of AERU, assisted by the
Director of DEA, will oversee the recruitment of consultants and staff. The
AERU Terms of Reference were agreed between IDA and the GOM during project
negotiations and are presented in Annex 6. The Head of the AERU -- a local
economist/agricultural economist -- will serve as component coordinator, be
responsible for day-to-day implementation, monitor and evaluate the use of
funds and resources, ensure that reporting requirements are met, and will
report directly to the Minister for Agriculture or his/her designate. The
AERU will include a technical assistance team of three medium-term
international consultants, namely an economist, a management specialist, and
an information system/accounting specialist. These experts will be assisted
by short-term international consultants in agroindustry, rural planning,
monitoring and evaluation, and training. Existing staff of the Sector de
Analise de Unidades Empresariais of DEA will be incorporated in the AERU;
incremental staff including an administrative officer/accountant, two general
or agricultural economists; and secretarial and other services also will be
needed. Terms of reference for the expatriate staff are provided in Annex
7. To be able to provide needed services, the AERU will also have access to
the  services  of  local consultants  including legal expertise.    During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Head of AERU also will serve
as Component Coordinator, his nomination will be agreeable to IDA, and
material changes in his status and terms of reference will be made in
agreement with IDA (para 6.01(k)).
3.17      Studies and Surveys.  The National Irrigation Master Plan will be
carried out by consultants under the supervision of SEHA, which will also be
in charge of coordinating timely input by other institutions such as the
National Water Directorate and the Ministry of Industry and Energy.   The
carrying out of the National Cashew Tree Population Survey and the National
Cashew Development Master Plan will be coordinated by the SEC. While the
Director of the SEC Technical Directorate will supervise the carrying out of
the first study, the Director of the SEC Directorate for Economics will
supervise the carrying out of the National Cashew Development Master Plan.
B. Programminx of Activities
3.18      An Annual Work Program (AWP) will be prepared by each Component
Coordinator to organize implementation and monitor progress on the project.
The AWPs of individual Component Coordinators will be consolidated by DEA.
The AWPs will include: (a) a review of implementation during the previous
year; (b) a detailed description of work to be carried out in the forthcoming
year, including objectives, staff training, monitoring and evaluation
activities,  deployment of staff and equipment,  construction plans,  and
procurement schedules; (c) requirements for additional staff and inputs; (d)
requirements and arrangements for technical assistance, and local and foreign
training; and (e) a budget and financing plan, including local and foreign
currency requirements. Assurances were obtained that starting in 1991, a
consolidated AWP will be submitted to IDA by May 1 of each year and will be
carried out as agreed with IDA (para 6.01(1)).



- 27 -
C. Project ImDlementation Review
3.19      A joint Government/IDA project implementation review vill be held
not later than March 31, 1995. This review will take into consideration data
compiled by the project Monitoring and Evaluation System described in
paragr&ph 3.21.   This review is expected to cover the impact of project
rehabilitation and development on the cashew subsector; the development and
benefits of the AERU; and the effect of the project on the farming community,
particularly women farmers.   Assurances to that effect were obtained at
negotiations (para 6.01(m)).   The results of the review will be used to
determine changes that may be needed to improve project implementation.
D. Reporting. Monitorins and Evaluation
3.20      Component Coordinators will be responsible for preparing semi-
annual progress reports describing the physical and financial progress of
the project and its impact to date. These reports will be consolidated by
DEA and should reach IDA not later than three months after the end of each
semester (para 6.01(n)). In addition, within six months of completing the
Project, DEA will deliver to IDA a project completion report describing all
aspects of project implementation and its benefits to farmers and to the
country  (para 6.01(o)).    Assurances  to this  effect were  obtained at
negotiations.
3.21      Data required for the above reports will be generated by a
Monitoring and Evaluation System consisting of a Management Information
System (MIS) and an Impact Evaluation System (IES). SEC and AERU will be
responsible for the detailed design and implementation of the two systems
both at headquarters and in the field. Assurances were obtained that the
design and implementation schedules for the systems will be presented to IDA
for comment and approval not later than March 31, 1991 (para 6.01(p)).
3.22      The Monitoring and Evaluation System will be designed to use
improvement of local capabilities as the primary measure of project
performance. The system will generate data required for conducting annual
impact evaluation exercises at the end of each cropping year. Moreover, the
results of the system will be available for use in preparing the project
implementation review (para 3.19).
3.23      The MIS will generate data needed for day-to-day managerent of
project activities, review of the previous year's activities, and
identification of changes needed in project management procedures. The MIS
will be designed specifically to:  (a) provide central and regional staff
with up-to-date information on the project to enhance decision making; (b)
improve the internal coordination of communications between agencies
implementing different subcomponents; (c) provide a data base for periodic
and ex-post evaluations of the project's impact.   The system will track
management interventions to ensure that key implementation targets are
achieved such as those pertaining to staffing and training, recruitment of



- 28 -
consultants, procurement activities, record keeping, and reporting schedules.
The system also will measure the effectiveness of project activities in terms
of incremental production, improving the delivery of MOA services to farmers,
upgrading the performance of state enterprises, and increasing private sector
investment.
3.24      The  IES will  generate  data needed  to  assess  the  project's
institution building achievements, its impact, and its cost-effectiveness
relative to national agricultural objectives and strategies. It will track
the achievement of such quantifiable benchmarks as the completion of training
programs and the return of permanent staff from training, the satisfactory
replacement of expatriate advisors, and the completion and acceptance by
government of major policy studies. It will assess performance against the
annual work program and budget, identify constraints and solutions, and
monitor the outside demand for AERU services. The system also will compare
the staff retention and morale levels of the project with those of other
government agencies, and survey farmer reactions to improvements in extension
and marketing services, their perception of needs, their use of services
(extension and marketing) and credit, and whether that leads to a change in
agricultural practices and cropping patterns.



- 29 -
IV.  Cost Estimates. FInanci  and Procurement
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      The total cost of the project is estimated to be Mt 18.9 billion
(USD 17.8 million), including physical and price contingencies. The foreign
exchange component is USD 12.7 million, or 71Z of the project cost. The unit
cost is based on prices prevailing in September 1989, projected to the
expected negotiating date of April 1990. Project costs have been calculated
on the basis of an exchange rate of Mt 865 per USD 1.00.   Physical
contingencies of 10X are provided for civil works and for the costs of
equipment and vehicles.   The costs of spares, estimated at 15  of their
purchase price, have been included in the base costs for equipment and
vehicles. Price contingencies for foreign costs have been added based on
expected increases in world prices of 4.92 from 1990 through 1995, and 3.7Z
for 1996 and thereafter. Price contingencies for local costs are based on
a rate of 202 in 1990 and 152 thereafter. A summary of project costs by
component and by project year is presented in Table 1 of Annex 2.



- 30 -
Ilozaambiaue
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Develoument Proiect
Table 1t Cost Summary
_,_.................... ......................................  ................... I.........................
I total                                       t total
teoal  forotp   total   tache_   eCoo   tloal  toe.p   fatal   Etchaip   Cots
cm"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ss sssssas atimilwae ,l,*,iss,ss sssssssagessss
8. CMI SIhSSICC9 EUhSh ttt|t1*1108t
...................
1. *RiWtUSItOR   SERVCtS
......................
EitESSICUt                                         851g9  t.640  2t #2. 9                  20    99t a  1.913.7  2.915.5          a8 s     0
USRCU                                               ". t9    119.1    13.          8         S    22.011  13O.?    too. s         88        I
CWSHOM t SOaltS                                    18    on. 1    94.0             8        a    131.0    "S. 8  1 O. 6          US,      0
Shtetolal  NSAICOIT ISRt SERvICES                     9       2.610.0  3.06.1         12       29   .1111.1  10161.  4.10f.0         n       29
2. IUVSiItEi  CR1I0
..................
an FAk UV. go0 IMETIU6                             242.0    1161  1022..           10       a    261.0    96.0  1.1*1.6           to       S
FACTO"  eIIMIIItIIt                                662.8a  1.3M.?1  2,04.4         Go to    166.2  1.n91  2.3*4.? Go           to*
SibTotal 1 1t1Atl CREIT                               96,8      61.2  3 1t-1          la      21  I.f  4   2491 2.     14& 1.6.3             2s
......................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. . I. . . . . . . . . . . .  .. ..-.    .. .  . . . .  .. . . .  . ...-. . .
3. ISStIIUTIU* REWE LO9IUN
caStE SECRlTTIATU     SIC                          381S    4811   814.6 1Q                  1    446.8    IN.2t  1.0111           so 
CaSi uD        etN*lI1t-C                          19. 8    169. 6    968. S       s0 o           22.    86  I  1.Iot a0                   8a
S*-ftlot  IUSTIlUtlOuM  OIVIIPU1I                     182.4  I.21.1  S.t M. S         so       IS    13.3  t.144.0  2.12?.3          as       I5
4. S*E1S                                              144.2   4fll61    602 9                  S 1    6.0    M210    611.0           1a       5
....................... ........ ............................................. ....... ......... ........ ........ ......... .......
-total CSIUI SUSICII t        lO itUItATIU             2.6t 1.0  6.40.2  9.111.2         it       13  3.0n 1.?  1.481 t  01.S40.2       t1       12
a    RcICtDLIe1 EDtERRRISE I     tSIUCRTIUS
i. ISglS cTURtISi MtP                                 261.3  1.1S". I   1.8ttl&0      MS       1     366 .0  1. M. I  2.101.1   6q           is
2.  IESTKtCIURIUlPt6 lltWt1l1I                         81.2    2159.1    34.          18        3     92.     2ao    382.9           is        3
3. RISISWCIURIIU  offTRAINING8                          5.9    S68o    S"2.4          s8        3      6.5    423.80   430.5         go        S
, ...........................................W  .......  -............................... .......
5t-otal ASRICItfStII ItVIRRISi hSTlC?U9IUS               31.4  2.11  1 *                 Ott    tO 20    4.       taj  2.926            as       20
C. STUDIES 8 SURVtES
...................
I.  Sfi31S 8 SiUsS                                    Ill S    641.1    819.2         19       1    S9L3    1`10.      941.1         79       I
..;  .. ........ ........ ......... ......... ................................. ........... ............ .......................
S4-1Ttal St18t1  8 StlWttS                               S1.    641.1    192 1.1                 19       6 *    MLS    148.6 9O 11     19        1
total SIM6S3   COSTS                                     ;.-;W   ; .2 6                    tt.48  1  1O   3.6o1  1    1  ;4.412.&4a       16      t00
"testal Cook,It_ l.                                      91.      3 S2.89   469         19        4    its.1    426.2    121.9         16        4
t:e CC ettqIma-oo                                     2.489   19863  1911.2            1W        40  1.331.0  1.413.2  2.04.8          Ss       19
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....................................... ................................................................................ ...............................
Total PROSIC  Casts                                       .22 12.9 1a82.8 18,66.           1o      12  8,082.  12,682.2 Itl. 6.0          *t      123t
4.02             The  DA credit in the mount of ISD 15.4 million equivalent will
cover 100? of forsigp costs and 54g of local costs. Over the project period,
GOM will cover the incremental recurrent costs at a progressively higher
rate.



_ 31 -
Mozambique
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Proiect
Table 2: Financing Plan
(USD million)
X Total
Local Currency      Foreign                 Project
Source of Finance         Costs         Exchange Costs   Total      Costs
1.  IDA                       2.7               12.7          15.4       86
2.  Government                1.2                -             1.2         7
3.  Participating Banks       0.7                -             0.7         4
4.  Credit Beneficiaries      0.5                              0.5        3
Totals                   5.1              12.7           17.8      100
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the GOM will allocate to
the project USD 1.2 million equivalent.  These resources are consistent with
the  recommendations  of  the  Public  Expenditure  Review.    GOM's  annual
contribution (Annex 2, Page 2), will be increased gradually in real terms to
ensure project sustainability and to cover all recurrent costs of the project
after the eighth project year (para 6.01(q)). To help prepare the project,
two advances from the Project Preparation Facility in the amount of USD 0.8
million were  granted by  IDA.    These  advances  were  used  for hiring
consultants, related expenses, and for purchasing vehicles to be used by the
project preparation team.   These costs have been included in the Cashew
Rehabilitation and Development component.
C. Procurement
4.03      The  procurement  of  items  financed  by  IDA will  follow  IDA
guidelines. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that IDA's procurement
guidelines are followed (para 6.01(r)). The procurement unit established in
the Ministry of Commerce is familiar with IDA's procurement guidelines.
Therefore Component Coordinators will need to rely on this expertise in order
to facilitate procurement activities.
4604      Civil works of a total value of about USD 0.2 million, which
involve   small-scale,   labor   intensive   rehabilitation   of   physical
infrastructure over widely dispersed remote areas and are spaced over a five-
year period, will be handled by force account. Whenever possible, purchases
of goods, including vehicles, equipment, and machinery for factory
rehabilitation to be financed under the line of credit, will be bulked into
contracts of more than USD 100,000, to be procured by international
competitive bidding (ICB). Domestic manufacturers qualifying under ICB will
receive a preference in bid evaluation of 152 of the c.i.f. bid price of
imported goods, or the actual customs duties or import taxes, whichever is
lower.   Qualified domestic contractors will receive a preference in bid



- 32 -
evaluation of 7.5s  of the bid price.  The procurement of plant protection
materials to be finalized on a year-by-year basis, and financed with credit
proceeds will require IDA review and approval of type of material and
procurement method (para 6.01(c)). Small, off-the-shelf items costing less
than USD 25,000 each which are urgently needed for project implementation may
be purchased by "prudent shopping" after obtaining at least three price
quotations. Tb -se items include primarily training materials and spare parts
for vehicles. Ihe total value of items purchased under prudent shopping and
direct purchase shall not exceed USD 100,000 without prior IDA agreement.
Procurement of agricultural equipment and materials to be financed under the
line of credit will be done on the basis of annual requirements by
beneficiaries who will follow established commercial practices, with a
minimum of three quotations from two or more geographic sources of origin.
The average value of individual contracts is expected to be less than USD
60,000.
4.05      Consulting services for technical assistance and carrying out of
studies will be procured according to IDA guidelines.   Arrangements for
overseas and local training also will be subject to IDA approval. Scientific
journals and text books needed for staff training may be purchased directly
from suppliers.   Other project expenditures such as staff salaries and
recurrent operating costs will follow local government procedures.
4.06      IDA-financed contracts exceeding USD 100,000 for vehicles and
equipment excluding the line of credit component will require prior IDA
review of bidding documents and evaluation reports before contracts are
awarded. Other IDA-financed contracts will be subject to post-award review.



- 33 -
Mozambicaue
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Prolect
Table 3: Procurement Schedule
USD Million
Expenditure
Category           ICB       Other        NA        Total
Civil Works            -         0.2         -          0.2
-       (0.2)         -         (0.2)
Vehicles/             3.5         -          -          3.5
Equipment          (3.5)        -          -         (3.5)
Technical              -         3.0         -          3.0
Assistance           -        (3.0)        -         (3.0)
Training               -         0.6         -          0.6
-       (0,6)         -         (0.6)
Studies                -         1.9         -          1.9
3       (1.9)         -        (1.9)
Training Materials/   -          0.2         -          0.2
Vehicle Spare        -        (0.2)        -         (0.2)
Parts
Line of Credit:
- Factory           3.0        -           -          3.0
Rehab.         (2.4)       -           -         (2.4)
- Agr. Equipment    -         1.7          -          1.7
& Materials      -       (1.1)         -         (1.1)
Sub-Total             6.5        7.6         -         14.1
(5.9)     (7.0)         -       (12.9)
Recurrent              _          _         3.7         3.7
Costs                -          -        (2.5)       (2.5)
Total                 6.5        7.6        3.7        17.8
(5.9)     (7.0)       (2.5)     (15.4)
Notes: (1) Figures in parentheses represent IDA financing.
(2) PPF USD 0.8 million included under Technical Assistance.
(3) Plant protection materials included under Agricultur4l
Equipment and Materials.



- 34 -
D. Disbursements
4.07      The proceeds of the USD 15.4 million IDA credit will be disbursed
as follows:
Mozambigue
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Develogment Pro1ect
Table 4: Disbursement
Category                   USD Million            Percentage
A.  Civil Works                    0.2           10OZ Expenditures
B.  Vehicles and Equipment         3.0           10O1 Expenditures
C. Technical Assistance,
Training and Studies        5.0            1001 Expenditures
D.  Line of Credit                 3.0           OOZ Foreign Exchange and 701
of Local Expenditures
E.  Incremental Staffing           1.5    )       *
F.  Other Operating Costs          0.7    )
G.  PPF Repnyment                  0.8           10OZ Expenditures
H.  Unallocated                    1.2
TOTAL                             15.4
* 10OX Expenditures incurred between 11191 and 12/31/93; 80Z between 111/94
and 12/31/94; 60S between 1/l/95 and 12/31/96; and 302 after 1/1197.
4.08      Disbursements for all expenditures will be made against full
documentation, except for items (E) and (F) above and for expenditures under
contracts and purchase orders below USD 20,000 equivalent each; these will
be based on statements of expenditure.   Supporting documentation for
statements of expenditure should be retained by the borrower for IDA review.
The statements of expenditure will be subject to special audit each year
(para 6.01(s)). Funds under the line of credit will finance 1002 of foreigr
expenditures (c.i.f. costs) of directly imported goods, and 701 of the cost
of locally purchased goods and services. The balance of sub-project costs,
including any taxes and duties imposed on imports, will be financed by sub-
project beneficiaries and the PFIs under their domestic credit ceiling.
4.09      The disbursement period of eight years coincides with the Bank
profile for agricultural projects in similar Southern African countries. In
order to ensure timely disbursement of funds, consultants will be employed
to improve the management capacity of SEC/CM, procurement specialists will
be provided, and the Procurement Unit of the Ministry of Commerce will offer
assistance.   The projected completion date is December 31, 1998 and the
closing date would be June 30, 1999. The estimated disbursement schedule
for the IDA credit is as followst



- 35 -
Mozambiqaue
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Proiect
Table 5: Disbursement Schedule
---      ------------------(USD million)-------------------
FY   1991   1992   1993   1994   1905   1996   1997   1998
IDA
Annual                2.9    3.4    2.4    2.4    1.7    1.2    0.8    0.6
Cumulative            2.9    6.3    8.7   11.1   12.8   14.0   14.8   15.4
Percentage of
Credit             19      41     56     72     83      91     96     100
Total
Annual                3.2    3.7    2.6    2.6    2.0    1.5    1.2    1.0
Cumulative           3.2    6.9    9.5   12.1   14.1   15.6   16.8   17.8
Percentage of Total
Project Costs      18      39     53     68     79      88     94     100
4.10      Special Account.   To ensure that funds for the project are
available when needed and to reduce the number of disbursement claims to be
processed, a Special Account in US dollars will be established at a
commercial bank acceptable to IDA. Once the project is effective, IDA will
deposit USD 1.0 million into this account to pay for any expenditures to be
financed by IDA. This amount is in line with the anticipated 3-4 month rate
of disbursement. Further deposits by IDA to replenish the Special Account
will be made against withdrawal applications which are supported by
appropriate documents.
B. Accounts and Audits
4.11      A review of the auditing, accounting, and financial management
practices of public and private enterprises in Mozambique was carried out by
the Bank's Internal Audit Department in 1987. The review team found that the
accounts of many state enterprises were in arrears, even though a standard
accounting system was instituted in 1984.   Therefore,  the project has
provided for a short-term accounting specialist and local contract
accountants to streamline the SEC and CM accounting systems.   External
auditing of enterprise accounts is not yet required in Mozambique, and there
are few independent auditors.   Therefore, the project has provided for
external auditing costs. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that SEC,
CM, BM (Central), the PFIs, and AERU will maintain separate records of
project expenditures in accordance with sound and consistent accounting
principles.   Annual financial statements will consist of a sumaurized
statament of the Special Account and individual project accounts.   These



- 36 -
statements will be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. The .
auditor also will prepare a separate opinion on the statements of expenditure
and on transactions carried out through the Special Account. At negotiations
agreement was reached on these accounting and auditing procedures and that
the audit report will be submitted to IDA within nine months of the end of
each financial year (para 6.01(t)).



- 37 -
V. Benefits. Risks. SuO.ainability and Environmental Effect
A. Benefits
5.01      The major quantifiable benefit of the project is the incremental
production and exportation of cashewnut associated with improved services,
provision of investment credit, and the rehabilitation of processing
factories. At full development, some 50,000 small-scale farmers and about
loo commercial producers will be involved in cashewnut production. Thus the
project will increase the average annual production of intercropping (1,200
tons of maize and about 1,000 tons of beans), and cashewnut by some 10,000
tons.   This incremental production will increase the country's potential
earnings from import substitution and foreign exchange by about USD 12.0
million a year. The project also is expected to offer permanent new jobs in
the family and commercial subsectors for about 600 skilled laborers and 2,000
unskilled laborers. About 752 of these laborers are women employed in the
family subsector and in cashewnut processing. In addition, unquantifiable
benefits will accrue from the restructuring of the agricultural enterprise
subsector and other project activities  (para 5.04).   The cost benefit
analysis for the project is, however, based on the cashewnut component.
Representative  farm models and  the  incremental kernel  yields  or  the
extraction rate resulting from the rehabilitation of the cashewnut processing
factories have been used in this analysis. This basis appears appropriate
given the project's emphasis on strengthening agricultural services and the
uncertainty in project implementation caused by the security conditions in
the country.
5.02      Farm Models.  In order to quantify expected returns under the
cashewnut rehabilitation and development component, three farm models for
cashewnut have been prepared. These models were selected to represent the
range of typical investments that could be made, although in practice many
combinations of these basic models will be implemented. The models are based
on the best local and mission estimates, and therefore should be considered
only as illustrative. The estimated financial and economic rates of returns
for these models are given below, and further details are provided in Annex
2.



- 38 -
Mozambique
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project
Table 6s Financial and Economic Rates of Return
on Selected Investment Models
Model Size
Cashew Model                 Ha)              FRR         ERR
Family Farm
Intermediate Tech.        1.0               29          42
Family Farm
Upgraded Tech.            1.0               32          45
Small-scale
Commercial               10.0               36          53
5.03      Cashew Processing Factory Rehabilitation.   The benefits from
rehabilitating the three factories have been quantified based on the expected
improvements in kernel yield during processing. Of the overall yield, the
proportion of whole kernels is expected to increase from about 311 to about
402. The estimated financial and economic internal rates of return for the
rehabilitation of the cashewnut processing factories are given below with
further details in Annex 2.
Mozambicue
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project
Table 7: Financial and Economic Rates of Return
for the Rehabilitation of Cashewnut
Processing Factories
Project Investment
Factory Location             (USD '000)             FRR       ERR
Xai-Xai                    1,300                  23        31
Inhambane                    800                 31         38
Machava                      480                  25        35
5.04      The  project  is  expected  to  generate  several  unquantifiable
benefits, as well. First, by introducing pricing and marketing policies to
stimulate greater competition and efficiency in the agricultural sector, the
project would strengthen the participation of the private sector in the
economy. Second, strengthening existing institutions is expected to enhance
services to farmers and to accelerate the integration of women already
involved in the cashew subsector into the economy.   Third, setting up a
monitoring and evaluation system will provide a much needed, reliable data
base.  Fourth, restructuring agricultural enterprises will make them more
efficient and economically viable.



- 39 -
B. Risks
5.05      The major risks to the project pertain to the security situation,
the inexperience and low implementation capacity of the borrower,
organizational difficulties, and insufficient and protracted funding.  To
increase security, project field activities will be limited to relatively
secure areas.   In addition,  special institutional components have been
designed to address the borrowers' inexperience and organizational
limitations. For example, multi-disciplinary technical assistance teams will
be provided to help local staff carry out rehabilitation and to provide
intensive management training. The consulting assistance provided under the
project will help to install improved systems of financial control,
accounting,  information management, planning, and record keeping.   This
assistance also will help to train local staff to maintain these management
systems.  To improve funding, assurances were obtained that GOM budgetary
allocations will be made in a timely manner and expanded as needed in order
to cover all project costs by the eighth project year.
5.06      In spite of all the measures mentioned above, some risks remain.
The implementation of projects in Mozambique tends to progress slowly as a
result of delays in decision making, slow procurement of goods, and poor
supervision and support. The security situation is unpredictable, changes
constantly, and may hamper implementation. Special efforts therefore will
be made during project supervision to introduce a flexible approach to
implementation and to assist the GOM in decision making and problem solving.
C. Sustainability
5.07      Project sustainability pertains to institutional and financial
factors.    Institutional  factors  affecting the project  include  severe
shortages of qualified staff in Mozambique, lack of coordination of
agricultural sector investments, and overinvestment in selective subsectors.
MOA will need to exercise due leadership to prevent these factors from
detracting from the project.
5.08      The  financial  sustainability  of  the project  is  affected by
budgetary constraints which limit the government's contribution to the
project.  The shortage of funds to sustain ongoing activities is severe, so
incremental budgetary outlays by GOM could be limited, particularly during
the initial years of the project. In 1986, for example, less than 32 of the
fiscal budget was directed to agriculture.   To improve the financial
sustainability of the project, funding has been formulated in a manner that
will minimize the strain on GOM's budget during the initial years of the
project. The MOA is expected to gradually increase its contribution as the
expected economic benefits from the project begin to materialize.



- 40 -
D. Environmental Effects
5.09      The project is expected to have a number of beneficial effects on
the environment.   First,  training given to farmers will be based on
technologies which safeguard the delicate balance of agro-ecosystems.
Second, the adaptive research program to be implemented includes support for
integrated pest management.   Third,  training will be offered in plant
protection which incorporates pest management concerns. Fourth, the use of
applied research as a foundation for the technical packages will ensure that
soil productivity is maintained and that inputs and farm management resources
are used rationally. Finally, the mixed and rotational cropping techniques
to be taught to farmers should help to enhance soil fertility and reduce
erosion through better vegetative coverage of the soil.
E. Focus on Women
5.10      Women in Mozambique play vital roles as farmers, managers, decision
makers, and farm laborers. According to the 1980 census, more than 60Z of
family farmers are women. Although women do most of the weeding, harvesting,
threshing, storing of food crops, marketing of surpluses, and household
tasks, knowledge of their customs, needs, and use of advice is limited.
Therefore, a study will be carried out to examine these factors and their
relationship to agricultural productivity (Annex 7).  Under the project,
women farmers will have equal access to extension services, and steps will
be taken to increase the number of female extension staff and women
participating in farmer groups.   VEWs will try to schedule their visits
during the afternoon, a time which is most convenient to women. The project
will monitor the timing of VEW visits and the project implementation review
will include an assessment of the project's impact on women's agricultura'
productivity.



- 41 -
VI. Agreements to be Reached and Recommendation
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)  Extension services to be carried out under the project in the Gaza and
Inhambane provinces will be integrated with ongoing extension activities
financed by other donors in said provinces (para 2.09);
(b)  The formulation of the National  Cashew Research Program will be
completed by the end of the first project year and its implementation
will be initiated by the second project year (para 2.11);
(c)  Plant protection chemicals will be procured after IDA review and
approval (para 2.13 and 4.04);
(d)  Inputs and consumer goods financed with retained foreign exchange
earnings generated by the cashew subsector will continue to be provided
to project participants, and amounts allocated for this purpose will be
jointly reviewed by the SEC and IDA each year (para 2.14);
(e)  Consultants will be selected and hired on terms and conditions agreed
with IDA and in accordance with Bank's guidelines for the use of
consultants (para 2.16);
(f)  (i) The Senior Pricing Policy Analysis Officer in the SEC Directorate
for Economics will be selected and the Sales and Trade Unit in CM will
be legally established not later than December 31, 1990; and (ii) a
farm- and factory-gate pricing system, based on border prices, will be
designed during the first project year (para 2.16);
(g)  (i) The terms of reference for the preparation of studies and surveys
to be financed with credit proceeds allocated to the cashew
rehabilitation and development component, will be agreeable to IDA; and
(ii) the study to evaluate CM's performance will be initiated during the
first project year, but not later than October 31, 1991, and the survey
to assess factors influencing the agricultural productivity of women
will be carried out during the second project year (para 2.17);
(h)  (i)  Terms  of  reference  for  the  formulation  of  the  agricultural
enterprise subsector rehabilitation and restructuring policy and
strategic investment plan will be furnished to IDA by GOM no later than
December 31, 1990 and the strategy and plan will be formulated by
October 31, 1991; (ii) medium-term consultants for AERU will be
recruited not later than March 31, 1991; and (iii) the Annual Work
Program will include the AERU yearly study and survey program and
assistance plan to individual enterprises (para 2.21);
(i) (i) The National Cashew Tree Population Survey will be carried out
during the first project year; and (ii) the National Cashew Development



- 42 -
Master Plan will be initiated during the second project year (para
2.22);
(j)  (i) Lending terms and conditions and sub-loan processing procedures
will be followed as agreed upon; (ii) participating banks will provide
from their own resources short-term credit to cover the incremental
working capital requirements of project beneficiaries; and (iii) the BM
will enter into Participation Agreements with BM (Commercial), BPD and
BSTM on terms and conditions agreeable to IDA (paras 3.11 and 3.15);
(k)  Component  Coordinators  will  have  experience  and  qualifications
satisfactory to IDA and material changes in their employment status and
terms of reference will be made in agreement with IDA (paras 3.03 and
3.16);
(1)  The project Annual Working Program rill be submitted to IDA by May 1 of
each year starting in 1991, and wi 1 be carried out taking IDA comments
into account (para 3.18);
(m)  A joint GovernmentlIDA project implementation review will be carried
out not later than March 31, 1995 (para 3.19);
(n)  Every six months project implementation progress reports recording the
physical and financial progress of the project and its impact will be
prepared in a format agreeable to IDA and forwarded to IDA not later
than three months after the end of each semester (para 3.20);
(o) A project completion report,  dealing with all aspects of project
implementation, and evaluating the benefits derived by farmers and by
the country from project implementation, will be prepared within six
months of completing the project and forwarded to IDA not later than
one month later (para 3.20);
(p)  Design  and  implementation  schedules  for  the  project  Management
Information System and Overall Evaluation System will be presented to
IDA for comment and approval not later than March 31, 1991 (para 3.21);
(q)  Local resources allocated to the project will be gradually increased
in real terms to ensure project sustainability and to cover all project
recurrent costs after the eighth project year (para 4.02);
(r)  Agreed upon procurement procedures will be followed (para 4.03);
(s)  Records of project expenditures will be separately maintained and will
be audited annually by an independent auditor satisfactory to IDA; this
auditor should also be asked to prepare a report to verify disbursements
based on statements of expenditure and on transactions resulting from
the use of the Special Account. The audit reports will be forwarded to
IDA within nine months of the end of the financial year (para 4.08); and
(t)  Agreed upon accounting and auditing procedures will be followed and
project audit reports will be submitted for IDA review within nine
months of the end of each fiscal year (para 4.11).



- 43 -
6.02      The following would be a Condition for Credit Effectiveness:
(a) Signing of a contract with qualified consultants on terms and conditions
agreed with IDA, to carry out the National Irrigation Development Master
Plan (para 2.22).
6.03      The following would be a Condition for Disbursement of funds
allocated to the line of credit:
(a) Receipt by IDA of satisfactory Subsidiary AL.ninistration Agreement and
Participation Agreements, and approval by IDA of a model Subloan
Agreement (para 3.14).
6.04      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project is
suitable for an IDA credit for the equivalent of SDR 11.9 (USD 15.4 million)
to the Government of Mozambique on standard IDA terms, with 40 years
maturity.



to



-47-           Annex 1
Chart I
L J~~~I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



Moambl
a.ticulturaI R.kmbilitmt. ed b.v.oI.meuab Prolect
socr.tarlt of Stat for Ceshew
21P
Celu de Moeeblto
Or'oelmlon Chart
AICRICWTURE
STAT SERTRA                                                              CAJU DE        WASXll 
[DIRECTORATE OF EC_t                                                                                         E
ITEOlNICAL DIFREATO                                                                    AMEAI ItX
CADS~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
DEPARTMECT OF
PROVINCIAL OFICES SCASSE fACtS                                                                                            \
~~~~~DISTRICT OFFICES 
/               IIIOMISlKtl    POTS                  \21



*GuICu,t3tig   omisiti*80. dUo 013f0P103  34
9.-jeci ComtbSm by 1w
*  3      ~~~3    4      9      6       I      a    total            f      2      *      4       9      0       I      a     **
JI.    2     ::.s tan.;. ..a..n stats;... t...... I........  ............ .SSSS f  ....... ...... .. a.S.. ....... .......t*........
muIhlom                          6~~~~~~~~~~~93.4  321.6  2W4 S283 3  394.0  930. 0  983.4  492.t 4. tit I680  393.0 I2M0  3434   MI9  3833   $4163  Ml 0 3. lia 
48 4    S82   269S    26    a30    6.9    1.91      aI    8 83          Ss3 98  353    334    2.4      A  3.9        S S9   S0 a      0
oaswm u*m 91 3*                              M0. 4  230 6  liP 3  14302  302.3  3414  2346   M882  (6831             a29   "1.3I  2113.6  133.2  w82   in.8 a201.0  "S44  3.499
lab total aC8C3t3etu38 SIUicII                 831.3  606.?  9066  W92801.343  164.2  69.9S  fall.0 9.313,1             O4t. 3  689.2  961S  483. 0   M9. 4  903.6a  012. 931.2 9.M283
2 33VI9311341 123333
an $MO Mt A 313g33133                               1443 21926  3'ZIS  3868   363 4  2110  291 3  1. "S 3                -  399         t 3921   w83     369  # 2 M9 193    33a 3.63I
303:306 3Iwttt86t3t3t3                       9399   694.C2  433 2    9.23  362.96  120.   3604   36.A  2.98S       3M.09?m.S? 10943         904   3012   32. 9   32.3I s 68   2.0189
lb333lEWSIhIMN  CR1331                     o29 S314  1920  334.6  123  9813.  433.4  343S9I go. 93                3. 83.t I    122   M493   3419 S668.   4488  3238  24M54 4.6368
C8S3A~3& 11*6330sit                     63e.6  433.8 293I3.g  30.0 3a3       M 13    8063.1  bill0  3 318 .4           3063   4999    49 I .    MO164    2.0 4   as   to.. 89   3.33 0
1*6 lotal l3111301361N 83V11313t               4860   90e  40. 9  2382 34 so 2a M6  20.4  241 I S.13M                   40.9 6 "10.1  4Mo.9  39a.0  M9. 3  23. 0   M5.3 I039.1   no36    3
'.uawws                                      649S  2329   628 a     9.8   639   13,0  393.3 2 36 4   331.3   2.19  24A.  162.6   g0.21  92.2   99.2  141.3 163.6   W6.3I
I  9633U  4411,111301311339                            300 8  114 9   133 2 0I9,4                      . 498 3                 $ 481.91  1341.6  3233  126.3 J                       3
2 otsioC333613cl 32*3116W                       130   366.3  39.2.   922 't 336 a                          413.1        86.8 I312.2  M9.4 *0a0    334           .      .           43
lab 3.*1 3033:333W  33361313  u3SIU3loiCIG   634 1  3464  3626  313.8  403.4                 .        .3213062       14.3 I 3.0).     2g    m      4399       -              .3      I)
I  Stotts9a Sant$                              44339  462      68go8                                       334         943.4  0l4.9  0161.6 1111.
S.& 30383 933031181U39319S                        44130   43213   a86                      .             . 39.4           9333 a4349 .                         We3.032I
total 13183: CoIst                                3.36t993.98A9.22.33 1.3436.0 .333  .66 0.S  as.63 e.9866 33.392         3.3M.  389. 3 13.41A.26  1.3 M.329.  I.Me. l.243. 6.323. MIS. 3.90
2,ZSt*L taS,ttt    ...t*  JSSZ*flShSdffl  *tfl .*S ...S....tf So.      tS tt;3 ..*S. 8.*as  #gownet sta$   a...... ....s.. ta.te.. a..etSS..
34b9iaty 21. PM9I0 643 



Mozambique
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Devolopment Project
Cashf low Anal VIa   (Racurrert Costs)
(U38000)
I     II   III  IV      V      VI  VII  VIII  IX   X    XI  XII  XIII   XIV  XV   XVI  XVII  XVIII  XIX   XX
Outf low
Salaries 1/           188   280   297   818   829   279   809   848   888  82s   822  816   810    804  29S   292    286    280    274   288
Other
Operating Exp. V/  156   157   168   174   182   152   168   175   178  171   189  167   165    18e  161   169    157    155    158   15t
Total Outflow     842   487   468   487   511   481   472   518   50s  50    491  488   475    487  469   461    443    435    427   419
Inflow
0N9 Dlabur_e nt       -      -     -    100   206   175   886   885   509  S6    491  483   475    47  469   451    443    435    427   419
IDA Dietu rsmnt      842   487   468  W87   866   266  142   168    -    -         -    -      -      -    -     -       - _           -
Total Outflow     842   487   468   437   5ll   431   472   618   609  5N   491  488   475    487  459   461    448    486    427   419
y Extension staff In the project area would docline at an annual rate of 21 beginning In project year IX.
!/ Other Operating Expenses Include: office expenses, local travel, and vehlele maIntenance. Operatlon and maintenance costa of vehicles.
motorcyclov. and bi cycles, directly related to the number of extension workers, would decline at an annual rate of 23 beginning In project year IX.
0Qt



Mozambique
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project
The EvDue .t Ibrdme Po-Igo.
_ ~~s3.    ,,,_ghs  p,us                       b . .t.s  pr.~s                   .6_,  u.we  e
t$" wles   asest    l        I         t.s * i               p               s.
Al 100_-)   sif *I   I is IBM         %ppea0ss  ea.bms re
a_ s *_        ot a_     Sl       am   Sil fl        f       wleleS .   t_mstmi pr_ices
"b 46.4  Nb _    "N l     Nb I3   Nb we  "Nb IOi. _so _          U              1165
Rain    *t6.a         3.6      *.O     1.1      e.g     *.*      *.*     650   so*           la..0
_..         160.8         8.1     0.6      1.1      0.3     0.5  ..9    _1   13.6                1. I
We.?          1.8     0.7     0.0      0.1     0.4      0.0 :1 :Wa                   UP.o
M9.?         5.0      0.6     1.1      0.3     0.8      0.6     16.3    U.*s.
117.0         1.5      0.9     1.0      0.1     0.1     0.6    136.6   oft.6         16.6
low.,  as.?          1.?     0.6     0.?       0.1     0.1     0.6    118.4   118.1         176.?
_6.0          1.0      *.,     0.5      o.0     CS o      .a     76..   s.*           Me.$
pm        1618.1        1.,      0.5     0.5      0.1     0.8      0.4     43.6    sA.9        11.
5.,       OlO.?          0.5     0.o     0.6      0.0     0.8      0.5     46.2    3.          S7.0
kts  gwa.  :  s .sp.ev Sm te  m .1 rnls e.I 0.0.
Ad      Aw Qemekas
w~~~~~~~~~~~eh                                  Gore ati* osfem_r  MA   "01 
4 Ibw d s _eshl 12o t _ d rttz S 0.0  .
>lr



- 53 -
Annex 2
Appendix 1
Page 1
MOZAMBIQUE
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Proiect
Farm Models
Financial and Economic Analysis
1.01      Financial  Analysis.    The  financial  analysis  of  prospective
investments in cashew planting has been carried out on the basis of three
farm models.   The models have been selected to represent a range of
investments and are given for illustrative purposes. The three models are:
Family Farm Intermediate Technology 1.0 hectare; Family Farm Upgraded
Technology 1.0 hectare; and Small-scale CommerciaI Farm 10.0 hectares. The
first model assumes a peak yield of 8 kg per tree with purchased seedlings
and without application of fertilizers.  The second model assumes a peak
yield of 10 kg per tree with purchased grafted seedlings and a moderate level
of fertilizer application and husbandry.  The third model assumes a peak
yield of 12 kg per tree with purchased grafted seedlings and a commercial
level of technology and management.  New trees will come into production
after about four years and will reach full production at about the tenth
year. All models include 44 trees per hectare with spacing at 15m. x 15m.
and a similar grade mix of the raw nuts. They also include intercropping
with maize and beans with the addition of a patch of cassava in the two
family farm models.  The prices used are the official farm-gate prices.
1.02      The financial rates of return (FRR) calculated for all three models
are  satisfactory.    Including  incomes  from intercropping,  the FRR are
estimated to be 29 percent and 32 percent for the Family Farm Intermediate
and the Family Upgraded Technology models, respectively, and 36 percent for
the Small-scale Commercial Farm model.
Financial Returns on Farms - Sensitivity to Chante in Cashew Price
Family          Family        Small
Farm            Farm         Scale
Intermediate     Upgraded    Commercial
Base Rate                               29               32          36
Increase in Cashew Price
+1OZ                               34               35          39
+202                               37               38          41
+302                              LAO               40          43
Increase in Cost of Production
+lox                               28              29           33
+2¢'Z                              26              27           31
+302                               25              26           27



- 54 -
Annex 2
Appendix 1
Page 2
1.03      While all three models yield a satisfactory rate of return, the
small scale commercial farm provides a higher return compared to the other
models owing to its improved management and consequent higher yield.
However, due to the relatively high level of inputs, it is more susceptible
to cost increases. The intermediate family farm on the other hand with a
lower cost on inputs has a higher positive response to any producer price
increase than it would a negative response to a cost increase.
1.04      Detailed  financial  information  on the  factories  is  lacking.
However, based on available information on existing and expected yield
increases, it has been possible to quantify the benefits of rehabilitation.
The investment in factory rehabilitation is expected to result in an overall
average kernel yield or an extraction rate of about 21.02, up from an average
of about 19.0?. Within this overall increase the mix of processed nuts also
would improve, for instance the proportion of whole white kernels would
increase from an average of 31? to an average of 402 in the three factories.
Based on these assumptions the financial rate of return has been calculated
as follows:
Xai-Xai   -  232
Inhambane - 312
Machava   -  252
The differences in the rates between the factories reflect the differences
in the current levels in the yield mix. The poorer the present yield mix
the higher the gains realized with the rehabilitation.
1.05      Economic Analysis.  The costs that have been taken into account
in the economic analysis of the farm type models described in para 1.01,
include all incremental on-farm investments, replacements, and operating
costs as well as recurrent costs. A shadow exchange rate of MT 1300 = USD 1
has been used in these calculations. Owing to prevalent unemployment, wages
have been shadow priced at 75? of their financial costs. The economic rates
of return (ERR) for the Family Farm Intermediate Technology, the Family Farm
Upgraded Technology, and the Small-scale Commercial Farm have been estimated
at 42 percent, 45 percent, and 53 percent, respectively. In all cases, the
rates are well above the opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent. Details
of the sensitivity analysis are given in Table 4.   In the case of the
Intermediate Technology Farm Model, the benefits would have to be reduced by
47? and costs increased by 882 before the investment would become
economically inviable. The corresponding rates for the Upgraded Technology
Farm Model are -54Z and +115? while those for the Small-scale Commercial Farm
Model are -40? and +68?.
1.06      In the case of the factory rehabilitation the computations !rove
been made in US Dollars. In computing the economic rate of return several
price and efficiency factors were taken into account.   Taxes have been
removed from the revenue and the labor costs have been shadow priced to
reflect the level of unemployment prevailing in the labor market.   The
Economic Rate of Return has been computed as 31? for Xai-Xai, 382 for
Inhambane, and 352 for Machava factories.



MR. NOW. & or9UFew aRMv
FMPULY ri   1n1gmAUa T11006O11
I lb II. (lb Me.)
bWit                           1        1        8        4        G        0        7        *        0       so       1        1        1        14
Jlul~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2                                                                                         0    4            6 
I;1     1 o          *        o    1        *                                           s         me       m       t
"   g                               *        °                      .   g         O       g       ~~~~ ~ ~~ ~~                    ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40  m  noX 
to                                                                                                                      o                 o        o. 
Uel  1.                    44° "    40       46       40       06       440      44      44       J         4
h;./to..                                                    0       0.  0.  0.9                          1        6        0       8        0.§ S                  0        0
*o4-tli                                                                                       go 0              no       in        o       m e               =a      an eo
tolFop.Cod ma                                                                             s       d        to       0n         0      *        m       a"       an        a"
T4 ; M1                                                  m                                                                         4 1             l         4     d           am
Obim Am  "a~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~m   m am m
TeoiP,d.cso                                                449      402      132 U.  U.l       m t.SmISam                                           a        m          s       .
yield/be                   e                              4S0      480      400      400      400
pVolvots                 14O                                      9S       Om       9011SD   O0
gala.                                   81              ItOD     8060    8M000    2000    IIDD00
Daa.. At"~               "a                              0.05    0.00     0.06     0.05     0.06
yield P4 ps                                                       an         S      US 
prodection  No                       16.25   16.26   16.25    10.25    16.35
C*m- o Atom              "a                             0.05     0.06     0.00     0.06     0.06
yl.ld                     Ka                             5000    0800    5000    am0         a00
pro  eet...              K16                             SOD     "10      J  D     ZDD      44OD     41400    "0                         704D Ka42 Tso  no
aote                                     6 _1000    30    2000    3000    3000
PRMUSCTI1 LST
NM, tra..
le"d prop.                                             1l000
sOdMlifo                 oer/t.ro      480              gm0      140         0        0     9000     1000        0     180       340        0        a        0        0        0
_oinsto.aco               per/1.        1s0              80    1a00    8300                 8         20 0 640 0  640  7040     70    7040    7040    7040    7t40           7040
tNOl aaoe                                                00               w00               S00               no                Mo                G00               No0
ShIuer %troo*
asintobowco               per/trlb.      8   37000D              8000    2B400    la0        900
b total   cea                                         1030200    8000    610      470     16OW0    I000    0           0 40    700    7040    7140    70C0    7?0           7040
MOSL CROPS
Shias                       t/h        60000             12000    971      972      973      Om1
Sagas                     Nt/a          0000             880      1000    3000    100        S
Total Prod. cost                                       473S0   30170   3027    ism7    8097         am0      6000    604       790      7040    784       7040    7540      7040
Total ro*oo                   725   3                                         S    18_      321       6O      24000   830O   1o0         40000   W6OO    64600    656M   Io
To,l cost                                                47a60   370    3037    U1170   870    0l200            le0    840 7n00    70l4w0   7t40            7040     7540     7040
"ot rova#wo                                            -24815      an       966      -a8   -4746    -200    110O        3o    3010    30          484 60      eo    SO 80      760
fPnancia*         0.20921
Eccaast           0.422471
t1t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a l



A. RD". A0 DEVaL0P4E PF0JET
FAMLY Ft IPWRAOW8 TE1809Gt
I tQa tBD. (Isn M.)
Prod.ctios/veIle           UnLt    Unit                   1        2        a        4        a        6        7        0        9       10       11       12       13       14
tcost             - - - - - -  -- - - - - - - - - - - -  --- - - - - - - --   ---- ---------_-_------------------------- _- _------------ ______-----
Cash"e
Tree  Mtmtrs              Ro.                                       20       Slt0     t        16       10        a
piold/tre.                                                  2        2        2        2        2        2        2
Production                                                 44       40       40       32       82       20       12
Tree. mm                                                   s0       s0 S     30       30       40       40       40       4        44       44       t4      44        44       44
yiOlditree                                                  0        0        0        0        2        °        a       10       10       10       tO                10       10
prodectiso  (1)                                                               0        0       s0      18       240       00       00      300      300     SO0       300      800
(2)                                                                                                    0       0        20       s0      sO      10O       100      100
(3)                                                                                                            0        0        0        0        a       20        32
(4)                                                                                                                     0        0        0        0        0        0
(8)
eeb-totl nse                                                               0         0       so0     150      240      800      320      350     SE0      406      420      432
Tet1l Prodectios Caei                                       44       40       40       82       92      170      8t00              8320    8S0       SW0     406      420       432
Tot *tls. ce                                              am0 20   SO      2000oo   6400   low       840      soft    80000   640        7000    76000      8000 04000   060
A_twl Intor cropeine
lb    Ar.. HA                                             0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2
Ield/a                    Kg                             700      700      700       700      700
prodecteon                tg                              140      140      140      140      140
Val"                                    1t0             16400      400    15400     C 180   150
See_. Area                Mt                             0.06     0.06     0.06     0.05    0.06
gi-eld                   tt                               450      460      450      480      480
rrJoetion                 Kg                             226     2 22.5    22.6    225       22.6
Volv                                     204 4000                 40       40       400    4060
C *e  Area               te                              0.08     0.00     0.05     0.06     0.06
Yield                     Kg                             8000 am    0          5000 8000    a 00
production                Kg                              20      260      250       250      230                                                                                                         \
.al.e                                    6              2X0      2000    200       2000    2000
Crop Val".
Cashe                                                    sow      a0       am00     6400   184M0   34000   60400    0000   64000    70X0    76000   6IND   04000    06400
Itai                                                    15400   16400   1UO4    15400    18400
m                                                        4<060    4060    4050      4050     4080
C    .                                                   2000 2000    20   2000    200       2000
Total                                                   0210   29430   20460   27860   36060    84                    0000   6400    700    75000   61600    84000    66400
C IUCTI4 COST
Mmt tree_
I ed prop.                                              10000
seed in" grafted          tre           7£0            22500    4W0D         0        0      7500     18t0       0    80         6n0        0        0        0        0        0
amnaeseCa (1)          peree,        180              OM6        90     9000     820     10050    9000    000        792      790      792      7920    7920      79M      7920
tbture tr*o.
siftneso                  per/tree      150             SS00      8000    3000    2400    2400        1800
sr  tote, ceehent                                      6010    16600   1250    1060    20           1200O     7O0    lof2t     900      7920      420    7920      6420    7020
lb; t.                      t/h        66000D            180M     13000    13000    18000    1D0
e                          Mht/he      0oo0o              4000   x800    300         3200    m0
C-omwa                     ift/ke   t 3         Z          left    180     l680     1680     1880
VA   t/t0l                                            20680    1780    17060   1766O    17908
Utset reVmooe                                            8020    2904       "S094S0   27O60    60IO    84000   80400    0000    040    70000    700   61600   04000   06400
Totel coot                                               70O    84350   30860    20830        _       120DO    60m0    10920    9020    7920    6420          M0    0420      7920
not re                                                 -406o    -49 00      900      -0       160   MM    413l20   4606o   6S496    62000   67s6o    736So    7UttO   784o                      t_0
IR                                                                                                                                                                                             ID      7
Fisaecisl        0 317706
(1) harseet,s. p.oticide  end other phasd O*P_eW



AtR. RS". a  EE98.OP         PRtJECT
9V.L WSALE C     RIAL F                                                                                                                                              t
to lH iMt (tn W.*.)
Fra Production              uh.;t    unit                   1         2        8        4         6        a        7         8        9        10       is       12       13        14
C_0h"
Tre  nmm                                                    440      440       440      440       440      440      440       440      440      440       440      440      440      440
tiold/troo                                                    0         0        0        0        9         5        a        10       12       12        12       12       12        12
proWect.... (1)                                                                  0        0       M0      uoo      am        4400     am.      696      amo       GM       am       sm
Tota. lel... c.ju                         M0                   0        0         0        0   170000   44000    7040C0   000000  1OS0    066000  1060    10600   1066o0    106600
_oI ftat4r eropping
gb.oeArco                  lb                                 a         6        4        8        2
yield/Je(pS54)             Ka                              1200     1200    1I00    1200         1
prod..ct.ai                Kg                              am0      GM0       400      a60      2400
Volvo                      H.            110             6600   660000        i00      6000  32640
8_^e Ar"                   "a                                 2        2         2        9        2
yi.ld/h(p014)              Ka                               600      sO0       800      600 M0O
production                 Ka                              1O0O      10       1000     1000      100
ca.                          .            180             2800    1800    1600    1600   160000t                              D     10 lSOO   OOO                 t        0
".0"                       mt.            Mb    tMOO                   o    ISEO=    iscoo   ioooo
Crap vo.2..
Cashew     oft                               ~     ~ ~~~~~0  0   0        0   17600    44000    70400    86000   10600   106600   106600   106400   106600   106600
$big a.I                                                 66000    660000   626000   000    96140
S_ga                       of.                           16  S0100    1800000  1600000   160000
Totat,                   ft1.                           BMW         t00   to         7c      GO        440000   7oooo   8o60   lo.  ooo   1          0660 00  1066000    uCO  I10
Predctin Coat               In $f.                        413600   10260      7900    7C200   126400   167200   230    2SM    801400  20S100   2t2600   2S1600   26160    Z/0600
Cooobauet
seedi .g                   p*r/tra       7               60000   8sa00
pl.1titg                   per/tr.        10               4400      am0
Instnac                    p.r/           as5             l400    1400    180    1t400    B110    1840            18400    18O0  a1m400    15400    1540    1U40           800     18400
tool.                    per/trap        25              11000              1000                                 11000              11000             11000              11000                                 Vn
prun,a                    per/troe       29                                          *         1000              11000 llOC  IIOC  11000   ltX1001w0IIOCO    11000 
pesticides                per/tra*       60              26400   29640      260      26400    96400        O 40  2940 0      00    26400   2940    2U90    2600    2U00    26400
peto. unpin..             p0r/1re0 40                    176      17600    17600    1760       70       17600    17600a   17600    17600    176       1760O    176       17600    17600
h.r...t.ag                 per/kg         40                                                   8120      6600    14060    17600    92200   21120       1120    911200   21120    211200
.e.b total                                              418600   106060    -M20      790   126400   16790    2100    26           801400   2S1600   202600   2S6160   261600  27060
Ab.ut caop
sap". Cot                           ~                                   4 977          094 16
OWSO                       kg/he                          OM4          4  247 t               128M
*ub total                                                8S2    84542    32548   206          2X
Operating Cost                                            626519   28664    175771   151w    07686
Nai.                       kg                              U 176068    91168   1718    91185    118US
Sub tota                                                 6071   824620   26M4   22Mi    179                  0        0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0
total cost                                                 96914   719571   690    44          SU7627
totale;accae                                               tOOO   840000   70600       78000   620000   440000  7o4000   SW00000  1066000  1060   1066000  1066000  1066000  1066000
eoLal **oft*"                                            13tt0514   621451   6772   5727    S5U180       187t200   26lO00   966600   8011400   20600   926      291800   2600i  270600
tot l;o                                                  -470614    14         6 la96   8908   1069     27M260    4760O   4000   7646         774400   76o0    774400   774400   786400
1ti  Finac.l                 6       0.341644
IRf Ecoamc.                          0t°'                                                                                                                                                                      i
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..    
W (0t



MozambIow
AariculturaI Robbi ttt.to. and Owonmmt Prolct
Ecoomic Atelmala - F*Pr Modem
(In MeticaIs)
190       1901       1992      1993       1694      1906       lse6     1S07        1998      1090        _        2IM        2692
BoneC I ta
Form Type 1 Ia        83734      86374    8$6374      29774     83784      1826S     8906       5269      69406     6am        924e9   186926    188140
Famr TypO 2 /b        46110     48706      48706     41166 60 66W          56169     93188     tsn       1065DO    115660    12S460      134040    1S86O6
Farm Type 3 /c      126566    1206960   1677669    0966        69869    726OMM     1161060   1462696   1742406   1742469   1742408   1742400   1742406
Costs
Far Typo 1            63923     29980      27805     25476      4U161       984       8260      108a      9466      6446       9040       0448      9648
Famr Typo 2           92658     41220      86420      34236     469e9      1446      15        1n164      10824       564      1014        9604     1010
Far Type 3          1778761   1147191    961918    O S            788 2146"   27720    86246    86106              887926    851126    887920    887921
Not
FaPe  Typo 1         -27649       6444     g069       429       -g7         8866     $l8W      421202     4092      675162     83S32       842      09102
Famr Type 2          -40094       276t    7870        0914      14064     41769       324      65606      94770    190         126    10136    1284
Fem Typo 8          -S1861    117809    126682        M0    2687    556             6        11467      1N7       14646    1802        1404480   146448
sitchinA vlah at 125 OCC
s      ut 'mu
Fen Tyo 1                43        146       -47         so
Fm Typo 2                45       2S7                   Si 8
fam TyJ 8                53                   4 
/   Fr Type I a I be o1 P11 ty Oly  Ce_          t Uaing lo.t*h  bA       ob   salw
Fb aro Typo  2 a 1 ha of Faily I 0oss Ceshmet halg  pradsd           a
/a  Fom T         a a101 h  of Cemeccially Grow Ceshmuts



ASeigutt*rO itbabiliIsl  sad iOsolopt ma Projrse
Projestd Flasacitl A    its of Fctsr  RoMbIllltst
T40ear                                    4        a                                            10
- - -- - - - -- - - - -- -- -- - -- - - - _--_-_  .. ..._      
- Proosiag  or    i-xi                               a0m      am       am       Om       a8        aeo      am       a        6000     amo
- Froce4asn  tas bh _6o                              400      480      4        4800    4800       4800     4000    4800      48       480
- Praco"s.a  bmw  babes                              7000     700700     00     70       700       7000     700       00               7000o
TotX l                                   160        I"8      s      1600l       10    160   _ o           0       180      1600
-   ei-Ta)                                        0       196      80       480      610      t   610  01       00       010      ¢00
- oabsabane                                         0        0       Ua      1924      so      574         4       74      874      574
-  _.av                                                                        1s      78      US       08       US        US       5
Bab totOl                                           0               8        6                 14       1478     1 478             t47
wrmatal    t I/
-  Xs;-Tai                                        8        lie      1e       16       190      190       too     ls       1ts      lie
- Inhaeba                                                  on       to 1     1        to       1to       190      10                120
-   ca                                                              8         79       7        7        79        7        70       7
Sb ft"t                                           8        800      714    8so         97        W       8W7      897       9
wba b        2O _t 2W
-X;-Xai                                       -0          2      1412   4U         41U      41t      418      418      U4        418
-abwaom                                          0      -6        -a8       7o      ON       464      464      484       4X4      484
"-Cho.*                                             0        0     46        -s0       -8      n          o      2t10     O    O
Swb Woa                                         -M       -0       -ff  t             44      17        17        07S     107      10
Xt Xs;-Xb;                                   0.20
In UAd&bs                                    0.35
I/ FPm< project cost ables
2/ FP    Table - Sisifs from lecrea_od fact"  eatractisa rts
I.n



Ag.iculturo RebhMitstion end 0.v t 00t P oJct
Projecatd Etonom;c USmefito ot PectoI ReblA       tio
Y'ow           1        2        a        4        a         i        7        6        0       10
- Proceeng tone xei-Xlb                                0      8i       8000      000 i             800         0               000     8000O t
- ProCes.ne tone inh_en                              40       4800     4800     48       4800      4WD0    4800    4800       4800     4800
- Promein,  tons rAdc.v                              70o0     7000     700      7000    70         7000     700      70       l0ow    700
toto"                                    1800    180       10800 16 8i00    1680       16800    16m00    l0o0    1mm00    l6ow
Infcrgeetal b.ito
- Xw-Xs;                                            0      2t       877     8MD        7       6         67t      670      67       g7m
- Itnheabo                                          0        0       20      214     8an       87       at7       68r      S87 W    6SW
- bcihe                                                                       di       71      a"?      860       8o       80      8a8
Seb total                                           0      5        406      764      1146     162t     1075      67      1878     10175t
lIcr-c_ eml                                            m I,11
In Ttl x2                                                                       lOSES_ eJ                               ___ste w     i e U
h b6*0                                                            we        -s       so       so        s       so        ag       so
Sub total                                         98       741      0l4d 0     40                        846 So  so  an    34t       t
Not ben.#f;  2/
- Xes-xi                                         -<lt 1 1            2       isa      us ana             an0        9      600      s0o
- InAemtben                                         0     -572        4      111      460       at  U 8           68         4      884
- lha                                               0   0          -76       -17        *      90       2e2       O2       t        2Ut2
S.b tot                                         .                                             me2 42 5 0 V 1803    1am   U3  8    2
n xe,i-xei                                   0.81
V4M Inheabane                                0.111
Vdt ohebr.w                                  O.JS
1/ From project cost tbe1   - edjet
2/ From Table  - i1nifit. f o  increteed fe*tory eetrecioe rdA
08
0
a.lo
I- 11014
%Xi:



- 61 -
Annex 3
Page 1
Mozambique
Aaricultural Rehabilitation and Development Proiect
Description of the Cashew Subsector
A. Growing Aspects
1.01      General.  Cashew (Anacardium occidentale L.) is a typical tropical
tree cultivated between the tropics at low elevation (below 500m). Optimum
conditions are found between 4 and 16 degrees from the equator, with 1,200
to 1,300 mm of annual rainfall well spread during about seven months and a
dry season of 4-5 months for flowering and fruiting. Cashew thrives best on
deep drained red soils. These conditions are ideally met in the Northern
parts of Mozambique. Cashew is grown by the local population in these areas
but also further south, from seeds, in dispersed stands, and receives
practically no cultural attention during its lifetime.
1.02      Cashew Tree Population.  No reliable information is available on
the actual cashew tree population in the country. Recent uguesstimates' vary
from 30 to 50 million trees and are based on data obtained from the last
Census, carried out in 1970; these figures are highly speculative and
therefore cannot be used to assess future production potentials. According
to the last Census, almost half of the fruit bearing age trees are located
in the Northern Province of Nampula.   In Southern Mozambique,  cashew
cultivation was and has remained concentrated in the provinces of Inhambane
(1970: 13 million trees) and Gaza (1970: 4 million trees).
1.03      Although no investigations have been carried out, there is no doubt
that most trees have passed their productive age (between 10 and 20 years)
as no significant planting or seeding campaigns have been carried out since
the mid 1960s.   Natural and sub-spontaneous  seedings are continuously
occurring but their influence on the age structure is unknown.  The past
marked decline in production therefore may be largely attributed to the aging
of trees. Tree age is a major constraint and will increasingly limit the
output of nuts in the future.
1.04      Production Conditions.  According to existing climatic conditions
in the cashew belt the country may be divided into two distinct regions, the
dividing line being the 20th Southern parallel.  Northern Mozambique with
generally favorable climatic conditions; Southern Mozambique has some
limitations, viz a less regular rainfall pattern, a less marked dry season
with occasional rains during the flot>ring and fruiting season, more frequent
droughts,  and lower minimum temperatures.   Climatic conditions improve
gradually from south to norths in the northern belt the Province of Nampula
has optimal climatic conditions, wh'Ue in the southern belt the provinces of
Inhambane and Gaza have more suitable climatic conditions than the Province
of Maputo further south.



- 62 -
Axtnex 3
Page 2
1.05      The best  soils  for  cashew production  are  found  in Northern
Mozambique (sandy loams and Ferric Luvisols), but the more sandy soils
(Cambic Arenosols) in the south also are suitable for cashew growing. Red
soils are generally 2 to 4 meters deep, become loamier with depth and have
higher water holding capacity, allowing trees to stand a long dry season.
Proper soil management can improve the moderate fertility of red soils and
further increase their water holding capacity. The more sandy Arenosols of
the southern provinces are usually very deep and often excessively drained.
Their texture is coarse and water holding capacity limited. However, proper
soil management can improve their low fertility and to some extent also their
water holding capacity.
1.06      Since cashew was introduced from Brazil some 400 years ago, hardly
any systematic selection of seeds has taken place, and cashew has been
developed almost exclusively from unselected seeds which have multiplied over
the years and been planted countrywide.   The genetic characteristics of
available planting material are highly heterogeneous.    There exists  a
considerable tree-to-tree variation in yields, nut and apple size, kernel to
nut ratio, and oil content of shells.  In 1969, the Instituto Nacional de
Investigacao Agricola (INIA) established at Ricatla (20 km from Maputo) a
Cashew Experiment Station and planted a germo-plasm collection of about 500
clones from high yielding and high quality nut seedling trees identified in
various provinces. Another 24 selections were established at the Nhacoongo
Experiment Field in Inhambane Province. Due to disruptions in observations
and data collection, only a provisional selection of 15-20 outstanding clones
was possible. After final assessment of their potential values these clones
together with promising clones imported from Brazil and India will form the
basis for multiplication of high yielding clonal planting material at the
nursery of the Nasurama Cashew Development Center in Nampula.
1.07      While several pests and diseases of cashew have been identified
in the past, their effect on output is difficult to assess.  So far, they
have not yet led to any major plant protection campaign at the national
level. Mildew (Oidium anacardii), a fungal disease that affects flowering
under certain atmospheric conditions, especially humidity, is common in
Northern Mozambique, but does not appear to be as damaging as in Tanzania.
Severe outbreaks of Erurinia mangifera, a bacterial disease which causes
shrinkage of cashew apples, have been observed in the Gaza and Maputo
provinces, but its occurrence requires further study.  Common also is the
trunk borer (Mecocorynus loripes) which eventually kills the tree, but can
be easily controlled by the producers themselves.   Systematic spraying
programs against mildew do not appear to be economically justified in
Mozambique where cashew trees are widely scattered among small family
holdings.
1.08      Yields.  With no information available on either the total number
of trees or the part of production that is consumed on-farm, there is no
reliable data on the average yield of cashew trees in Mozambique.   A
reasonable overall mean estimate would possibly be between 1 and 1.5 kg per
tree per annum. Yields of individual mature trees iiry considerably, from
less than 1 up to 35-40 kg. per annum recorded for s me trees. Generally,
the overall yield of plantations does not usually exceed 250 kg per ha. The



- 63 -
Annex 3
Page 3
Secretariat of State for Cashew estimates that in Gaza and Inhambane
Provinces, yields of individual mature trees (10-15 years old) of the family
subsector can be doubled (from less than 4 kg per year to 8 kg) by using
selected seeds and appropriate weeding and pruning techniques. Older, less
productive trees could be revitalized again by a complete trimming back of
their canopies. Yields of mature trees in not too densely planted modern
plantations (15xl5m) could reach about 12 kg per year - or some 500 kg per
hectare - by using good yielding planting material (carefully selected seeds
and seedlings, or high yielding clonal grafts).   More densely populated
plantations (up to 7x7m) may result in higher yields but would not permit
continuous intercropping.
1.09      Producers.  Traditional smallholder farmers are presently the only
producers of cashewnuts in the country. Their farming system is exclusively
based on family labor and no inputs are used.  Even where cashew is grown as
a major cash crop, trees are always widely spread and interplanted with
annual and other perennial crops.   The main annual crops are groundnuts,
maize, sorghum and cowpeas; the perennials are cassava, "mafurra" and
"canhol, both indigenous trees, but also coconuts in Inhambane along the
coast. Weeding and ploughing - sometimes using animal traction - is common
for annual crops, and cashew benefits from these practices.  As the fertility
and water-holding capacity of most soils in the cashew belt are low, cashew
competes with annual crops for nutrients and moisture. After soil fertility
is depleted, peasants shift their food crop production to other more fertile
soils (usually after about 4 years of cultivation) and their cashew trees
remain in the fallow area where they receive less attention. Although yields
of the family sector are low, their active participation in cashew replanting
and development schemes is indispensable if the declining trend in national
production is to be reversed.
1.10      No modern, input intensive cashew plantations exist in the country,
but the objective of the AfDB-financed Cashew Rehabilitation Project in
Nampula is to establish this type of farming system. The initiation of that
project, prepared in 1983, had to be postponed several times, mainly because
of security problems in the project area. As the project has started only
recently, it will take at least another decade of effective project
implementation to prove whether the project strategy of converting
Mozambique's traditional method of cashew growing into a modern, capital and
input intensive plantation type of farming is feasible and sustainable in a
country where capital, foreign exchange, technical and managerial skills are
scarce and rural family labor constitutes the most important resource of
development for many years to come.
B. Collection and Marketing of Nuts
2.01      Collection.  Cashewnuts are harvested over a period of about
five months from October till March. As trees are scattered and yields are
low, considerable time of the farm family (mainly women and children) is
spent on the collection of the nuts. This is normally done once a week by
searching the ground under the trees. Fruits get easily spoiled, but nuts
can stay for more than a week on the ground if the climate is dry. During



- 64 -
Annex 3
Page 4
the rainy season, nuts have to be picked up daily.   When the nuts are
collected the fruit flesh is cut off. Fruits (or 'fruit falso') are consumed
directly or used as local brew ('aguardente de caju'), but most of it is
usually wasted. Upon collection, the nuts ('castanha') are normally drier
in the sun for two to three days before being stored or taken to the nearcet
shop or collection point. Harvest time coincides with the rainy season and
this often poses serious difficulties and delays in the transport of nuts
from the primary collection points.
2.02      Marketina.  During the colonial period, collection of raw nuts
from the farmers was ensured by a network of rural merchants ('cantineiros')
who supplied the rural communities with basic necessities against cash or on
barter. This marketing system was disrupted at Independence, but has been
restored to some extent.   In 1981, there were some 5,400 private traders
involved in the marketing (mainly purchase) of various agricultural
commodities including cashew. This number dropped to some 3,100 traders in
1985, mainly due to increased insecurity in rural areas, poor infrastructure
and difficulties in obtaining spare parts and keeping transport trucks
running. In Gaza and Inhambane the number of private traders decreased from
more than 1,100  in 1981 to 440  in 1985.   The  State  Enterprise  for
Agricultural Marketing (AGRICOM) does not handle cashew, but has at times
purchased small quantities of cashewnuts in the past when private traders
could not enter the production areas or were not able to arrange transport.
cashewnuts are also procured directly by individual factories through agents
especially appointed by them for this purpose.
2.03      All private traders are registered through the Provincial Offices
of the Secretariat of State for Cashew (SEC) where they are categorized as
Provincial or District Wholesalers or District Retailers. The retailers are
responsible for the primary collection and delivery of nuts to the District
Wholesaler from whom they obtain their allocation of goods for barter or
selling to the rural population. The District Wholesaler delivers the nuts
to the Provincial Wholesaler or, in some cases, directly to the nearby
factory. He on turn is also responsible for the picking up of allocated
consumer goods.  Government control of the private traders was rather strict
in the past, but has of late become more flexible. All agents -- private,
state, or cooperative -- are bound by purchase regulations issued yearly by
SEC. These regulations determine the purchase and selling prices of nuts,
transport cost compensations and profit margins. Announced prices are set
and revised from time to time by the National Commission for Salaries and
Prices (CNSP) on the basis of proposals from SEC and the Ministries of
Agriculture and Commerce.
2.04      At the collection point nuts are put into jute sacks supplied by
factories through their purchasing agents.   Transport of raw nuts to the
factories, main port, or railway station is the responsibility of the agents
who aire compensated at the rate of 50? of the transport costs, according to
the earlier mentioned price and purchase regulations that are published
yearly by SEC before the collection season.
2.05      At present only one third of the transport fleet that operated in
the early 1980s in rural areas is still working. In particular the number



- 65 -
Annex 3
Page 5
of private trucks has declined. AGRICOM still has a fairly large fleet, but
suffers from the same problem of old vehicles and lack of spares; usually
only about a third of its trucks and half of its light vehicles are
operational.  Some traders have their own trucks but most of them have to
hire trucks from other traders, private transporters or state organizations.
When basic consumer goods are in short supply, rental of trucks also takes
the form of barter and is paid for in terms of nuts.
2.06      Most of the feeder roads in Mozambique are dirt tracks and their
maintenance is poor due to the very limited resources that have to be spread
over a large network of secondary and tertiary roads. Major truck arteries
are in somewhat better shape but this is due probably more to the quality of
original construction than the adequacy of maintenance. The generally poor
state of the road system takes a considerable toll on the operating transport
fleet,  and raises real transport costs.   Rail transport is especially
important for the cashew trade in Nampula. Rail links, however, continue to
be targeted by the rebels and little maintenance has been carried out over
the past years.  Coastal shipping has traditionally been important in the
transport of all agricultural surpluses to major urban consumption centers
along the coast and the country's three international ports: Nacala, Beira
and Maputo. Excess raw nut production is regularly shipped from the northern
region to the chronically product deficient factories of Maputo. This again
raises the overall transport costs and calls for a more careful planning of
location and use of installed capacity of existing processing factories.
2.07      After initial sun drying to a humidity content of about 4_5
percent, cashewnuts can be stored up to one year without any significant
deterioration of quality if storaRe rooms are well ventilated and sacks are
stacked  in  such  a way  that  sufficient  air can pass  through.    Most
smallholders apply some form of crop storage, but capacities and quality of
structures vary from region to region. Retailers and local shops have only
very limited storage capacity. Larger private traders may have some storage
facilities but their quality is not always good and their structure is
usually more appropriate for merchandise than for crops.   AGRICOM has a
fairly widespread network of warehouses and provincial authorities can
arrange for allocation of warehouse space to different users according to
need.   Finally, nut processing plants have adequate storage capacity for
their needs.
2.08      The marked decline in marketing of cashewnuts in the recent past
has been largely a consequence of the country's economic crisis and the
inappropriate pricing and marketing policies. Lack of local and imported
consumer goods on the market deprived, in particular, the rural population
of most basic necessities: textiles, soap, oil, and petroleum. Even locally
produced foodstuffs which in the past entered rural markets from other
surplus producing areas in the country, became scarce. The general breakdown
of the rural markstinR system resulted in a retreat of the family sector into
subsistence agriculture. With hardly any basic goods available on the market
and the drastic deterioration of relative (administered) prices of
cashewnuts, all incentives to collect and market raw nuts were removea. When
in 1985/86 the Government undertook to allocate a special stock of goods in
exchange for cashewnuts, a full-fledged system of cashewnut bartering



- 66 -
Annex 3
Page 6
emerged. Cashewmnuts are now exchanged not only for scarce consumer goods and
food, but also for labor and transport services. Nuts are also stocked as
a hedge against inflation or as a savings to meet future needs.
2.09      Finally, another important constraint to cashew marketing is the
suitability  of nuts  to serve as a substitute  for food crops.   Self-
consumption of cashewnut by rural families has increased considerably in
recent years, particularly due to shortages of groundnuts. Groundnuts have
always been a basic staple of the rural diet in cashew growing areas. Due
to drought, diseases and lack of applAed research on resistant varieties,
the production of groundnuts declineo and cashewnuts has now partially
replaced groundnuts as the major staple in the rural diet.
C. Pricing System
3.01      Producer and Factory-gate Prices.  These prices are fixed annually
by the National Commission for Salaries and Prices (CNSP) and are published
by the Ministry of Agriculture a few months before the collection of nuts
starts.   Until  recently,  nominal producer and factory prices  remained
relatively unchanged for a long period of time. Producer prices were raised
gradually from 3.5 MT/kg in 1977/78 to 10 MT/kg in 1986/87.  During this
period, real prices for nuts declined drastically and in 1983 farmers nearly
ceased to collect and sell the nuts.  To promote marketing of cashewnuts,
the Government under its Economic Recovery Program raised producer prices to
105 MT/kg in 1987, to 165 MT/kg in 1988 and to 200 MT/kg in 1989. Farmers
reacted promptly and the supply of nuts is now again reaching levels similar
to those obtained before the crisis started in 1983. However, even at the
present level of 200 MT/kg (0.12 USD/kg), the farm-gate price is low in
comparison with procurement prices paid in India (0.80 USD/kg) and Brazil
(0.45 USD/kg).
3.02      Factory-gate prices are differentiated according to the quality
of procured nuts (para 4.02). Price differentials between the two categories
of nuts -- Type I with less than 20 percent of impurities and defective nuts,
and Type II with more than 20 but maximum 30 percent of impurities -- have
always been rather small.  In the past they have never accounted for more
than 82 of the procurement price of Type I nuts. A larger differential might
induce suppliers to deliver better graded raw material.
3.03      The marketing margin between farm-gate and factory-gate prices is
also fixed. This margin is determined on the basis of estimated transport
costs -- high because of the poor state of rural roads -- and a reasonable
traders profit. The marketing margin in terms of percentage of the factory-
gate price has remained stable in the past and is at present somewhat less
than 30 percent.
3.04      Factories have to cover their costs and make a profit from the
margin that exists between the procurement price which is fixed and the world
market price which ss determined by free market forces of supply (mainly
India and Brazil) and demand (USA and Western Europe). Trade with the USSR
and other centrally planned countries does not affect world market prices



- 67 -
Annex 3
Page 7
directly as this trade is based on bilateral agreements with no hard currency
earnings involved.   Due to its unduly high processing cost, Mozambique's
cashew industry is economically marginal and can sustain itself only in
periods of relatively high world market prices. Although prices on the world
market have fluctuated significantly in the past, they maintained themselves
at a conveniently high level between 6 and 7 USD per kg (CIF Europe, Wholes
320) except for 1983 when the price dropped to 4.3 USD per kg. Prices stayed
at a high level because of the longlasting gap in supply caused by the abrupt
dropout of Mozambique and Tanzania as major producers and exporters in the
late 1970s. Cashew is a slow maturing perennial crop and the gap could not
be filled immediately. It is now, however, gradually being bridged by Brazil
and India where new plantings are coming into production.  With a rather
inelastic demand, world market prices for cashew may well come down when
supplies are further increasing. The medium-term outlook for cashew world
market prices may thus be less favorable than generally expected. It is for
this reason that the Government attaches highest priority to the
rehabilitation of its uneconomic processing industry which at present reduces
its export earnings.
3.05      The Government realizes that a better balanced and incentive
oriented pricing system which adjusts itself to price developments on the
world market, is of overriding importance for the success of its efforts to
rehabilitate and develop the cashew economy. The Secretariat of State for
Cashew is responsible for the monitoring of cashew price developments on both
the domestic and world markets as well as for the formulation of an effective
internal pricing system and price recommendations. The Secretariat, however,
lacks the expertise to do so and urgently needs strengthening in this
respect.
D. Cashewnut Processing
4.01      General.  Until 1950, the entire cashewnut crop of Mozambique was
exported in the form of raw nuts to India, where they were processed and re-
exported as kernels. The first cashewnut processing factory was established
by the Portuguese in 1950 and by 1973 there were fourteen cashewnut
processing factories operating in the country.   Unlike in India where
processing is done manually, the Mozambican factories adopted the system of
mechanized processing. At Independence exports of raw nuts were completely
stopped in order to benefit from the additional foreign exchange generated
by cashewnut processing.
4.02      Processing Capacity.  The total rated capacity of the fourteen
processing plants is estimated at 147,000 tons, but this capacity has never
been reached since Independence.   On the contrary, sharp declines in the
production and supply of raw nuts led to the closure of six factories and
caused a costly under-utilization of the installed capacity of the remaining
eight factories that continued working. The processing capacity is unevenly
distributed over the national territory in relation to cashewnut growing
areas   Relatively much of the capacity is concentrated in the South of the
country which has less favorable growing conditions.   Historically this
disequilibrium developed because technical services and manpower were more



- 68 -
Annex 3
Page 8
readily available in the South. With the decline of raw material production,
this situation led to considerable nut shipments from North to South in an
effort to keep the soathern factories utilized.
4.03      Nut Grading.  The purpose of cashewnut processing is to extract a
maximum number of whole white kernels from raw nuts and minimize the number
of broken and scorched pieces. An important by-product is cashewnut shell
liquid (CNSL) which is used in the production of paints. Cashewnuts contain
from 20 to 302 of cashew kernels, but Mozambican factories have been able to
extract only between 18 and 21Z. One of the main reasons for this low kernel
output has been the lack of grading of raw nuts at the time of procurement.
The practice of nut grading had been given up when supplies were found to be
insufficient to cater to the needs of the factories. This resulted in the
receipt and processing of immature and defective nuts, and has in the past
lowered processing results. The present system of differentiated factory-
gate prices:   for 1988/89 240 MT/kg for consignments with less than 20Z
impurities and defective nuts (nuality I) and 220 MT/kg for consignments with
more than 20Z defective nuts (quality II) - the situation has improved
somewhat but much depends on the effectiveness with which grades are being
tested  at  the  factory  site.    Simple  cutting  or  flotation  tests  of
representative, random samples, are universally accepted as a reliable basis
for raw nut quality grading.
4.04      Processing of cashewnuts can be divided into five different stages:
(a)   storage of raw nuts up to three/four months after harvesting;  (b)
calibration and conditioning of the nuts; c) roasting and shelling of the
nuts;d) drying and peeling of the kernels; and e) grading and packing of
the kernels.
4.05      Calibration.  Raw nuts have to be segregated according to their
sizes, since the time, temperature etc, required for roasting and shelling
vary according to their size. Nuts are usually calibrated into large, medium
and small by means of a rotating drum which, along its length and at
different levels, has holes of three different sizes.  As the nuts pass
through the drum, they fall down in the three different size heaps. Over
time the holes wear out and unless the drum is repaired or replaced in time,
the very purpose of calibration is defeated, since nuts of all sizes will get
mixed up. Differently sized nuts that receive the same treatment in roasting
and shelling, will result in a higher percentage of broken kernels. Since
the economy of cashew processing basically hinges on maximum yields of white
wholes, the calibrating operation has a great effect on output.
4.06      Conditionint.  The moisture content of raw nuts determines the
results of roasting and subsequent shelling.  Hence, before the nuts are
roasted, the humidity of the nut has to be adjusted by adding water. This
operation which is known as conditioning has a twofold objective;  (a) to
ensure a maximum output of cashewnut shell liquid; and (b) to regulate the
temperature of the kernel in order to avoid its discoloration. The optimum
percentage of humidity in the nut is to be maintained, a higher percentage
resulting in blue kernels and a lower percentage in broken kernels.  The
conditioning has to be done in such a way that the humidity is uniformly



- 69 -
Annex 3
Page 9
distributed in the nut and it is thus always better to condition the nuts
slowly over a longer period of time.
4.07      Roasting.  The nuts pass through a bath of hot cashew shell oil
during the toasting stage. When the moisture in the shell pores vaporizes,
the oil sacs open up and release the oil from the shell. At the same time,
heating of the nut makes the shell brittle and facilitates its removal by
cutting or applying impact pressure. Roasting is probably the most important
operation of the whole process and has a direct bearing on the output in
terms of percentage of wholes, color of kernels, etc.  The temperature at
which the roasting is done and the time during which the nuts are allowed to
be in contact with the hot oil are of paramount importance. Both temperature
and roasting time have to be adjusted to the size of the nuts and the
condition in which they enter the roasting conveyors. In the case of large
nuts  conveyor  speed  should  be  lowered  and  temperature  raised.    The
temperature of the roasting bath has to be maintained between 160 to 190
degrees C.  Roasting time has to be adjusted according to experience and
depends on the basic qualities of the nut such as shell thickness and size.
However, an average conveyor speed varying from 800 to 1,000 kg/hr appears
advisable. The oil on the surface of the nut is removed by centifrugation.
The shell and kerrdls are separated either by cyclonic separation or
vibrators.
4.08      ShellinR.   In mechanized cashew processing the two most common
methods are: the Oltremare and the Sturtevant process, both named after the
companies that supply the shelling equipment. Though many other mechanical
processes have been tried out for cashew processing, only the above two
methods have stood the test of time. Of the 14 cashew factories, two (Xai-
Xai and Monapo) use the blade-cutting process; the twelve others use the
impact process which adjusts itself easier to nut sizes.  The roasting of
nuts is common in both processes, and the main difference lies in the
shelling of the roasted nuts; i.e. the opening up of the nut shell and the
taking out of the kernel.   In the  "blade-cutting" process  (Oltremare)
shelling is done by moving the nuts through two vertically mounted blades,
which cut the shell open; in the "impact-shelling" process (Sturtevant) the
nuts are opened in high speed impact shellers. Cashewnuts not being uniform
in size and shape, and having different shell thicknesses, cause in both
processes a larger number of broken kernels than in India where shelling is
done manually.
4.09      In shelling, the speed of rotation also has to be adjusted to the
size of the nut.   At higher speed, smaller nuts will yield more broken
kernels. In most factories the roasted kernels are directly sent to the
shelling machines. Experience has shown, however, that breakage of kernels
increases when hot nuts are immediately shelled.   Prot .ding a time lag
between roasting and shelling or forcing cool air through the roasted kernels
should be considered. This will reduce the breakage of kernels.
4.10      Drying.  The shelled kernels are dried in an oven.  The duration
and temperature of drying, and ensurance that all kernels are unliformly dried
will  reduce  the percentage of scorched kernels.   The abnormally high
percentage of scorched kernels obtained in Mozambican factories is obviously



- 70 -
Annex 3
Page 10
due to improper control of the drying process.   This has to be suitably
rectified by detailed study and subsequent adjustment.
4.11      Peeling.   Peeling can be done either manually or mechanically.
The simplest mechanical way is that of having two discs with soft rubber
padding rotating in opposite directions with the kernels being subjected to
abrasion until the peel is removed. Another method uses high velocity air
jets which move the kernels around in a rocket type of circulating cylinder.
Both mechanical peeling methods cause a high incidence of kernel breakage.
4.12      Gradina.  At the final stage of processing the kernels are graded
according to internationally accepted grades by segregating white kernels
from brown ones, and wholes from broken pieces.   Grading is done mostly
manually. But in a few cases, an electronic separator is used. In this case
an additional manual grader is often needed.
4.13      Packing.   Graded kernels are packed in C02 filled, four gallon
(11.4 kg) tins. Two tins of 11.4 kg each are packed in a carton (22.8 kg or
50 lbs) and exported.
4.14      Processing results.  From the processing procedure described above
it is clear that at every stage, operational care and control is needed to
ensure better results.   Failure at any one point will result in a higher
percentage of broken and scorched kernels and this reduces the profitability
of the factory.  Lack of control can be either due to the use of inefficient
equipment or lack of experience on the part of the operators. Both aspects
have to be examined and rectified before better economic results can be
achieved. A comparative study of the results achieved in Mozambique and in
India, where raw nuts imported from Mozambique were processed gives an idea
about the scope for improvement.   In mechanical processing,  the highest
percentage yield of wholes ever obtained has been 55Z, but yields of manual
processing as applied in India have been about 84Z. Results as high as in
India cannot be obtained, but the aim. should be to achieve the maximum
possible level in mechanical processing and reduce the percentage of scorched
kernels to minimum levels as obtainable in any processing method. If these
two objectives are achieved the economic results of the cashew industry in
Mozambique will improve considerably.
E. Export Trade System
5.01      General.  In the colonial era, import/export trade was carried out
by specialized private trading companies.   Most of the agents of these
companies left at Independence, leaving the country desperately short of
people with experience  in foreign trade.   To fill the gap,  the state
enterprise ENACOMO was established shortly after Independence. Initially,
ENACOMO had a total monopoly in the carrying out of all external trade
operations.   Over time, however, ENACOMO withdrew from the import trade,
which was taken over by other specialized state agencies.  More recently,
there has also been a degree of decentralization in the export trade. Since
1984 the two private cashew processi..- :ompanies -- Monapo and Inducaju --



- 71 -
Annex 3
Page 11
and since 1986 also the state enterprise Caju de Mocambique (CM), have been
authorized to handle their own exports, subject to approval of contract
prices by the Ministry of Commerce.  At present, CM handles more than 85
percent of the country's exports of cashew kernels (1988:  5,813 thousand
tons with a fob export value of USD 22.8 million). It is also the country's
only exporter of Cashewnut Shell Liquid (1988: 5,800 tons with a fob value
of USD 337,000). The five year average (1983-88) of local production stands
at 35,000 tons, compared with 277,000 tons averaged by all other world
producers.   Nevertheless, world production is increasing, reached 376,000
tons in 1988189 and is forecasted to reach 389,000 tons in 1989/90.
5.02      Trade Partners and Agreements.  The US is by far the most important
buyer of cashewnuts from Mozambique, followed by the USSR, the German
Democratic Republic, and West Germany. Other regular importers are Holland,
the UR, and Bulgaria.  US purchasers usually prefer cif agreements, while
socialist countries use fob prices in the bilateral trade arrangements.
Trade agreements with European and Asian countries are either in terms of cif
or fob depending on tha preference of the purchaser.   In general,  cif
agreements are more advantageous to the country as they allow the retention
of more foreign exchange and the use of the national sea freight agency
MOCARGO.  In the past, CM has frequently obtained lower prices for cashew
than those received by other exporting countries. CM's exports to its main
market, the US, were handled through one agent. However, lately it appointed
three additional agents in the US and is considering the appointment of a few
others in some European countries.
5.03      Foreign Exchange Retention Scheme (FERS).  This scheme was set up
in 1984, allowing export enterprises to retain a portion of their foreign
exchange earnings to import necessary inputs for production.   The CM has
benefitted from this scheme for the imports of factory equipment, spare parts
and fuel but also for the imports of consumer goods.   The officially
authorized percentage of retention of foreign exchange earnings refers only
to trade with hard-currency countries.  It decreased from 45X in 1985 to 322
in 1988.  Increasing exports to socialist countries reduces the amount of
foreign exchange to be used under the FERS. Imports under FERS varied from
year to year and amounted to about USD 5.8 million or 33.4% of the total
export earnings in 1988. About 75% of the imports under the FERS are basic
consumer goods and debt servicing of loano obtained from international
sources to finance these  imports.   Through the FERS the earlier acute
shortage of foreign exchange needed to import consumer goods and to keep
export production going has been partially overcome, but scarce foreign
exchange continues to be a major constraint.



- 73 -
Annex 4
Page 1
MOZAMBIQUE
AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. The Financial Sector
1.01      General. Mozambique's financial sector currently consists of three
banks, an agricultural credit fund, and one insurance company. The present
financial system came into being after Mozambique gained Independence in
1975, with the restructuring of the banking system in 1978. Of the three
banks, one, Banco de Mocambique (BM), acts both as the Central Bank and a
leading commercial bank. A second fully state-owned bank is Banco Popular
de Desenvolvimento  (BPD).   The third bank  - Banco Standard Totta de
Hocambique  (BSTM)  -  is  a  largely  foreign-owned  private  bank.    The
agricultural credit fund - Caixa de Credito Agrario e de Desenvolvimento
Rural (CCADR) was established by Government in 1988, is administered by BPD
and initiated lending operations in mid-1988.
1.02      Over the period 1980-86 the banking system acted as a passive
conduit for financing the production plans of the economy. A rapid expansion
of domestic credit occurred so that while GDP fell in real terms by 16X over
th..s period, domestic credit expanded by 2402, and serious arrears were built
up amounting to over 50S of lending by 1986. Interest rates on lending and
borrowing were not used for rationing of credit and were negative in real
terms. Bank deposits were largely non interest-bearing demand deposits. The
situation was not conducive to mobilization of real savings and the non-
availability of foreign exchange for import of investment goods constrained
investment,  so  that  liquid  reserves  were  accumulated.    Lending was
concentrated in the commercial department of the BM, partly financed by
deposits from the other banks; this was done particularly at the expense of
the private sector. The dual role of BM was not conducive to the development
of its regulatory and policy making responsibilities. Commercial banks were
able to maintain financial stability because of the high levels of liquidity;
book earnings were also positive because of high yield margins over the
average cost of deposited funds (and also possibly because of accrued
interest).
1.03      The Strategy for Financial Sector Reform.  The Government, since
1987, has adopted a series of relatively radical measures for the banking
sector under its Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP), with the objective
of restoring capability for efficient mobilization of savings and allocation
of investment. The pace of change implies a high level of commitment. The
measures taken have been included in agreements between the Government, IDA,
and the IMF.  The task that the Government has embarked on since 1987 is
complex and lengthy, requiring that the financial sector undergo a transition
from a system whose main purpose was the administrative allocation of public
funds according to the requirements of the central plan, to one in which
private savings can be effectively mobilized and channelled to economic
investment outlets via a market determined price (interest rate) system, and
which can be monitored and regulated through monetary instruments by the
central bank.  Under the previous system the main instrument of monetary
control was the annual credit plan, which complemented the annual production
plans; the interest rate was effectively redundant and monetary and regulator
control of the banks was impracticable.   In order to rehabilitate the
financial sector, the reform process has had to address the following basic



- 74 -
Annex 4
Page 2
areas:   (a) interest rates;  (b) institutional development;  (c) financial
restructuring of the banks; and (d) establishment of performance guidelines.
The combined effect of reforms in all these areas would be to raise domestic
savings and ration credit via the price system to more profitable outlets,
allow necessary specialization of the functions of the central bank, and
permit a fresh start to be made in the commercial banking system.
1.04      The ERP, reflected in the Government's Policy Framework Paper, has
initially addressed (a) and (b) above.  Under the program agreed with the
IMF, nominal interest rates have been increased in successive steps toward
positive real levels as the rate of price inflation declines, with a target
of achieving positive real rates in 1990. The interaction between the fiscal
and monetary policy has been addressed by setting targets (ceilings) f3r the
fiscal deficit in combination with bank credit ceilings, whereby government
financing by the banking system has been significantly reduced in real terms;
in addition, banking system financing of operating losses of enterprises has
been curtailed and a portion of doubtful loans transferred from the banking
system to the Ministry of Finance.  These measures have in turn permitted
progress under (c) above, in terms of restructuring of the balance sheets of
the commercial banks by the removal of a portion of nonperforming assets.
In the institutional area, the complex task of separating the Bank of
Mozambique (BM) into its central and commercial functions has been initiated.
This separation is needed to restore the central bank's regulatory and
monetary control functions, and its role as financier of the central
government.    In  addition,  some  initial  progress  has  been  made  on
diversification of instruments of government finance and prudential
regulatory controls.
1.05      The next stages of the rehabilitation of the financial system will
require continued progress oti interest rate reform and on institution
building and reorganization. The financial restructuring area is relatively
less advanced, and the reintroduction of an effective regulatory system for
the commercial banks will to some extent require inter alia the prior
achievement of progress in restructuring and the final clearance of lending
arrears, which, up to now, has been confined to those of BM (paras 1.09 and
1.12).   The regulatory powers of the BM have not been utilized because
reserve requirements have not been effective due to excess rediscount
facility 1/. In addition, regulations concerning financial performance and
prudent lending have not been effective because of the financing of
enterprise deficits during the period of central planning. The pace at which
improvements can be made in these areas depends to a large extent on the
progress of institutional reform in terms both of organization (of the BM),
and in terms of capacity (skilled manpower) of all the banks. In particular,
manpower constraints in the commercial banks in the area of accounting,
financial management and credit analysis will take time to resolve, as well
as skill shortages in central banking functions.   The Small and Medium
Enterprise Development Project, which was negotiated in October 1989,
provides technical assistance and conditionality related to the next stages
of the financial sector rehabilitation.
1.06      Structure of Interest Rates.  The current structure of both lending
and deposit rates of interest in Mozambique is shown in the Attachment to the
Annex. Rates in effect from 1981 to 1986 were very low in nominal terms,
1/ These powers are codified under the Organic Law, decree 2/75.



- 75 -
Annex 4
Page 3
ranging from 0 to 6Z for deposits, and 3 to 10? for lending, and negative in
real terms.  The structure of interest rates was revised with effect from
January 1987 according to Mozambique's agreements with the IMF for a
Structural Adjustment Facility (SAP), with rates ranging from 3Z on demand
deposits and 12? to 20? on time deposits, and 54 different lending rates
ranging from 12? to 35?. Provision was also made for a rediscount rate of
10X, applicable on amounts up to 6? of demand deposits, and rising to 12? on
amounts up to an additional 62 of demand deposits. A revision of lending
rates came into effect in January 1989, with the number of rates reduced to
16, ranging from 14Z to 34?, and the range contracted from 182 - 35Z to 22? -
34?, with rates for most categories increasing by 42 - 6Z. With effect from
September 1, 1989 the interest rate structure was further revised, resulting
in an increase of the Central Bank basic discount rate from 10? to 12? and
of lending rates by an additional 12 to 2? p.a.   Credit provided from
resources of the CCADR bears preferential interest rates ranging from 3? to
6? p.a.
1.07      The higher interest rate structure will have a positive impact,
with credit demand shifting to borrowers that have better prospects in the
current business environment. Under the terms of Mozambique's agreement with
the IMF, interest rates should continue to be reviewed and revised
progressively. Annual reviews of lending interest rates and their structure
would also take place with IDA.
1.08      Banking System Arrears.   Despite the indications of positive
progress, the banking system still faces a serious arrears problem which has
arisen from several sources.   A portion of the arrears dates back to
independence, when many Portuguese firm owners left the country; a number of
these firms were subsequently intervened by the Government. The bulk of the
arrears of the private bank, BSTM, date from this period. The largest share
of arrears, however, has stemmed from lending, largely to state enterprises
and intervened firms, by the banks (mainly BM and BPD) at the Government's
request. Much of this lending was to cover operating deficits (up to 1986
inclusive) considered to be due to price controls and the difficult economic
environment facing the enterprises. Since 1987, the Government has covered
such deficits through direct fiscal subsidy and has reduced their level
substantially; in 1987, such subsidies totalled MT 9.1 billion, most of which
went to the agricultural sector, with the total declining to MT. 6.8 billion
in 1988.
1.09      The consolidation of the bad loans of public enterprises and their
transfer from the banking sector to the Government has been under negotiation
since 1986. Government has recognized MT 40.6 billion of BM's portfolio as
bad loans of the public enterprises, as of the end of 1987. Of these, about
MT 10.0 billion have been rescheduled and a portion of the balance has
already been reimbursed to BM by the Government.  The two other banks are
conducting similar negotiations with Government; this will be especially
significant for BPD which has accumulated large arrears from the state farm
sector and it is estimated that Government would assume responsibility for
about MT 20.0 billion o.: BPD's portfolio.
1.10      In October 1989, during negotiations of the IDA Credit for the
Small and Medium Enterprise Development Project, agreements were reached on
the actions to be taken by the Government leading to: (a) the separation of
BM's central and commercial Bank functions; (b) the settlement of lending
arrears of the commercial banks including BM; (c) the rehabilitation of the



- 76 -
Annex 4
Page 4
banking system and extension of competition within the banking sector; and
(d) the strengthening of the accounting capabilities of the PFIs.
Banco de Mocambioue (BM).
1.11      Organization.  BM is by far the largest of the three banks, and
the one with the broadest mandate. It was created in 1975 to take over the
central banking role previously played by Portugal's Banco Nacional
Ultramarino, and, in 1978, absorbed the Mozambican operations of four
Portguguese-owned banks.  BM has 10 provincial head offices (filiais), 17
district branches (agencias) and 13 deposit offices (delegacoes). BM's Board
of Directors is entirely internally constituted, comprising the Governor and
the eight department General Managers (Administradores).
1.12      Lending Share.  As of December 1988, total institutional credit
to the economy from domestic resources amounted to MT 213.7 billion (USD
330.0 million) of which BM provided about 73Z. More than MT 156 billion of
BM's outstanding balance of loans at end-1988 was to the agricultural sector,
followed by 13? of its outstanding balance to industry, and 12? each to
transport and communications and to domestic trade. The bulk of BM's loan
portfolio consisted of short-term credits and only 12? of the portfolio
financed investments.   By June, 1989 BM's share in total credit slightly
decreased to 69?; while the relative share of agriculture declined to 34X
(from 421 at end-1988), industry's share rose to 232 followed by domestic
trade and transport and communications with 162 each. The share of longer-
term credits for investments increased from 12? at end-1988 to 15.52 by June
1989.
1.13      LendinR Arrears.  As mentioned in para 1.09, the Government has
agreed to take over responsibility for about MT 40.0 billion in BM loans to
state and intervened enterprises which are in arrears and unlikely to be
collectible. This amount represents only the principal in arrears, since BM
does not accrue interest on doubtful loans. Of the MT 40.0 billion that the
Government has agreed to assume, Mt 8.8 billion has been paid (out of
countervalue payments from firms receiving foreign exchange under the first
two IDA rehabilitation operations), while another Mt 10.0 billion has been
rescheduled. As a result, the proportion of these arrears to BM's overall
portfolio is declining quite rapidly, dropping to 15? by December 1988 from
342 in December 1987 and about 41? in December '986. Other arrears deemed
reprogrammable have  declined  from 422 of the portfolio  to 21?, while
rescheduled amounts now constitute 25? of portfolio, and doubtful debts
remain fairly steady at about 6?.  In the meantime, the healthy portfolio
has increased from 13? to 332, or to 58? if rescheduled amounts are included.
Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento (BPD).
1.14      General.   BPD was formed in 1977, integrating the old Banco de
Fomento Nacional, Instituto de Credito de Mocambique, and Montepio de
Mocambique.   It has traditionally had two main roles:   the financing of
agriculture  and,  by  extension,  the  rural  sector,and  domestic  savings
mobilization. However, it is also empowered under its charter to invest in
equity, new ventures, and take up commercial paper.  This latter role has
not been fulfilled, but recently a share capital participation department
was set up for that purpose. BPD also holds equity in a few enterprises,
notably textiles, inherited from nationalized banks.



- 77 -
Annex 4
Page 5
1.15       Organization.  BPD is 1002 state-owned and, similar to BM, its
Board of Directors is comprised of its Managing Director and four General
Managers (Administradores) each of whom is in charge of a number of
departmerts of the bank.  It has by far the largest branch network in the
country, with 10 provincial offices (filial), 25 district branches (agencia),
49 deposit offices (delegacao) and 54 savings collection posts (posto de
captacao de poupanca).   BPD has a total staff of about 3,000 with 420
employed in its head office in Maputo.   Since 1987 BPD management has
considerably strengthened its staff training activities, focussing in
particular on training of credit analysts and is gradually introducing
computerization in head office departments and some of the larger branches.
1.16      Liquidity.  BPD's balance sheet as of December 31, 1988
(Attachment 2) shows consid2rable excess liquidity, largely because its
savings mobilization role is combined with the lack of sufficient short-term
lending opportunities.  Liquid assets were about 36X of total assets and
BPD's total loan portfolio was equivalent to 55Z of demand and term deposits,
or 382 when loans to Government and the CCADR are excluded.   At end-
December, 1988, demand deposits reached MT 102.0 billion, of which MT 45.0
billion were deposits by the State, MT 15.4 billion were deposits by other
banks, MT 5.5 billion by state enterprises and MT 4.1 billion by private
enterprises. Deposits by the population amounted to MT 28.6 billion. While
demand deposits increased by 802 between December 1987 and 1988, from MT 56.7
billion to MT 102.0 billion, term deposits increased by only 13Z, from MT 5.3
billion in 1987 to MT 6.9 billion in 1988.  This indicates that the low
interest rates on term deposits were not conducive to the mobilization of
savings.
1.17       Loan Portfolio.  At the end of December, 1988 the outstanding
balance of loans (including arrears) amounted to MT 41.4 billion (MT 27.3
billion at December 1987).   About MT 31.5 billion of the loan portfolio
consisted of short-term working capital credits and 24? of this portfolio
financed medium-and long_trm loans for investments.   About 722 of total
loans were to the agricultural sector, 202 to industry (primarily for
agroindustries), and the remaining balance financed other sectors of the
economy including transportation, tourism and construction.  Seveaty four
percent of BPD*s loan portfolio comprised loans to state enterprises, and
the balance was owed by private enterprises, cooperatives, and small family
farms.
1.18      The data presented in the preceding paragraph reflects the status
of BPD's loan portfolio at the end of 1988, and is the result of lending
operations in the past which were almost entirely directed to state
enterprises engaged primarily in agricultural production. However,
lending by BPD to the private sector started to gain momentum in 1988 and an
analysis of current BPD lending activities shows a significant change in the
composition of the portfolio resulting from increasing lending to the private
sector for investments as well as for working capital.  During 1988 loan
disbursements by BPD amounted to MT 23.7 billion, of which 722 were for
short-term working capital credits and 282 financed investments.   State
enterprises received 65Z of total loan disbursements.   During the period
January to July 1989 loan disbursements amounted to XT 19.1 billion.
The share of short-term credits declined to 532 while investment financing
increased to 472 of disbursements. Lending to state enterprises dropped to
372 of total disbursements during the period under review, compared to 652
during 1988.



- 78 -
Annex 4
Page 6
1.19      Arrears.   As already mentioned in para 1.08, BPD faces severe
arrears problems.  Available data show that at the end of December 1988,
arrears amounted to MT 26.6 million or 65X or BPD's total loan portfolio as
of that date, and state enterprises accounted for about 922 of arrears. BPD
is negotiating with Government to resolve the problem of bad loans and to
determine the amount to be reimbursed by the Government. Recent data also
indicate that recovery on current lending is improving.   BPD is in the
process of introducing better loan recovery monitoring and follow-up
procedures which would assist it in its loan collection efforts.
Caixa de Credito Agrario e de Desenvolvimento Rural (CCADR)
1.20       The CCADR, in operation since May 1988 and administered by BPD,
was created by Government to provide credit at preferential terms and at
subsidized interest rates (currently 32 - 62 p.a.) to stimulate investments
in the rural sector.  Its activities are financed from budgetary alloca-
tions by Government and the local counterpart funds of some donor-financed
projects. Although state enterprises are eligible to borrow from the CCADR,
the credit norms  for its operations  emphasize   lending to veterans,
repatriated migrant workers, cooperatives and family producers, producers of
cereals and those affected by natural calamities. Up to June 1989, the CCADR
has accumulated a loan portfolio of MT 20.0 billion, consisting mainly (90Z)
of medium and long-term loans for investments. However, lending was directed
primarily to state enterprises which absorbed 702 of CCADR resources.
B. Credit to Agriculture
1.21           At end-December  1988,  total  institutional  credit  to the
agricultural sector amounted to MT 90.6 billion (USD 140.0 million),
equivalent to 4.2 of the total credit to the economy, and grew to MT 112.7
billion by June 30, 1989. The respective shares of the banking system and
CCADR are shown in the following table:
TABLE 1. Credit to the Agriculture Sector
December 31, 1988            June 30, 1989
Institution             MT Billion       2           MT Billion    2
BM                     58.6          65            63.0        56
BPD                    26.8          30            32.3        29
BSTM                    0.7          --             1.0         1
CCADR                   4.5           5            16.4        14
TOTAL                 90.6         100           112.7       100
1.22      BM  traditionally  finances  the  production  and  marketing  of
industrial and export crops, and the bulk of its agricultural loan portfolio
consists of short-term credits for working capital (97.4Z of portfolio).
Outstanding loan balances, by commodity, as of December 31, 1988 were as
follows:



- 79 -
Annez 4
Page 7
TABLE 2. Agricultural Loan Portfolio of BM
December 31, 1988
Commodity                         MT Billion
Sugar                                 29.5
Tea                                    7.2
Cotton/Sisal                          13.7
Cashew                                 3.1
Copra                                  3.8
Others                                 1.3
TOTAL                                58.6
1.23      State-owned and intervened enterprises accounted for 84Z of BM's
agricultural loan portfolio (35Z and 492 respectively) and the remaining
balance of 162 was the share of the private sector.
1.24      BPD's  agricultural  loan  portfolio  (including  agroindustries)
amounted to MT 32.8 billion at end-December 1988 and MT 35.3 billion at end-
June 1989. Medium and long-term investment loans accounted for 192 of the
portfolio in December 1988 and for 242 in June 1989. The share of state
enterprises in the agricultural loan portfolio decreased from 882 to 822
during the period under review, partly as a result of BPD's increased lending
to the private sector and partly due to the growing involvement of the CCADR
in the financing of state farms (para 1.20)
1.25      As shown in Table 1, lending to agriculture by CCADR amounted to
MT 16.4 billion at the end of June 1989 (832 of total loan portfolio). State
enterprises accounted for about 752 of the outstanding agricultural loans.



Annex 4
- 80 -                       Attachment 1
Page 1
Ministry of Finance and Bank of Mozambique
ORDM
In accordance with No. 5 of Resolution 11/80 of December 31
regarding the credit and interest policy, the Minister of Finance and the
Governor of the Bank of Mozambique hereby determine as follows:
1.          New annual interest rates are hereby set for:
Term Deposijts
90 days                 18X
91 to 180 days          19X
181 to 365 days         201
1 to 2 years            221
More than 2 years       241
Interest rates for demand deposits shall remain unchanged at 3X.
2.          The rates now set shall apply both to term deposits made on or
after March 1, 1990 and those existing on that date whose conditions shall be
deemed to have been changed in accordance with and for the purposes of this
Order, provided that the depositor has not expressly declared his objection.
3.          Any uncertainties arising in the interpretation and application of
this Order shall be resolved by joint order of the Minister of Finance and the
Govurnor of the Bank of Mozambique.
4.          This Order shall enter into force on March 1, 1990.
For publication.
Maputo, February 22, 1990.



- 81 -                        Annex 4
Attachment I
Page 2
In accordance with No. 5 of Resolution 11/80 of December 31 on the
credit and interest policy, the Minister of Finance, Abdul Magid Osman, and
the Governor of the Bank of Mozambique, Eneas da Concei;ao Comiche, hereby
determine as follows:
1.          The following interest rates are hereby set for credit operations.
I.          Central Bank Discount Rate .14X
Percentage limits on utilization (X of demand deposits)
(a) Discount: limit of up to 61
Term up to eight weeks
(b) Discount increase of up to 61
Term up to two weeks
(In this case the rate shall be raised by 21.)
II.         Level 1
Applicable to the fol'owing sectors:
-     Agriculture, stockraising and forestry
-     Agricultural marketing
-     Agricultural consumer and other cooperatives
-     Electricity, gas, steam and water
-     Food industry
(in X)
Working Capital                       Capital Expenditures
Up to 90    Up to 180    Up to 365       Up to 2      Up to 3      More than
days         days          days         years        years        3 years
17          17.5           18is              Single rate of 22
III.            l .12
(The previous rates remain in force.)
Applicable to the following sectors:
Processing industries (light and heavy)
-     Extractive industries
-     Constructizi, public works and housing
-     Exports
-     Fishing
-     Transportation, rail, port and other public passenger and freight
modes (companies and associations):



- 82 -                        Annex 4
-8-Attachment 1
Page 3
Working Capital                      Capital Expenditures
Up to 90    Up to 180    Up to 365      Up to 2      Up to 3    More than
days         days         days         years        years        3 years
20           22           24           25           26           27
IV. ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~     _
IV,         Level 3
(The previous rates remain in force.)
Applicable to the following sectors:
-    Wholesale and resale trade
-    Restaurants, hotels, tourism and related sectors
-     Freight and passenger transportation (one-man operations)
-     Other activities not included in levels 1 and 2 and single persons
(in X)
Working Capital                      Capital Expenditures
Up to 90    Up to 180    Up to 365      Up to 2      Up to 3    More than
days         days         days         years        years        3 years
28           30           32           33           34           35
1.          Capital expenditures in construction and freight transportation
made by individuals in the trade and tourism and housing sectors are eligible
for level-2 interest rates.
2.          Surp.us inventory in trade and industry of basic consumer goods
may be eligible, on a temporary basis, for credit support at the rate set for
level 2.
The Bank of Mozambique shall determine, and announce to the
public, those goods and products to be financed under such conditions and the
terms of the loans.
3.          The rates may also apply to credit in effect on the date that this
Order enters into force, when the respective contracts provide for a change in
interest rate in the event another limit is set by law.
4.          Any uncertainties arising in the interpretation and application of
this Order shall be resolved by joint order of the Minister of Finance and the
Governor of the Bank of Mozambique.
5.          This Order shall enter into force on March 1, 1990.
Maputo, February 22, 1990
Governor, Bank of Mozambique,                    Minister of Finance,
Eneas da Conceigao Comiche                       Abdul Magid Osman



Nozambigue
Banco Popular de Desenvolvlmento (BPD)
Balance Sheet - December 31. 1988
*__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (Meticais)
___ ~~~ ~ ,                                            _..  .me
I0    Sin  _ ogm           u..a.m                                                        -  Ps  .g               ?.a.
o~~~~~~ _
Sam~~~ ~ ~  .                                                    _                     _              _                __m
jISa..ab&ucmim. ..............
t   e  X_ _sns _1.S   .............  .                 ...... a_ 2_           ,         *.t............
*6 Imine fs ....I1,
._   _..............                                                                            -.......
_e8 O.v mem  _tseeoeUw.fww                                 .                                   .........Mt
-am    mgp.side                                                       .m.       -                                                               I  tMAM)
h USS         .,S~   .. 3.SS.In..                          _.......... o.              .... i.  _s.
. ............ .AS                                                     u.m...
*~ ~- Vin u u w
MI-                                                                   F
Sgq* *s,-          -            *J1m            S.B. 
Sin---- .                 *    i.m.s           in.a.                               azse inni
-PUaP -..                                                                       _ ___
,m   wa&un .u~w                                                                                                  su.s..sm.o
" * o" ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ." "...........
. s.E .a..e *._.u.s 11.00.8t.4t....lPU9DMS
_ S ...................  I._ 8               .
~~~~~~~~~~~mt.. _L"                                                      s_a.Xw * ................. u...a
~ ............ARMS  k.                               &".8.M .Pwa tMOOD.,D
!         -W ...w    ..."                  ...........~~~~~~~~~~~ aiw..   .....................
|    _   ~~~erm  .....                                                                  1b_    ............  .O S
&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WU DOId   OD ..........x.04.1sW ...                      M.n4as Ik       e..........      a..            .1."
j 0o c ................. .rm  ooddn O a".u.ve  ......    ".M.M.1... I                                                                   67a.^t.
c~~~~~~~~~~~~~ass  o mahm, POOMMM ....
*V          omCFMft,i . ........... - ...D
04" ........... ...., ..........



Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento (BPD)
Income Statement
Year Endins December 31, 1988
(MT '000)
(Be contoe)
D I  a I ST OQWMAWa C a a D  I * O                                                         TMhA
Custos de Opera8Me Pa_sives:                        912.140    Jurie de Crudito Concedido:             3.249.292
De Dep6sitos & Ord ............ 300.963                        A o Rsteo ...........   7.975
De Dep6ltoo a Pasrew  ..    .... 611.177                       A Ist.Uonet6rlas ........ 571.383
Custos Cea o Pessoal:                             1.960.766        Ao Sect. I pres. e Partl-
cuares ............... 2.669.934
SalArio Bisico ................ 1.122.79S                  aSesdimatcs de Titulos e               X
Protic1pacbes Finaecelr     ia .........s  77.CD7
Resim.Complementares ...... ..... 330.250                   Prowetos de Serv..Bmofrios  .....         73.864
encargom Sociais ................ 142.502                   Cutros Proveito Bencrior .......          173.447
Cutros Enc*rVos c/o Pe...l.....  5.210                      Proeitos Diverso ................. .171.321
|Fornecimentos de Terceiros ..........              337.130    Gedhoe  Eitreordindrios do Exercicio        2.072
ServiCos de Treiro...                               372.995
Outros Custo .73.968
Doteaoes p/Amortiz    .....s                           .000
Perdam Extrordim6riea do gx*mfcio                    29.503
Resultado do Eaercicio ..............               412.44 a1 .1
TTAL .................23                                    TAL., .........         3.747.02:-



- 85 -
Annex 5
Page 1
MOZAMBIQUE
AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Arrangements for the Line of Credit
A. Participation Agreement
1.        Participation Agreements between BM/Central and the
Participating Financial Institutions (PFI) would, inter alia, specify that
the PFIs should:
(a) designate qualified staff to manage the sub-loans financed by
the proposed project;
(b) perform satisfactory sub-project appraisals and submit appraisal
reports and required related documentation to BM/Central;
(c) ensure that sub-loan funds are used by sub-project beneficiaries
for the purposes intended and that procurement procedures,
acceptable to IDA, are followed;
(d) supervise sub-projects according to established procedures,
maintain adequate records and provide periodic reports on the
status of sub-projects and sub-loans;
(e) bear the lending risk and adhere to terms of lending and
repayment of loans;
(f) provide BM/Central, SEC and IDA with such information as they
may reasonably request; and
(g) provide, from their own resources, short-term credits to cover
incremental working capital requirements of project
beneficiaries.
B. Sub-proiect Selection and Eligibility Criteria
2.        In order to receive financing from the line of credit, analysis
of the following aspects would have to prove satisfactory:
(a) the creditworthiness of the prospective sub-borrower;
(b) the technical, financial, environmental and economic viability
of the proposed investments;
(c) the financial rate of return (FRR) of proposed investment sub-
projects would be not lower than 12 percent;
(d) the investments to be made in cashew processing plants should
result in higher quality end-products and higher yields,
increased production capacity and lower processing costs and
generate increased foreign exchange earnings from exports; and



- 86 -
Annex 5
Page 2
(e) the on-farm investments in cashew plantations and investments in
marketing activities would raise yields and increase production
of cashewnuts, improve cultivation practices and increase the
supply of raw cashewnuts to processing plants.
C. Repayment of Funds Borrowed from the Line of Credit
3.1       PFIs would repay to BM/Central the funds onlent from the line of
credit in accordance with the repayment schedules established for the
individual sub-loans made by PFIs, even if PFIs have not collected the
amounts in question on schedule. PFIs would pay to BM/Central, semi-
annually or annually, interest on the funds/borrowed from the line of
credit equivalent to 70 percent of the amount of interest accrued on sub-
loans financed from the line of credit. The spread for PFIs, equivalent to
302 of interest on subloans reflects the relatively high administrative
costs and the need to ensure adequate coverage of the lending risks borne
by PFF1.
3.2       BM/Central would reimburse to the Government the amounts of
principal and interest as and when collected from PFIs, less a fee of O.5Z
p.a. of the amount of outstanding principal, to cover the administrative
costs of BM/Central. The amount of interest paid to the Government would
cover the commitment and service charges on the IDA credit and provisions
for coverage of the foreign exchange risk.



- 87 -
Annex 6
Page 1
Mozambique
Aaricultural Rehabilitation and Development Proiect
Terms of Reference for
Agricultural Enterprise Restructuring Unit
1. General
1.01      The Government of Mozambique (GOM), with support from the World
Bank Group, is to establish an Agricultural Enterprise Restructuring Unit
(AERU) located in the Ministry of Agriculture to help formulate subsector
policies and strategies, identify and prioritize agricultural enterprises in
need of restructuring and provide, on a case-by-case basis, specialized
technical advice and guidance.
2. Composition
2.01      The  AERU will  be  headed  by  a  local  economist/agricultural
economist, the Unit Head, and will be staffed as followss
International and Local Consultants. The Unit will be assisted by
medium-  and  short-term  expatriate  staff.    Tne  medium-term
expatriate  specialists would  include;   (i)  one  agricultural
economist who will assist the Unit Head in activity planning and
coordination (3 years); (ii) one management expert (2 years); and
(iii) one information systems/accounting specialist (2 years). The
short-term expatriate specialists would include consultants in
rural planning (12 months), agroindustry and training (six months
each), and monitoring and evaluation (3 months). The Unit also
will be supplied for a duration of five years, in addition to the
economist and expatriate agriculturalist of the Sector de Analise
de Unidades Empresariais within DEA, with an agriculturalist and
two general or agricultural economists.
Local Staff. The Unit also will include a local administrative
officerlaccountant, a secretary, and a driver.
3. Responsibilities
3.01      The main task of the AERU would be to develop the overall plan
for,  and  supervise  the  implementation  of,  agricultural  enterprise
rehabilitation and restructuring. This will include drafting of relevant
policies and strategic investment plan for agricultural enterprise subsector
rehabilitation; based on the existing survey carried out by DEA drafting
individual  enterprise  restructuring  plans;  collaboration  with,  and
supervision of local and international consultants; and supervision of
training of enterprise personnel. The AERU will develop the capability to
provide support to agricultural enterprises under rehabilitation and will



- 88 -
Annex 6
Page 2
undertake ad hoc tasks including studies and surveys dealing with
agricultural enterprises. Due to the general shortage of qualified staff,
the AERU will initially depend heavily on external consultants to carry out
its main responsibilities. However, with time it is expected that the Unit
would strengthen its own capabilities and, where available, recruit local
expertise. In carrying out its tasks the AERU will liaise with, and help
coordinate other GOM agencies' actions in relation to the rehabilitation of
agricultural enterprises.
3.02      In the context of policy formulation the AERU would:  (a) provide
policy advice to Government through analysis of the impact of specific
policies on the performance of enterprises - notably taxation, pricing
policies and price controls, production quotas, credit and foreign exchange
allocation, industrial licensing, trade (import, export and domestic)
policies and policies relating to asset revaluation; and (b) undertake
subsectoral reviews relatea to the restructuring of specific enterprises with
a view to better understanding interrelated problems.   In the context of
assistance to beneficiary enterprises the AERU would:   (a) select and
prioritize agricultural enterprises to be rehabilitated; (b) carry out
enterprise rehabilitation studies and formulate recommendations; (c) support
beneficiary enterprises during implementation of rehabilitation through
identification of sources of know how and financing; (d) assist beneficiary
enterprises in selection of consultants, and design of plans for
implementation of the restructuring; and (e) strengthen the capacity of
agricultural enterprises and local institutions through supervision of
training carried out by the Program for Training in Economic Management
(PROFORGE).



- 89 -
Annex 7
Page 1
Mozambique
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project
Terms of Reference for Studies. Surveys and Consultants
A. Studies and Surveys
I. General
1.01      Five major studies and surveys would be carried out during the
life of the project, namely, an Irrigation Development Master Plan, a Cashew
Tree Population Survey, a Cashew Development Master Plan, A Survey of Factors
Affecting Agricultural Productivity of Women, and an Organizational
Development Study for Caju de Mocambique. Some details on these activities
are given b'elow.
II. National Irrigation Development Master Plan (NIDMP)
2.01      Background.  The agricultural sector in the economy of Mozambique
accounts for about 40 to S02 of the GDP, employing over BOZ of the total
labor force and generating 80Z of the country's export earnings. However,
the total area under permanent cultivation is estimated at 2.5 to 3.0 million
hectares, which represents about 10Z of the cultivable land of the country.
Irrigation infrastructure exists over an area of 90,000 ha mainly in the
state, cooperative and private sectors, but on more than 36,000 ha the
infrastructure is not actually in use as most of it is badly in need of
rehabilitation and/or affected by various other problems.   The area with
irrigation infrastructure is distributed among:  (a) the irrigation scheme
in Chokwe (25,000 ha); (b) six sugar-cane estates (27,000 ha); and (c) other
medium- to small-scale irrigation schemes including the National Program for
Small-Scale Irrigation (PRONIPE) (38,000 ha). Irrigation studies have been
carried out on 1.4 million ha. Detailed designs have been prepared for about
25,000 ha of this area, feasibility studies for 150,000 ha, and for the
remainder of the area, studies are still at the identification or pre-
feasibility level.   Some 2,500 ha, for which detailed designs have been
prepared, are already under irrigation.   SEHA, the State Secretariat for
Agricultural Hydraulics, which works within the Ministry of Agriculture, is
in charge of optimal use of the country's hydraulic resources within the
framework of agricultural development, with responsibility to promote
construction, rehabilitation, and management of irrigation systems.
2.02      In 1986, a World Bank-financed Irrigation Sub-Sector Study (ISS)
was carried out by SOGREAH (France). A short-term program for development
of the irrigation sub-sector was drafted as part of the study. The proposed
NIDMP would constitute a more detailed approach than that of the above short-
term program, in line with the ultimate objective of developing in an optimal
manner the national irrigation potential. Due to various reasons including
agroclimatic conditions, development priorities and prevalent insecurity in
certain areas, it is proposed to limit the NIDMP to the Central and Southern
Provinces of Mozambique.   This would also limit the period envisaged for
implementation of the proposed development to 7-10 years which is considered
long enough in the present changing conditions.



- 90 -
Annex 7
Page 2
2.03      Obiectives.  The overall objectives of the NIDMP would be to:  (a)
elaborate water resource management studies for the main basins of Umbeluui,
Incomati, Limpopo, Pungoe and Buzi totalling about 520,000 km2; (b) review
and evaluate the National Small-scale Irrigation Program (PRONIPE); (c)
identify major constraints to irrigation development; and (d) formulate
policies for implementation, particularly regarding investments in the sub-
sector, priorities and institutional aspects.
2.04      Main Components.  The above objectives should be reached through
data and information collection, review and analysis. The general outline
for the main components to be dealt with under the Master Plan includes
(a) Water Resources Management. For each basin the following would
be carried out:
- updating of information already available in the ISS regarding
land and water resources, present situation of the irrigation sub-
sector, etc.  In particular, existing master plans for specific
basins need to be thoroughly reviewed to assess the measure to
which they could be used after updating, and ongoing and proposed
projects would be evaluated and ranked;
- identification of present and future users of the water resources,
with an assessment of annual requirements and their development up
to year 2010;
- water balance of resources and demands with a view to satisfying
agricultural needs for a minimum of 8 years out of 10;
- development of alternatives, taking into account agroeconomical
aspects;
- proposals for an integrated water development plan;
- definition of operating guidelines for the water mobilization
structures (mainly existing and future storage dams);
- proposals in respect of flood control;
- analysis of present and future situations of international water
rights; and
- identification of priority activities in the irrigation sub-
sector,   encompassing  new  infrastructure  as  well  as  the
rehabilitation needs of existing facilities.
(b) Identification of Major Constraints to Development. Based on the
analysis of available data and information and taking into account past and
ongoing experiences, identification should be made of major constraints
hampering: (i) the bringing into intensive cropping and full operation of
existing irrigation projects for which rehabilitation and improvement works
are required; and (ii) the successful implementation of new irrigation
projects. For both categories of works, institutional, budgeting, economical
and staffing aspects should be considered.



- 91 -
Annex 7
Page 3
(c)   Formulation of Policies.   Taking into account the development
targets of the country, i.e., satisfaction of the basic requirements of the
population, increased exports, and development of import substitution, and
taking into consideration the expected impact of agricultural production
under irrigation and the foreseen evolution of rainfed agriculture,
activities should be prioritized, and policies for the expansion of irrigated
agriculture and Master Plan implementation should be formulated. The role
and relative weight of agricultural production under irrigation should be
evaluated within the framework of total agricultural production. Formulated
policies would cover physical, institutional and economical aspects and would
deal with rehabilitation works and construction of new schemes and compare
alternative combinations; small scale compared to large scale irrigation
schemes; environmental impact; implementation arrangements; construction
capabilities; operation and maintenance capabilities; inputs, credit
(including the Agricultural Hydraulics Development Fund, FDHA), marketing and
processing; and extension, research and training. Other policies regarding
the development of key national sectors will also need to be taken into
consideration.
2.05      Organization, Staffi2g and Time Schedule.  organization, staffing
and time schedules should be proposed by the consulting firms in their bids.
However, tentative staffing and preparation costs are given in the following:
Staffing                                 Estimated Input
(man-months)
Water Planning Specialist (Team Leader)         8
Tropical Agronomist                            4
Hydrologist                                    6
Hydro-geologist                                3
Agro-economist                                  3
Institutions Specialist                        3
Unspecified                                     3
Total:                                        30
Tentative Cost Estimates                     USD '000
International and Local Staff                  360
Travel                                          52
Reporting                                       28
Unallocated                                      60
Total:                                         500
2.06      Administrative Arrangements.  Three Ministries should be involvedA
in the preparation of the NIDMP, namely the Ministry of Agriculture, more
particularly the State Secretariat for Agricultural Hydraulics (SEHA); the
Ministry of Construction and Water, specifically the National Water
D'.rectorate; and the Ministry of Industry and Energy.   In addition, the
National Planning Commission and the National Institute for Physical Planning
would participate in the formulation of the study. However, the coordination
of the study preparation would be the responsibility of SEHA.



- 92 -
Annex 7
Page 4
III. Cashew Tree Population Survey
3.01      BackRround.  About one third of the total country's area and more
than half of the rural population are involved in cashewnut production. In
1973, Mozambique was the largest cashewnut producer in the world with 216,000
tons of raw nuts produced from about 60 million trees. In that year. about
70,000 tons of raw nuts were exported to India. The remainder were processed
locally, producing about 25,000 tons of kernels. However, Mozambique's world
share fell to some 35,000 tons (less than 102 of world production) by the mid
1980s, recovering in 1988 to some 45,000 tons (13? of world production).
The decline in marketed volume of cashewnuts is largely due to the aging of
trees.  Since 1965, new plantings have remained on a very low level.  No
reliable information it available either on the cashew tree population, or
on existing pests and diseases and their impact on yields. Recent estimates
based on the 1970 census vary from thirty to fifty million trees of which
some 60? are fruit bearing.
3.02      Obiectives.  The main objective of the survey would be to assess
the present and future production potential of the sub-sector through a
Cashew Tree Population Survey to be carried out in the four traditional
producing provinces of the country and to be based on reliable information
on the number of cashew trees, their approximate production, age and area
distribution.
3.03      Organization,  Staffing  and  Time  Schedule.         Although  the
organization, staffing and time schedule would be affected by the detailed
terms of reference of the survey, tentative staffing and preparation costs
are given in the followings
Staffing                                 Estimated Input
(man-months)
Statistician (Team Leader)                      8
Agronomist/Cashew Expert                        5
Economist and Unallocated                       4
Totals                                         17
Cost Estimates                              USD '000
International and Local Staff                   210
Travel                                           30
Reporting                                        15
Remote Sensing, Equipment
and Unallocated                                45
Total:                                          300
IV. National Cashew Development Master Plan
4.01      Background.   Subsequent to the cashew tree inventory phase and
based on data obtained on production potentials, a Cashew Development Master
Plan will be prepared in order to identify investment and other resource



- 93 -
Annex 7
Page 5
needs for full rehabilitation and development of the country's cashew sub-
sector.
4.02      Obiectives.   Overall objectives of the Master Plan would be to
develop a medium- and long-term development plan, identify major difficulties
and constraints and formulate policies needed for long term development,
especially regarding pricing, processing, marketing and institutional
aspects.
4.03      Main Components.  The above objectives should be reached through
data and information collection, review and analysis. Intensive use should
be made of data included in the Cashew Sub-sector Study carried out in 1986
and the Cashew Tree Population Survey completed during the first project
year.   The Master Plan would propose a comprehensive development program
including investments in agricultural services, training, new plantings,
marketing and processing and would assess the policy and institutional
strengthening implications of the proposed development program.
4.04      Organization. Staffing and Time Schedule.  Organization, staffing
and time schedule would be affected by the results of the Cashew Tree Survey
and the proposals of the consultant which would carry out the study.
However, tentative staffing and preparation costs are provided in the
following.
Staffing                                 Estimated lIput
(man-months)
Economist (Team Leader)                         3
Agriculturist/Cashew Specialist                 2
Processing Specialist                           2
Agricultural Services Specialist
and Unallocated                              2
Totals                                          9
Cost Estimates                              USD '000
International and Local Staff                   115
Travel                                           1S
Reporting                                        10
Equipment and Unallocated                        20
Totals                                          160
V.  Assessment of Factors Affecting Agricultural Productivity of Women
5.01      Background.  Given the large proportion of women farmers in the
family sector (over 60S according to the 1980 census) and the fact that a
majority of farming as well as household tasks are carried out exclu-tively
by women, there is growing recognition that addressing the needs of women
farmers is critical to raising agricultural productivity. A recent study
carried out by DNDR, with assistance from UNICEF-financed consultant,
strongly recommended that women farmers should be viewed as a particular
target group for the agricultural extension service, involving sp cial in-
service training of extension workers and sensitization of t. e local
communities to women's role.



- 94 -
Annem 7
Page 6
5.02      Obiectives.  The main objective of the proposed study would be to
identify constraints to women's access to, and implementation of, extension
advice and to develop a comprehensive, phased and costed action plan for
addressing these constraints.
5.03      Organization. Staffing and Costs.  It is expected that the study
would be conducted in two main phases. The first would be focussed on data
gathering during field visits to two selected districts in each of the
Northern, Central and Southern regions of the country.  A workshop would
subsequently be held to discuss field findings and as a first step towards
the second phase of developing an action plan which would address specific
changes needed to enhance the productivity of women in agriculture. This
action plan would take due account of current institutional capacity to
implement proposed actions, and where necessary suggest cost-effective ways
for strengthening institutional capacity. It would specify timing for the
implementation of, and cost estimates for, the actions proposed. Finally,
it would propose a mechanism for monitoring and evaluating the implementation
of proposed actions, including a beneficiary impact assessment. Total study
costs are estimated at about USD 120,000.
VI. Caiu de Mocambiaue - Organizational Development
6.01      Background.  Caju de Mocambique (CM) is actively involved in nut
trading and is responsible for the management of the cashew processing
industry and the functioning of the cashew procurement and marketing systems.
In order to meet its future responsibilities, the cashew processing industry
needs tos   (a) understand better the requirements for recapturing and
developing international markets; (b) be able to offer sufficient incentives
to producers and traders to ensure the availability of an increasing supply
of raw cashewnuts; and (c) reshape its internal policies and its
organizational structure so that it can operate profitably over the long
term. Caju de Mocambique (CM) will use a team of consultants to help clarify
its long-term responsibilities and objectives and to begin to build
organizational structures and manpower resources needed for their
achievement.
6.02      Obiectives.   The main objective of the survey would be the
presentation of an actior plan concerning the future policy framework for,
and organizational structure of cashew collecting, processing and marketing.
The study will also formulate export promotion and marketing recommendations,
the setting up of a marketing information system if needed, and the
development of cashew by-products.
6.03      Main  Issues.   Among the  issues  to be  addressed ares    (a)
decentralization of the state-owned factories, including organizational
changes, technical, managerial, and administrative staff training, and
decentralization impact on CM responsibilities, Zuture role and staffing;
(b) the role of private and state-owned factories in international marketing
and procurement of inputs; and (c) national cashew marketing and processing,
pollcy-making and cashew processing long term investments and development.
6.04      Orianization. Staffinit and Time Schedule.   The study would be
Initiated at the end of the first project year. Staffing and organization
would be affected by the detailed terms of reference to be proposed by the



-95 -
Amne: 7
Page 7
consulting firms in their bids. However, tentative staffing and preparation
costs are given in the followings
Staffing                                 Estimated Input
(man-months)
Economist Expert in Trade of Food
Commodities (Team Leader)                    2
Organizational Development Specialist          2
Food Processing Specialist
and Unallocated                              3
Totalt                                         7
Tentative Cost Estimates                     USD '000
International and Local Staff                   90
Travel                                          12
Reporting                                       10
Equipment and Unallocated                        8
Totals                                         120
B. Consultants
1. Economist/Agricultural Economist
Job Description and Resyonsibilities.   Over a period of three
years, the consultant would assist the Head of the Agricultural Enterprise
Restructuring Unit to:
1.   Design a program to undertake  research intended to identify
appropriate strategies for the rehabilitation of agricultural
enterprises;
2.   Work with the Information Systems Specialist to identify data
required to support needed research and prepare both an inmediate
information gathering program and a system and workplan to maintain
a data base and to evaluate the impact of rehabilitation efforts;
3.   Analyze  the  data needed  to  support  agricultural  enterprise
rehabilitation;
4.   Identify and propose solutions to macro-economic policy barriers
to enterprise rehabilitation and development;
5.   Assist in designing near and medium-term enterprise rehabilitation
and development promotion policies and implementation strategies;
6.   Propose measures to lncreaoe public and private domestic and
international investment in agricultural enterprises;
7.   Assist directly in the identification, preparation, and eventual
evaluation of specific enterprise rehabilitation and development
investment projects;



- 96 -
Annex 7
Page 8
8.   Train national professional colleagues; and
9.   Collaborate in PROFORGE training activities.
Qualifications and Experience.   Masters degree in economics/agricultural
economics.   At least five years of prior experience in the design and
execution of comparable agricultural sector research programs in a developing
country setting.  At least three years' experience in Sub-Saharan Africa
project work.   Demonstrated fluency in spoken and written Spanish or
Portuguese.
2. Rural Design Specialist
Job Description and Responsibilities.   Over a period of about
twelve months, the consultant would assist the Head of the AERU tot
1.   Establish  a  methodology  for  designing  the  rural  space  of
agricultural enterprises (production and habitational spaces, and
road network) and rationalizing its use;
2.   Prepare detailed rural designs for agricultural enterprises, and
formulate terms of reference for the execution of proposed designs;
3.  Establish a methodology for monitoring and evaluating progress
made in rural design and implementation; and
4.   Help PROFORGE in formulating and carrying out training in rural
design.
Qualifications and Experience. A masters degree in architecture, ecology,
or agriculture.  At least five years of experience in the use of remote
sensing and aerial photography in designing of rural areas.   Project
experierce in a developing country setting. Demonstrated fluency in spoken
and written Portuguese and English.
3. Management Specialist
Job Description and Responsibilities. Over a period of about two
years, the consultant would assist the Head of the Agricultural Enterprise
Rehabilitation Unit in:
1.   Preparing an institutional development strategy that will move the
Institute quickly toward a self-financing status;
2.   Establishing Institute ties with major agricultural enterprises
and with private and public sector national and international
consulting groups;
3.   Identifying management and performance  improvement  assistance
priorities;
4.   Identifying  practical,  low-cost  approaches  for  providing  of
enterprise performance improvement services;



- 97 -
Annex 7
Page 9
5.   Designing and supervising of practical classroom and on-the-job
training programs to train national staff in effective problem
diagnosis and enterprise performance improvement techniques;
6.   Initiating of self-financing,  full fee-for-services enterprise
performance improvement work;
7.   Completing a Long Term Staff Training Plan; and
S.   Developing and using "case study" training approaches and materials
by the Training Department.
Qualifications and Experience. M.B.A. or equivalent university degrae. At
least ten years of successful experience in private sector management
consulting for private sector clients.   At least five years of project
experience in a developing country setting. Demonstrated fluency in spoken
and written Spanish or Portuguese.
4. Information Systems/Accountinr. Specialist
Job Description. and Responsibilities. Over a period of two years,
the consultant would assist the Head of the Agricultural Enterprise
Restructuring Unit to:
1.   Help identify data required to support enterprise research and
design and test both an information gathering and accounting
program and a system and work plan to maintain a data base in the
future;
2.  Design practical systems to gather and analyze the data needed to
support agricultural enterprise rehabilitation;
3.   Train  local  staff  and  local  consultants  in  data  gathering
techniques and accounting and supervise the imrv.ementation of data
gathering programs and setting up of accounting systems in the
field;
4.   Assist in the analysis of agricultural enterprise sector general
and accounting data; and
5.   Collaborate in PROFORGE training activities.
Qualifications and Experience. Doctoral degree in a management information
system area, statistics, or a related field. At least five years of prior
experience in the design and implementation of comparable information
management systems in a developing country setting. Demonstrated fluency in
spoken and written Spanish or Portuguese.
5. Airo-Industry SPecialist
Job Description and Responsibilities. Over a period of about six
months, the consultant would assist the Head of the Agricultural Enterprise
Restructuring Unit to:
1.   Carry out enterprise sector research work by undertaking economic,
financial, and managerial studies of agro-industry enterprises;



- 98 -
Annex 7
Page 10
2.   Design and execute enterprise data gathering and analysis works
3.   Develop  specific  rehabilitation  and  development  investment
promotion and performance improvement strategies;
4.   Provide  rehabilitation  and  development  investment  planning
assistance to enterprises;
S.   Provide management improvement assistance to enterprises;
6.   Train national professional colleagues; and
7.   Help strengthen agro-industry related training capabilities and
collaborate in PROFORGE training activities.
Qualifications and Exnerience. University training in an agro-industry field
such as industrial engineering or food processing and technology. At least
ten years of practical management or consulting experience in agro-industry.
Prior project experience in a developing country setting.   Demonstrated
fluency in spoken and written Spanish or Portuguese.
6. Farmer Organization Promotion Specialist
Job Description and Responsibilities. Over a period of about three
months, the consultant would assist DNDR and SEC tot
1.   Prepare a program document that describes the overall approach for
organizing groups, both men and women. and assisting them in their
activities;
2.   Recruit district group promoters, both men and women, and design
a training program for them;
S.   Promote a system for effective procurement of farm  inputs and
implements for project farmers and for marketing of their produce
with actions required at the country levell and
4.   Set up a system for the preparation of annual budgets, workplans,
performance reviews, and reports on farmer organization activities.
Qualifications and Experience. Suitable university degree and specialized
training in group dynamics or cooperatives. At least 5 years of experience
in developing countries in tasks that relate to promotion of farmer groups
or cooperatives. Fluency in spoken and written Spanish or Portuguese.
7. Trainint Specialist
Job Description and Responsibilities. Over a period of about six
months, the consultant would assist PROPORGE to:
1.   Introduce Ocase study' training techniques, develop a research mn4
performance improvement publications program, and strengthen
capabilities for preparing training materials; and



- 99 _
Annex 7
Page 11
2. Assist in completing *case study' demonstration materials based
on successful improvement of enterprise performance in Mozambique.
Qualifications and EV_erience. M.B.A. or equivalent university degree in
management or management education. At least five years of experience in
management training.   At least three years of project experience in a
developing country setting.   Fluency in spoken and written Spanish or
Portuguese.
8. Pricing Policy Analysis Specialist
Job Description and Responsibilities. Over a period of about siz
months the consultant would assist the SEC Directorate of Economics (SECIDE)
to:
1.   Analyze and update information on cashew production and processing
costs in the context of smail holder practices and production
incentives,  rural  procurement  and  transportation  expenses,
processing costs, and the maintenance of international export
markets;
2.   Formulate,  in  cooperation  with  producer  repsentatives  and
ministries involved, a long-term cashewnut pricing policy.
3.   Identify requirements and propose a plan for strengthening rural
cashew procurement and transportation systems;
4.   Design a simple system for the future updating of cashewnut pricing
policy and monitoring of farmgate and factory procurement costs and
prices, as well as processing and transportation costs;
5. Recommend and assist the SEC to seek National Comnission for
Salaries and Prices (CNSP) agreement to new farmgate and factory
procurement pricing policies and systems;
6.   Recommend a phased plan for the implementation of long-term cashew
pricing policy measures; and
7.   Prepare  a SEC staff training plan  in marketing  and pricing
policies.
Qualifications and ExPerience. A graduate degree in economics. At least
five years of experience in agricultural commodity pricing research and poli-
cy planning in comparable developing countries.   Fluency in spoken and
written Portuguese or Spanish.
9. Accountina and Cost Control SDecialist
Job Description and ResDonsibilities.   Over a period of about
eleven months the consultant would complete two separate but related
assignments, one with the State Secretariat for Cashewnuts (SEC) and the
other with the State Enterprise for Cashewnuts (CM).
The first assignment would be to assist SEC for a period of six months
over the first two project years and one month each in project year four
and six tot



- 100 -
Annex 7
Pale 12
l.   Design improved internal financial planning and budgeting systems
for its nation-wide and project area operations;
2.   Prepare a plan for the phased implementation of the proposed
financial planning and budgeting systems;
3.   Train SEC management and accounting staff in the use of proposed
systems; and
4.   Identify SEC financial management and accounting training and
equipment needs.
The second assignment, to be carried out duriug year two of the project,
would be to assist CM for a period of three months to:
6.   Design  and  test  decentralized,  factory-by-factory,  financial
management, budgeting, accounting, and cost control systems;
7.   Train CM management and accounting stafC in the use of proposed
systems; and
8.   Identify CM financial management and accounting training and
equipment needs.
Qualifications and Exnerience. A graduate degree in accounting, financial
management, or the equivalent. At least five years of experience in budget-
ing, planning, and accounting systems work in comparable developing coun-
tries. Fluency in spoken and written Portuguese or Spanish.
10. Cashew BY-Products Specialist
Job Descrintion and Responsibilities. Over a period of about three
months the consultant would:
1.   Assist the CM sales and Marketing Unit to identify procurement,
processing, and marketing measures to increase export earnings
from cashew by-products, including oils;
2.   Assist the CM sales and Marketing Unit to increase consumption and
sales of cashew processing by-products in local markets, including
jams and other preserves, and industrial tanning; and
3.   Assist the Cashew Processing and Training Consultant in adapting
processing techniques to increase by-product production.
Qualifications and Experience.  A graduate degree in Food Technology or
related fields. At least five years of practical experience in cashew or re-
lated by-product processing and marketing operations. Prior experience in
comparable developing countries. Fluency in spoken and written Portuguese
or Spanish.



- 101 -
Annex 7
Page 13
11. Cashew Processing and Traigins Specialist
Job Description and Responsibilities.   Over a period of about
twenty-four months, twelve months each in project years two and three, the
consultant wouldt
1.   Prepare  a phased plan  and assist  CH  to provide management
improvement, staff training, and factory rehabilitation planning
assistance to its decentralized factories;
2.   Assist CM in decentralizing its management of state owned cashew
processing factories;
3.   Cooperate with the Accounting and Cost Control Consultant in
developing decentralized accounting and budgeting systems:
4.   Cooperace with the Procurement & Equipment Installation Consultant
in the identification and purchase of equipment and spares for
factories to be rehabilitated under the project;
S.   Train CM staff in effective operation and maintenance of processing
factory equipment;
6.   Provide direct assistance to CM in management improvement, staff
training, processing modernization;
7.   Oversee the initial operation of rehabilitated plants; and
8.   Identify  long-term  managerial  and  technical  staff  training
requirements.
Qualifications and Experience. Engineering training in an appropriate en-
gineering or food technology discipline. At least five years of practical
experience in cashevnut or related by-product processing and marketing op-
erations. Prior experience in comparable developing countries. Fluency in
spoken and written Portuguese or Spanish.
12. Procurement and Equipment Installation Specialist
Job DescriDtion and Responsibilities. Over a period of about six
months, and most likely divided into two separate assignments, the con-
sultant would assist Caju de Mocambique (CH) to:
1.   Reassess  planned costs of the civil works,  machinery,  other
equipment, tools, and spare parts required to rehabilitate cashew
processing factories supported under the project;
2.   Complete. whenever needed, factory rehabilitation work plans and
schedules;
3.   Prepare and publish procurement documentation, acceptable to CM and
IDA, to support the completion of civil works and international
procurement;



- 102 -
Annex 7
Page 14
4.   Supervise the execution of civil works repairs, the repair of
existing machinery and equipment, the installation and testing of
new equipment, and the definition of acceptable 0 & M standards for
its utilization; and
5.   Prepare staff training plans in collaboration with the Cashew
Processing and Training Consultant.
Qualifications  and ExRerience.   University  training  in an appropriate
engineering discipline.   At least five years of practical experience in
cashewnut or related processing factory operations. Practical familiarity
with cashewnut processing equipment used in Mozambique.    Demonstrated
knowledge of processing equipment markets and IDA procurement guidelines.
At least three years of project experience in comparable developing
countries. Fluency in spoken and written Portuguese or Spanish.
13. Nursery Management and 0Deration Specialist
Job Description and Responsibilities. Over a period of about six
months divided into a number of assignments, the consultant would assist the
SEC Technical Directorate (SECITD) tot
1.   Reassess plans and budgets for the physical development of three
SEC cashew and fruit tree nurseries in the Gaza-Inhambane project
area, initiating work at one nursery during each of three
succeeding project years, to include building rehabilitation or
construction and other civil works specifications; grading,
irrigation, and drainage requirements; and work completion
timetables;
2.   Determine, in cooperation with the INIA, appropriate planting,
reproduction, and management programs for each of the three
nurseries;
3.   Reassess needs for imported nursery equipment and supplies and
prepare a procurement plan;
4. Design staff training programs and prepare annual operating budget
estimates for the three nurseries; and
5.   Present recommendations for training in nursery operation and
management.
gualifications and Exwerience. Graduate degree in agronomy. At least seven
years of experience in cashew and fruit tree nursery management.
Demonstrated ability to prepare nursery development and management plans.
At least five years of project experience in comparable developing countries.
Fluency in spoken and written Portuguese or Spanish.
14. Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
Job Description and Resnonsibilities. Over a period of about seven
months, divided into a number of assignments, the consultant would design and
help implement a M-E system capable of guiding the day-to-day management of
the project and periodicallv assess project impact on the cashew sector and
on institution building goals. More specifically the Consultant would assist



- 103 -
Annex 1
Page 15
the Directorates of the State Secretariat for Cashewnut, the State Enter-
prise for Cashewnut, and the head of the Agricultural Enterprise Restruc-
tural Unit toa
1.   Design and supervise the implementation of a soutd M&E system;
2.   Define work programs in the context of the overall project strategy
and to develop suitable indicators which may be used to effectively
monitor and assess project performance:
S.   Train local MWE officers to conduct surveys that would yield rapid
and relevant information;
4.   Compile periodic summary reports from the findings of field M&E
surveys and ensure dissemination of the survey findings to
appropriate officers; and
5. Take a leading role in annual and mid-term project reviews.
gualifications and Ex-erience. Graduate degree in economics, statistics, or
relevant social sciences. At least five years of experience in designing and
conducting monitoring and evaluation systems in comparable African developing
countries is required.   A knowledge of survey systems  (sampling, data
collection, data processing, and analysis) is essential, as is familiarity
with the use of micro-computers. Experience in managing an agricultural or
extension development project and in applying modern management techniques
to such projects would be a distinct advantage.  Fluency in spoken and
written Portuguese or Spanish.
15. Extension Training and M anaement Specialist
Job Description and Responsibilities. Over a period of about six
moths, divided into several assignments, the consultant would assist the SEC
Technical  Directorate  (SECITD)  and  the  National  Rural  Development
Department's (DNDR) agricultural extension service to:
1.   Prepare a plan and timetable for integrating SEC and DNDR extension
planning, training, management, and staffing in major cashew
producing areas;
2. Design, In coordination with DNDR and SEC/ITD, a multi-crop
extension service training program, using T & V - wTraining and
Visit' system principles, for cashew producing areas;
S.   Develop a plan for an extension training and supervision program
for the Gasa - lnhambane project areas that will permit the
SEC/DUDE to train and supervise at least 200 Field Extension
Workers (P1W);
4.   Prepare a detailed plan for advanced local and foreign training for
SEC/TD and DNDR extension service managers and middle-level
technicians; and
5.  Assess planned extension training equipment and logistical support
needs.



- 104 -
Annex 7
Page 16
Qualifications and Experience.   Graduate degree in agronomy, extension
management,  or a closely related discipline.   At least five years of
experience in small-holder tree crop production and extension system
improvement in developing countries and project experience in the T & V
extension methodology training and management. Fluency in spoken and written
Portuguese or Spanish.



- 105 -
Annex 6
Page 1
Mozambique
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Proiect
Implementation Schedule
A. Preamble
1.        The  following  actions would have  been  taken  before  credit
negotiationss
(a) Preparation of procurement documents for goods and consultants
needed for the first project year.
2.        The following actions would have been taken before the credit
effectiveness date:
(a) Selection of incremental personnel and long-term consultants for
AERIJ, the State Secretariat for Cashew (SEC), and Caju de
M4ocambique (CM); and
(b) Signing of contract for carrying out Irrigation Development Master
Plan.
3.        The following actions would be taken after credit effectiveness:
B. Project Implementation
Agency
Task                                 Comwletion Date          Responsible
(Months after Credit
Effective Date)
(1) Appointment of
Incremental Staff and
Long Term Consultants
- AERUs  Head                              +3                  MOA/DEA
Staff                             +5                 MOAIAERU/
DEA
- SEC: Senior Pricing Policy
Analysis Officer (SPPO)            +3                  SEC
Head of Technical Directorate       +3                  SEC
Economist, Aest. to SPPO            +5                  SEC
- CM:  Head of Sales an6 Trade Unit        +3                  SECICM



- 106 -
Page 2
(2) Procurement of Goods
- Expedite through GOM system until
delivery and distribution to users        +3 1'               SECICNIAZDR
(3) Cashew Rehabilitation and Develoiment
- Extension: o Review existing staffing,
appointment and training of
new staff in Inhambane
Province                     +2 V              SEC/NMA
o Review existing staffing,
appointment and training of
new staff in Gaza Province  +13                SECIWMO
- Research: o Training of personnel          +6                 INiA/SEC
o Implementation of research
program                        +13               INIAISEC
o Rehabilitation of research
stations                       +8                SsC/INIA
- Nurseriess o Rehabilitation of existing
and building of new
infrastructure ins
First Nursery                 +6                SEC
Second Nursery                +16               SEC
Third Nursery                 +26               SEC
- Credit: o Assistance in preparation of
credit requests for farmers
and traders                     During Project
Life              SEC/Banks
o Assistance in preparation of
credit requests for
rehabilitation of processing
facilities in:
o Xai-Xai                       +6                CKISKC/Ianks
o Inhambane                     +9                C/SE3C/Banks
o Machava                       +12               CM/SEC/Banks
- Institutional Developments o Prepare,
Arrange and carrv out training
for SEC and CM staff                    +4 Xl                CCaVMDA



- 107 -
Annex 8
Page 3
(4) Assistance to Agricultural Enterprises
- Prepare Terms of Reference for the
formulation of sub-sector policies
and &.rategies                            +5                AERUIMOA
- Detail studies and surveys to be
undertaken during the next twelve
months                                    +7 1/             AERU
- Identify specific enterprise
rehabilitation and restructuring to be
carried out during the next twelve
months                                    +9                AERUIMOA
- Formulate sub-sector policies and
strategies                                +12               AERU/MOA
(5) Carrvina out of Studies and Survevs
- Initiation of Irrigation Master Plan      +2                SEHAIMOA
- Signing of contract for carrying
out the:
o National Cashew Tree Population
Survey                                +6                SEC
o CM Management Study                   +16               SEC/CM
_ Cashew Development Master Plan        +18               SEC
o Assessment of Factors Influencing
Agricultural Productivity of Women   +18                SECIMOA
- Design of Farm and Factory-gate Pricing
System                                    +10               SEA/MOA
(6) Annual Work Plan, Reporting and
Monitoring and Evaluation
- Prepare detailed design of project
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) System   +6                 SEC/CM/AERU/
MOA
- Prepare detailed Annual Work Program
(AVP) fcr each project year              +7 V               SECICM/AERU/
MOA
- Implement M&U System                      +9                SEC/CM/AERU
- Carry out project implementation
review                                    +40               MOA



- 108 -
Annex 8
Page 4
- Formulate TOR for preparation of
second development phase                 +60               MOA
- Prepare second development phase         +65                SEC/MOA
- Prepare project completion report        +102              MOA
1/ Activities to be carried each Project year. To obtain subsequent year
completion date, add 12 to previous year's figure.



- 109 -
Annex 9
Page 1
Mozambique
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project
Supervision Plan
1.        IDA Supervision Input into Key Activities.   The staff input
indicated in the table below is in addition to regular supervision needs for
the review of progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence, etc.
(estimated for this project to require four staff weeks during the first
three project years, and three staff weeks per year thereafter).
2.        Borrower's Contribution to Supervision.
(a) Progress Reports are to be submitted as followss
xi) in the form to be discussed during the first IDA supervision
mission;
(ii) at the end of March and September of each year; and
(iii) by DEA in the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), which will
consolidate the reports prepared by the various proje-t
agencies.
(b)  Project review meetings with the participation of the various
project agencies will be held normally in mid-March and mid-
September of each year. The meetings will be chaired by the Vice
Minister of Agriculture.
(c) SEC ard AERU will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for
Bank supervision missions, and for providing information required
by missions. For missions concentrating on the implementation of
the Management Information System (MIS), specialist staff will be
made available for mission participation from the HOA, SEC, and CM
respectively.
(d) Mission briefing meetings on arrival, and wrap-up meetings normally
will be chaired by the Minister of Agriculture or his
representative, with the participation of the Vice Minister of
Agriculture, the State Secretary for Cashewnut, the General Manager
of CM and the Head of the AERU.



- 110 -
Annex 9
Page 2
tID. SuDervision Input into Key Activities
Approximate 1'
Dates                                       Expected Skill        Staff Input
(month/year)        Activity                   Requirements        (staff weeks)
11-12/90          Project Start-up             Task Manager
Mission                     Procurement, Accounting,    5.0
Auditing, Financial
Reporting and
Disbursement Specialists
2-3/91            Review of Detailed Plans    Management Specialist
fort (a) AERU, Pricing      Research Specialist          3.0
Policy Analysis, Sales
Unit (CM); (b) Cashew
Research Program
5-6/91            (a) Assist in Preparation   Task Manager
of Extension Plans;         Extension Specialist         5.0
(b) Review Nurseries        Cashewnut Specialist
Development Plans; and
(c) Annual Work Program
8-9191            Review of TORs of studies   Task Manager
and surveys to be carried   Other Specialists            3.0
out during the next twelve
months.
11-12/91          (a) Review of enterprises   Task Manager
selected for rehab. and     Management Specialist       10.0
restructuring during the    Water Mgt. Specialist
next twelve months;         WID Specialist
(b) Review of National
Irrigation Master Plan;
(c) Review of Survey of
Factors influencing
Agricultural Productivity
of Women; and (d) Review
of Cashew Marketing
Development Plan.
3-4192             (a) Review of agricultural  Task Manager
enterprise restructuring    Management Specialist
policies and strategies;
and (b) Review of extension
methodology.
6-7/92            Review progress in           Task Manager
agricultural services       Agricultural Services        8.0
development.                Specialists



- 111 -
Annex 9
Page 3
9-10192           Review progress in           Task Manager and
implementation of studies   other specialists             5.0
and surveys recommendations.
1993              Two Supervision Missions,   Task Manager and
one to coincide with the    other specialists as         16.0
preparation of the Annual   needed
Work Program.
1994              Two Supervision Missions,   Task Manager
one to coincide with the    Cashewnut Specialist         12.0
Project Implementation      Management Specialist
Review.                      and other specialists
as needed
1995-98           Two Supervision Missions    Task Manager and other
each year, one to coincide  experts as needed            10.0
with the preparation of the                              each
Annual Work Program, one in                              year
1996 to assist in the
preparation of the TORs for
the project second development
phase and another in 1998 to
prepare the PCR.
1/ Project supervision missions will be combined with other tasks in Mozambique.



- 113 -
Annex 10
Mozambique
Aaricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project
Documents Available in Proiect File
1.   Cashew Rehabilitation and Development Project for Gaza and Inhambane,
Project Proposal, Maputo, April, 1989.
2.   Economic Institute for Agricultural Enterprises,  Project Proposal,
Maputo, April, 1989.
3.   Review of Agricultural and Industrial Enterprises, Caju de Mocambique,
July, 1988.
4.   Cashew Rehabilitation and Development Project, Evaluation of a Number
of Selected Items, Maputo, February, 1989.
5.   The Cashew Sector in Mozambique - An Expert Analysis, 1988.
6.   Regulamento de Fundo de Fomento Agrario e de Desenvolvimento Rural.
7.   Agricultura, Mulher e Extensao Rurals Propostas Para Formacao de Grupos
Alvo, Setembro, 1989
8.   Specific Aspects of Irrigation Development, October, 1989.
9.   Cashew Rehabilitation and Development Component - Cashew Factories
Rehabilitation Program, October, 1989.
10. Training of Agricultural Enterprise Personnel, Detailed Plans and Costs,
PROFORGE, January, 1990.



MAP SECTION



18 2198t
~  ON  a.i
ZA RE tANZA.NW       34                            4B-
aW X t/k ~~~~~~~~~~~3- 311
A~4GO1A  MAIM 1COMOAOSTANZANA -K
AMBI                                                 DEL A
lt    d   j   lS,(            |,<Pem~~~~~~~~ba
MA   WlAW             IASS  --  
om~- 1                               /                      & I!,i'K M
A18°                          UANICA D <s >< Vi A 5 
D E~~~~~~~~~~~OTHO hVD141V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~42
-14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
/NAM
elrnne MOZAMBiQUE0
__                       )                     DY  AGRICULTURAL REHABILITAlON
AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ZIM BABW E                                                  PmK 2 SA oNurseres       20%
A  ExPoeg Nursery
>{ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  Cashew Fadonies
Limit of Cashew Growing Area
/~~~~~~~~P    QR4                    QCASHEW GROWING AREAS: 
I220o<  N H Akl B AN                                          Lobw Concentraion         2
\> 9 % v \ ~~~~~~~~1 3                             Medium Concentation
\  XGA~~ZA~  (\                PEDRAS      E]Hgh ConcenWtbn
t  0   \  8  Ahhat4    (ls  Ports of Regional Importnce
24° 0<\ j| -{~/< t 1, Local Porns
S0OUTH          \      t^iA XA1e< Rivers
AFRICA                         \>  Province Capkais
X rS 11ACU~~ATSEi   Natonal Capkal
A ZJ z  mancu[o                    Province Boundaries
-APUTO 0     100    200    3,0   -   Intemational Boundaries
/Ma ava          J(I KLOMETERS
30                        34 0           36            330           <40            0
November1989



