Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19416
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ARDP)
(Cr. 2175-MOZ)
June 9, 1999
Rural Development Operations
Eastern and Southern Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Metical (MT); pl. Meticais
At Appraisal US$1 = MT 935 (July 1990)
At Completion US$1 = MT 11,270 (June 1997)
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
Government of the Republic of Mozambique
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -         African Development Bank
AFTR1   -           Africa Technical Division Rural Development Group 1
ARDP    -           Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project
ASRDP   -           Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and Development Project
BPD       -         People's Development Bank (Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento)
CCADR               Agricultural Credit and Rural Development Fund
CM        -         State Cashew Enterprise (Cajui de Mocambique)
CNAA    -           Valuation and Sales Commission
CRP       -         Cashew Rehabilitation Project
DEA       -         Department of Agricultural Economics of MAP
DNDR    -           National Directorate for Rural Development of MAP
DPAP    -           Provincial Directorate of Agriculture and Fisheries
GOM                 Government of Mozambique
ICR       -         Implementation Completion Report
INIA      -         National Agricultural Research Institute of MAP
MAP                 Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
NCRP    -           National Cashew Research Plan
PROAGRI -           Agricultural Sector Public Expenditure Program
SAR      -          Staff Appraisal Report
SEC      -          State Secretariat for Cashew
SEHA     -          State Secretariat for Agricultural Hydraulics
SPC       -         Provincial Service for Cashew
UREA    -           Agricultural Enterprise Restructuring Unit
Vice President                Callisto E. Madavo
Director                      Phyllis R. Pomerantz
Sector Manager                Sushma Ganguly
Team Leader                   Miriam E. Brandao



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ARDP)
(Cr. 2175-MOZ)
Table of Contents
Preface       ...............................................................i
Evaluation Summary ...............................................................                                   ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES .......................................................I
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ...............................................................       .   2.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ..................................................... S
D. SUSTAINABILITY ...............................................................                        10
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ...............................................................                      10
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ...............................................................                  11
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ...............................................................                 11
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS ...............................................................                     12
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ...............................................................                   12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ...............................................................     14
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits ............................................................... 16
Table 3:  Project Timetable ...............................................................        16
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ................ 16
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation ......................................... 17
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .................................................. 17
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project ............................................................... 17
Table 8A: Project Costs ...............................................................            18
Table 8B: Project Financing ...............................................................        18
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits ............................................................... 18
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ...............................................................    19
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............................. 24
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ............................................................... 24
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ...............................................................    25
APPENDICES A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Government's Contribution to ICR
Map No. IBRD 29996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COM:PLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ARDP)
(Cr. 2175-MOZ)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural
Rehabilitation and Development Project (ARDP) in Mozambique, for which IDA Credit
2175-MOZ in the amount of SDR 11.9 million (US$ 15.4 million equivalent) was
approved on September 6, 1990, and became effective on April 30, 1991.
This ICR was prepared by a mission from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program and subsequently revised and finalized by Miriam Brandao. The report was
reviewed by Sushma Ganguly, Technical Manager, Rural Development 1 (Eastern and
Southern Africa). Preparation of the ICR commenced with the mission's visit to
Mozambique May 5-19, 1998. This report is based on material gathered from the project
files and supervision reports, as well as discussions with Bank and Government of
Mozambique (GOM) staff associated with the project. These included staff from the
Project Management Unit (established to coordinate the project's implementation), and
Government of Mozambique staff associated with the project, including the State
Secretariat for Cashew, the Directorate of Economics, the National Directorate of
Agricultural Extension, the National Agricultural Research Institute, and the People's
Development Bank. Information was also gained from field visits to the provinces of
Inhambane and Gaza, where discussions were held with staff of Provincial Directorates
of Agriculture and Fisheries (DPAPs) and the Provincial Services for Cashew. The
mission visited the Nhacutse, Chizavane and Inhamussa nurseries, the Nhacoongo
Experimental Station and cashew growing areas in the above provinces, as well as the
Ricatla Research Station in Maputo province.
The Government contributed to the preparation of the ICR through discussions on
the mission's Aide-Memoire. Government's own contribution to the ICR is provided on
Appendix B.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ARDP)
(Cr. 2175-MOZ)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.   The cashew industry, the largest in the world in production terms and the single highest
export earner for Mozambique in the 1970s, had fallen to about 10% of former production
levels by the mid-1980s. As an important source of income for over a million smallholder
farmers, the potential impact of rehabilitating the industry on farm families as well as on
factory employment and on the country's trade balance, was high.
2.   The project grew out of analysis undertaken jointly by the Bank and the Government of
Mozambique (GOM) in 1986 in four sectors: cashew, cotton, forestry and irrigation. The
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project (ARDP) aimed to reverse the declining
trends in the cashew subsector through a package of initiatives to support the production and
processing of cashew. In addition, it provided funds to undertake some exploratory studies
that would form the basis of further planning, particularly in irrigation. The ARDP was
viewed as the first phase of a long-term rehabilitation and development program.
Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
3.   The main objective of the project was to support the Government's efforts to assist the
family subsector to reverse the decline in cashewnut production and exportation through
selective rehabilitation of physical infrastructure and services, the provision of technical
assistance, and the implementation of policy reforms in pricing and marketing. The project
was also to contribute to the Government of Mozambique's (GOM's) stated policy of
restructuring state and commercial agricultural enterprises, and support basic studies and
surveys which were to strengthen and guide development of the agricultural sector once the
security situation had improved. These objectives were to be achieved through three main
project interventions: (a) rehabilitation and development of the cashew subsector; (b)
assistance to state and commercial agricultural enterprises; and (c) specific studies and
surveys.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.   General. The project suffered significant start-up delays. Following effectiveness in
1991, little implementation progress was made until 1993. Since this was the first IDA
operation in the agriculture sector since independence, there was no experience with Bank
operations and a general unawareness of procedures. The security situation in the provinces,
while improving, impeded field work and it was understandable that significant time would



iii
be required to rebuild GovernmLent services. Staff were poorly paid and hence poorly
motivated.
5.   The main period of project activity took place during 1994 and 1995 when notable
progress was made in the extension activities and technical assistance. Most of the civil
works on the nurseries took place during 1995. However, the availability of counterpart funds
became an impediment to project activities in 1994/95 and continued during the remainder of
the project's life.
6.   Two major policy changes early in the project forced the redesign of the components
for the assistance to the cashew processing industry. First, with the change in Bank policy
(effective in 1992) not to assist state-owned enterprises, the credit component for factory
rehabilitation and the technical assistance component for the State Cashew Enterprise (CM)
were frozen. Second, with the privatization strategy adopted by the Government, the role of
the Agricultural Enterprise Restructuring Unit (UTREA) was redesigned to provide a technical
asset valuation function as an input into the privatization process. Therefore, the project's
activities in supporting the restrucluring of state and commercial enterprises were re-cast.
7.   As a proportion of budget allocations, extension was the highest cost activity to be
supported by the project. The activities centred on the development of an extension network
in the provinces where previously none existed, and training and equipping field extension
workers to advise on an integrated package of cashew and food crops technology messages.
Designed to be a pilot program, the project was able to establish networks in 13 districts in
Inhambane and Gaza provinces. Some 160 extension workers were hired and trained by the
project, reaching in six years 80% of its target of 200 extensionists. It was expected that each
extension agent would provide service to between 500 and 600 farm families when the
project was fully established. But, the maximum coverage achieved was 274 families per
extensionist, with the average remaining at around 125 families. Factors such as the poor
road conditions, the long distances covered, and lack of appropriate means contributed to this
low ratio. But the main constraint to the achievement of the obj ectives of this component was
the scarcity and unpredictability of counterpart funds and, later, salaries for extension staff.
The extension service is considered to have been reasonably successful in its training and
capacity building activities in relation to food crops; it was less successful in cashew, where
only a small proportion of farmers were successfully taught to graft. The project's extension
activities were taken over by the ASRDP when the ARDP closed.
8.   The research component involved support to the preparation of the National Cashew
Research Plan (NCRP) and support (in the form of vehicles, equipment and materials) to the
country's clonal orchards at the Ricatla Research Station. General research objectives,
appropriate to address the technical problems in the industry, were set out. However, the
budget allocation to this component was very small, representing less than 2% of total
component costs. The reason for this low support was that this component was only meant to
complement activities being carried out under a project funded by the African Development
Bank (ADB) in the northern part of Mozambique (which covered clonal propagation).
Assurances were obtained by IDA during negotiations that the NCRP would be formulated
and initiated by the second project year, yet the draft Plan was never adopted by the GOM.
Because of this low budget allocation, the research component stalled while the components
with budgets (extension, nurseries, credit) were able to go ahead.



iv
9.   The cashew nursery program aimed to establish 14,000 ha of new stock for the family
subsector and 1,600 ha for commercial plantations by the eighth project year. Three project
nurseries and one experimental station were to be rehabilitated for the purpose of producing
grafted trees, and more than 23 buildings were either built or rehabilitated by the project. But,
the target production rates for the component were unrealistic considering that: (i) the
nurseries had to be rehabilitated and staffed, (ii) there was no previous experience at this
scale of operation in the country, and (iii) the techniques for grafting cashew require high
skills. Retarding the progress in the nursery component was the failure to achieve satisfactory
success rates in vegetative propagation methods. In addition, problems with contractors
resulted in long delays which led to two nurseries not being rehabilitated. And, the irrigation
systems envisioned did not become operational during the life of the project due to technical
difficulties and poor management.
10. The investment credit component failed totally as no loans were advanced. Initially,
there were delays in starting this component because the participation agreement between the
Bank of Mozambique and BPD was not signed. Later, support to factory rehabilitation
through this component became contrary to Bank policy (1992). The main obstacle for
potential borrowers of production and marketing credit was the requirement to provide
adequate collateral to the People's Development Bank (BPD) since it was to take the full
commercial risk. Attempts by BPD to negotiate guarantees or indemnity arrangements with
the Ministry of Finance were unsuccessful. Some 20 proposals were put forward by
beneficiaries but were all rejected by BPD on the above grounds. In 1993, the Bank proposed
that the project provide credit for farmers' groups. A survey to assess this was undertaken
and action was taken by BPD to promote the group approach. In 1995, with still no credit
advanced, the Bank proposed that NGOs be involved in the formation of farmers' groups for
credit for planting new trees. The group approach failed, not only on the issue of adequate
security, but also due to the wariness of farmers to form new financially-based groups of any
kind, stemming from their negative experiences of groups and cooperatives during socialist
times.
11.  Institutional Development. The support to CM was cancelled due to the policy
changes mentioned above. In the State Secretariat for Cashew (SEC), local and international
consultants provided valuable assistance in financial control, monitoring and evaluation and
pricing policy analysis. With moves to close the SEC, this capacity has been transferred to
the Department of Economics (DE) in the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAP).
12.  Agricultural Enterprise Restructuring. Following the policy changes conceming
state-owned enterprises mentioned above, the role of the UREA was changed to that of
evaluating agricultural state enterprises and clearing legal issues. Starting effective
implementation in 1993, 71 enterprises were to be assessed over three years. A review of
UREA's performance and constraints undertaken by the Bank in February of 1995, found that
the Unit had not met the achievement levels and had cost more than a similar unit in the
Ministry of Industry and Energy. The privatization process for agricultural enterprises was
facing greater legal issues (related to land tenure) than other sector enterprises as well as
design impediments in the privatization process itself. The Bank, therefore, decided to
discontinue support to the Unit. The Unit was closed and its capacity was absorbed into the
Valuation and Sales Commission (CNAA) in the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries.
13.  Other Surveys and Studies. The National Cashew Tree Population Survey, and The
National Cashew Development Master Plan were prepared to provide a longer-term planning



v
perspective, as well as integrating other activities in the subsector. The Irrigation Master
Plan concentrated on the river baslins in the southem and central regions of the country and
was used as base data for the preparation of a small-scale irrigation project to be financed by
the ADB, and the FAO Special program for Food Security. Both activities are now included
in the Agricultural Sector Public Expenditures Program (PROAGRI).
Achievement of Objectives
14.  For the cashew component, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) indicated that expected
benefit targets of the project were annual incremental production of 10,000 tons of cashew
from project beneficiaries in the project areas located inInhambane and Gaza provinces.
Project beneficiaries were expected to be about 50,000 smallscale family farmers and 100
new commercial producers of cashew by the eighth year of the project. At the time of project
closure, project beneficiaries were about 16,000 smallholder farmers (32% of target) and no
commercial producers. Production of raw nuts in the project area was variable over the
project period, attributable to many influences resulting from the project itself and from
extemal factors. It is not possible to identify the production changes attributable to each of
the main influencing factors: drought, improving security and higher farm gate prices brought
about by market reform in the industry. The project made a start to restore effective
agricultural extension services in the two provinces by hiring, training and equipping some
160 extension workers from 1992-95. However, the planting program, the key to the
development strategy behind the extension and nursery components, which were the main
investments made under the project, was unsuccessful and did not contribute to increased
production. Also, no commercial ifarms were established. The proj ect therefore failed to
achieve its production objectives.
15. Due to major changes of both Government and Bank policy concerning support to
state-owned enterprises, the component to support these was drastically redesigned and
reduced. In .effect, these changes removed the obj ective of supporting the restructuring of
state and commercial enterprises from the proj ect. The results of the specific studies
contributed to the understanding and guidance of the development of the sector, particularly
on the work done on irrigation and the cashew tree survey.
Project Technical Design
16.  The planting program proposed by the project, using existing genetic material, was
appropriate as a short-term measure to start the recovery process. However, it needed to be
implemented in conjunction with a longer-term strategy for genetic improvement both for
improved productivity and nut quality, and for oidium resistance. In addition, the project
design should have also recognized the immediate production losses from oidium, and
included a short term strategy againstoidium to bridge the intervening period. Instead of this
two-pronged approach, the project relied on obtaining a long-term strategy from theCashew
Research Master Plan, which it proposed to finance. Two versions of this Plan were
eventually prepared, but the first was not available until the fifth year of the project, and
neither version has been formally adopted by Government.
17.  Therefore, the project's technical design left major gaps in the strategy to restore the
industry. Had the planting program been implemented successfully, some production



vi
recovery would have resulted but the trees would have had the same nut quality and
susceptibility to disease and pests as before. The project made only passing reference to
research and did not assist the Government to address the long-term technical improvements
for the industry. The project's rather limited short-term strategy resulted in lost opportunities
to make a start to restore, not only the production of raw nuts, but the international
competitiveness of the domestic processing industry.
Project Cost and Financing
18.  The eight-year project was appraised on September 10, 1989, signed in September 24,
1990 and became effective on April 30, 1991. The project costs were estimated at US$ 17.8
million, with the IDA Credit financing US$ 15.4 million. As part of a Bank portfolio
restructuring exercise, steps were taken during 1996 to redesign the activities and credit
agreements of both the ARDP and the Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and Development
Project (ASRDP). The undisbursed balance of the ARDP Credit was cancelled and its
extension, research and nursery activities were transferred to the ASRDP. The restructuring
was approved by the Bank in May 1997 and the ARDP credit was closed on June 6, 1997. An
amount of SDR 7.5 million of the original SDR 11.9 million (63%) was cancelled. Following
qualified audit reports of project accounts in late 1996, the Bank placed conditions on further
disbursements under the project and started the process of recovery of the funds advanced to
the Special Account. The final audit of the project's accounts was received in mid-1998, at
which time preparations were begun for carrying out this ICR.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
19. The outcome of the project was influenced by following main factors: the inexperience
of Mozambican staff with Bank procedures; the technical design of the project; the complex
implementation responsibilities; the scarcity and unpredictability of counterpart funds; the
failure to achieve satisfactory success rates in grafting; the incomplete rehabilitation works at
the specified nurseries; and the inability of potential borrowers of the credit to provide
adequate collateral.
Project Sustainability
20.  The extension, research and nursery sub-components of the ARDP were transferred to
the IDA-funded ASRDP. Gaps that ensued during the transition process were covered by the
Govemment, which provided basic operational funds. Under the PROAGRI, a 15-year
program which is starting in 1999, agricultural services are given high priority and represent
some 39% of program costs. Therefore, under the PROAGRI, it is considered likely that
these services will be sustained. Proj ect sustainability is unlikely without the PROAGRI.
Bank Performance
21.  For the reasons mentioned above concerning the technical design of the project, and
the complexity of its implementation arrangements, the Bank's performance in identification
and preparation assistance is rated as unsatisfactory. During the supervision of the project,



vii
the performance of the Bank in assisting the Government to address implementation issues
was considered deficient to marginally satisfactory. There seems to have been a substantial
disconnect in performance ratings with respect to the development objectives (DO) during
the early stages as well as throughout the latter years. Although few of the project's
objectives were being attained, the project was consistently rated as either highly satisfactory
or satisfactory. With regard to implementation status, the rating was satisfactory for most of
the life of the project, which does not help to explain why some components were being
cancelled and others were being completely redesigned. On the other hand, the project
received a lot of attention and support from the Bank throughout its implementation period.
There was a strong presence of agriculturists and extension/agricultural services specialists in
Bank supervision teams, contributing to the progress made in these areas during 1994/95.
And, in the end, the supervision team also showed a high level of proactivity by
recommending the cancellation of the project two years ahead of schedule once it became
apparent that the proj ect would not achieve its development objectives.
Borrower Performance
22.  Although this was the first 'Bank project in agriculture following years of insecurity
and was consequently a new exercise for Mozambique staff attached to the project, the
continued poor implementation performance cannot be attributed to this factor. The
Government's performance in coordinating activities, taking decisions and maintaining the
project as a priority is considered unsatisfactory. In addition, the lack of counterpart funds
was a major factor negatively affecting the performance of the agricultural services
component of the project. And theire is still the outstanding issue of the use of project funds
for the payment of ineligible expenditures, which is not yet resolved. Compliance with legal
covenants and audits was generally satisfactory.
Project Outcome
23.  While the project made progress towards the reestablishment of extension networks in
selected districts, and made valuable contributions tosubsector analysis and planning through
the studies and surveys, the project achieved minimal progress towards the primary objective
of reversing the decline in production in the cashew subsector and is rated as having an
unsatisfactory outcome.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
24.  Findings. The main emphasis of the proj ect was the restoration of extension (and other
agricultural) services in two areas badly affected by internal insecurity that were cashew
production areas. The technical base for cashew had also eroded, and the project relied
heavily on a program of propagation of existing genetic material through grafting in
rehabilitated nurseries. The project design underestimated the difficulties in achieving
success in grafting cashew, and also underestimated the importance of research for genetic
improvement as the basis for future competitiveness of the industry. Poor coordination, low
morale, unavailability of adequate counterpart funds and the failure to complete the
rehabilitation works contributed to the failure of the project to achieve its objectives.



viii
25.  Future Operations. As mentioned above, there has been little progress attributable to
the project in restoring the subsector. Initial delays and a shortened project life have meant
that the nurseries will need further funds and technical assistance if they are to make a
contribution to the production of grafted seedlings. But support to the development of a
cashew production strategy as well as the provision of extension services in the two
provinces is continuing under the ASRDP. With the policy of Govemment to abolish the
" Secretariats," a new Cashew Institute has been created which will have the main
responsibility to guide the development of the industry. But, the Govemment will continue to
have a strong role in the provision of agricultural services to the smallholder sector, and
considering the importance of the cashew subsector, renewed attention is planned for its
development under the PROAGRI.
26.  Lessons Learned. The key lessons to be leamed from the project are:
* Experience has shown the important role that macroeconomic and agricultural
policies play in influencing agricultural performance. In countries where the
appropriate macroeconomic and agricultural policy environments are not in
place, projects should provide the platform for the Bank to support policy
reforms and the fine-tuning of policy regimes. The continued disbursement of
project funds should be linked to the effective implementation and
maintenance of the policy framework, without which project success cannot
be guaranteed.
* The technical aspects of restoring this type of subsector must be given
sufficient priority in design and implementation to address short-, medium-
and long-term production constraints. Careful consideration must be paid to
technical assistance, training and research needs which are commensurate
with the country's overall institutional capacity.
* Careful consideration should be given to ensuring that project objectives and
design are based on operational capacity and skills levels of the institutions
concerned. Where institutional capacity is weak, project objectives should be
modest and project design should be simple.
* As the example of the research component indicates, actions/activities
fundamental for project development and results should be incorporated in the
project design, where accountability is more easily ensured.
* Projects are designed to respond to conditions prevalent at a specific time and
place, therefore, context is very important. This project was prepared when
Mozambique was still at war, and implemented during the early years of the
peace process. In its desire to support and promote peace, the Bank needs to
carefully consider the prevailing policy, institutional and legal environments,
resisting the inclination to create a "special case" mentality, where some of
the rules are bent to suit the context.
* When it becomes apparent that government funds are not available, as
indicated by the continued lack of counterpart funding, Bank project should be



ix
scaled back to a sustainable size. In the particular case of agricultural projects,
where delayed funding at crucial times can set activities back one whole
agricultural season, the provision of counterpart funds on time and on budget
is essential to ensure the achievement of results.
* When it became apparent that project objectives would not be achieved, the
Bank took steps to transfer essential components to another ongoing credit,
cancelled remaining funds, and closed the project two.years ahead of
schedule. This type of action indicates a very strong level of proactivity on the
part of Bank staff and management and should be encouraged.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ARDP)
(Cr. 2175-MOZ)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
I.   The main objective of the project was to support the Government's efforts to assist the
family subsector to reverse the decline in cashewnut production and exportation through
selective rehabilitation of physical infrastructure and services, the provision of technical
assistance, and the implementation of policy reforms in pricing and marketing. The project
was also to contribute to the Government of Mozambique's (GOM's) stated policy of
restructuring state and commercial agricultural enterprises, and support basic studies and
surveys which were to strengthen and guide development of the agricultural sector once the
security situation had improved. These objectives were to be achieved through three main
project interventions: (a) rehabilitation and development of the cashew subsector; (b)
assistance to state and commercial agricultural enterprises; and (c) specific studies and
surveys.
2.   Cashew subsector rehabilitation and development covered the provision of agricultural
services such as extension, applied research, production of new stock, and marketing;
investment credit for commercial production, marketing, and the rehabilitation of three
cashewnut processing factories; institutional development; and evaluative surveys.
Assistance to state and commercial agricultural enterprises was designed to complement
ongoing institution-building activities supported by other donors, and took the form of
advisory services provided to small- and medium-size state and commercial enterprises in the
areas of: developing restructuring policies and strategies; management, administration, and
production planning; conducting specific studies and surveys; and personnel training. The
Studies and Surveys component was intended to strengthen agricultural sector management
capacities, policy making, and the formulation of medium- and long-term development
strategies. This component included an Irrigation Development Master Plan, a Cashew Tree
Population Survey, a Cashew Development Master Plan, a Survey of Factors Affecting the
Agricultural Productivity of Women, and an Organizational Development Study for the State
Cashew Enterprise (CM).
3.   The project was appraised in August 1990, signed in September 1990 and became
effective in April 1991. The project costs were estimated at US$ 17.8 million, with the IDA
Credit financing US$ 15.4 rnillion. Following qualified audit reports of project accounts in
late 1996, the Bank placed conditions on further disbursements under the project and started
the process of recovery of the funds advanced to the Special Account. As part of a Bank
portfolio restructuring exercise, steps were taken during 1996 to redesign the activities and
credit agreements of both ARDP and the Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and



2
Development Project (ASRDP) with the purpose of cancelling theundisbursed balance of the
ARDP Credit, transferring the extension, research and nursery activities to the ASRDP, and
then closing the ARDP Credit. The restructuring was approved by the Bank in May 1997 and
the ARDP credit was closed on June 6, 1997, two years ahead of schedule. An amount of
SDR 7.5 million of the original SDR 11.9 million (63%) was cancelled.
4.   The cashew industry, once the largest in the world in production terms and the single
highest export earner for Mozamlbique in the 1970s, had fallen to about 10% of former
production levels by the mid-1980s. The potential impact of rehabilitating the industry on
farm families returning to their farms after years of insecurity, on factory employment and on
the country's trade balance, was high. The objectives were well placed within the context of
the economic rehabilitation priorities for the agricultural sector that were identified in the
Agricultural Sector Survey completed as a forerunner exercise to the preparation of the
project. The project was consistent with activities to be financed underIDA's Second and
Third Rehabilitation Credits, and other IDA-supported projects in the industrial sector. The
project's objectives also complemented those of the Cashew Rehabilitation Project (CRP) in
northern Mozambique, supported by the African Development Bank (ADB).
5.   The statement of objectives in themselves gave no clear indicators of project
performance which was to be ac:hieved. However, for the cashew component, the SAR
indicated that the expected benefit targets of the project were annual incremental production
of 10,000 tons of cashew, 1,200 tons of maize and 1,000 tons of beans from project
beneficiaries in the project areas located in Inhambane and Gaza provinces. The project
beneficiaries were to be about 50,000 small-scale family farmers and 100 new commercial
producers of cashew.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Cashew Subsector
6.   Production of raw nuts in the project area was variable over the project period,
attributable to many influences resulting both from the project itself and from extemal
factors.
Production (tons)
Province         90/91     91/92      92/93     93/94     94/95      95/96
Inhambane       3,283      3,206      915         38      5,710     8,912
Gaza            7,065      7,184     1,707       124     8,365     10,231
Total           10,348    10.,390    2,622       162     16,075    19,143
7.   Drought during 1992 to 1.994, particularly severe in the southern regions of
Mozambique, was a major influence on production levels during the project. In addition,
market reforms had a significant impact. At the end of the project, while the marketing of
cashew had not been fully liberalized, major steps had been taken by the Government in this
direction. A reduced export tax on raw nuts to protect the processing industry remained



3
(down from 26% in 1994/95 to 14% in 1996/97). Starting in 1994, an improved share of
export values was reflected in farm gate prices and this obviously had an impact on collection
and management. Another contributing factor leading to increased collections of nuts was the
improving security situation which enabled farmers to return to their farms and permitted
access to the trees for harvest and better management.
8.  It is not possible to identify the production changes attributable to each of the above
factors. While the project financed technical assistance to give guidance on pricing and
marketing policy, specific reforms were not conditionalities of the projectd. The project made
a start to restore effective agricultural services in the two provinces. However, the planting
program, the key to the development strategy behind the extension and nursery components
which were the main investments made under the project, was unsuccessful and did not
contribute to increased production. Also, no commercial farms were established. The project
therefore failed to achieve its production obj ectives.
9.   Due to major changes of both Government and Bank policy concerning support to
state-owned enterprises, the component to support these was drastically redesigned and
reduced. In effect, these changes removed the objective of supporting the restructuring of
state and commercial enterprises from the proj ect.
10.  The results of the specific studies contributed to the understanding and guidance of the
development of the sector, particularly on the work done on irrigation and the cashew tree
survey.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
General
11.  Two major policy changes early in the project forced the redesign of the components
for the assistance to the cashew processing industry. First, with the change in Bank policy
beginning in 1992 not to assist state-owned enterprises, the credit component for factory
rehabilitation and the technical assistance component for CM were frozen. Second, with the
privatization strategy adopted by the Government, the role of the Agricultural Enterprise
Restructuring Unit (UTREA) was redesigned to provide a technical asset valuation function as
an input into the privatization process. Therefore, the project's activities in supporting the
restructuring of state and commercial enterprises were re-cast.
12.  Although the SAR stated that the project was designed in a simple but effective fashion
to ensure simplicity in implementation, the implementation of the project was complex in that
it involved many implementing agencies for project activities. The overall implementing
responsibility lay with the Ministry of Agriculture, specifically with the State Secretariat for
Cashew (SEC). The responsibility for the cashew subsector components was to be assumed
by a component coordinating unit established in the office of the Secretary of State for
Cashew. Others involved were the Provincial Services for Cashew (SPCs), the National
Agricultural Research Institute (INIA), the National Directorate for Rural Development
From 1995, the issue of processing industry protection became a major point of discussion between the
Government, the Bank, and the private sector participants in the industry.



4
(DNDR), the Provincial DirectoraLtes of Agriculture (DPAs); the State Cashew Enterprise
(CM), -the Bank of Mozambique (BM), the People's Development Bank (BDP), the
Agricultural Enterprise Restructuring Unit (UREA) to be established in DEA, and the State
Secretariat for Agricultural Hydraulics (SEHA). The mechanisms of coordinating many
agencies proved to be difficult.
13.  The project suffered significant start-up delays. Following effectiveness in 1991, little
implementation progress was made until 1993. This can be attributed to several factors. Since
this was the first IDA operation in the agriculture sector since independence, there was no
experience with Bank operations and a general unawareness of procedures. The security
situation in the provinces, while improving, impeded field work. While farm families were
returning to their previous farms, time was needed for them to build confidence that the peace
would hold permanently, an essential element of their taking a long-term view on investing
effort and money into on-farm rehabilitation. After such a protracted period of insecurity, it
was understandable that significant time would be required to rebuild Government services.
Staff were poorly paid and hence poorly motivated. This was exacerbated by the fact that
staff engaged by the project were on higher salaries, leading to resentment between
coodinators and implementers on the ground.
14.  The main period of project activity took place during 1994 and 1995 when significant
progress was made in the extension activities and technical assistance. Most of the civil
works on the nurseries took place dLuring 1995. However, the availability of counterpart funds
became an impediment to project activities in 1994/95 and continued during the remainder of
the project's life.
15.  The amount originally allocated for civil works in the project was SDR 160,000
(US$250,000 equivalent). The amount actually disbursed under this category was
SDR 462,000 (US$ 650,000 equivalent). While the construction of the houses for extension
workers was completed, a few buildings at the nurseries and the experimental station were
not completed. None of the irrigation systems was completed.
Cashew Subsector Rehabilitation
Extension
16.  As a proportion of budget allocations, extension was the highest cost activity to be
supported by the project. The activities centred on the development of an extension network
in the provinces where previously none existed, and training and equipping field extension
workers to advise on an integrated package of cashew and food crops technology messages.
Designed to be a pilot program, the project achieved in establishing networks inMassinga,
Morrumbene, Homoine, Panda, Jangamo, Inharrime, Inhambane and Zavala districts in
Inhambane and Xai-Xai, Manjacaze, Chibuto, Bilene and Chokwe in Gaza, introducing a
methodology based on the training and visit system covering both food crops and cashew.
17.  The extension system was designed to be multi-disciplinary and involved the cross
training.of extension workers. The training program got under way in 1993/94, providing
training on various themes to 1,762 participants (extension staff and farmers) via 83 training
courses. Some 160 extension workers were hired and trained by the project, reaching 80% of
its target of 200 extensionists. There were cashew specialists from the Provincial Service for



5
Cashew (SCP) to provide technical back-up. Some start-up coordination problems existed
between SCP and DPA staff. It was expected that each extensionist would provide service to
between 500 and 600 families when the program was fully established. But, by project
closure the maximum coverage achieved was 274 families perextensionist, with the -average
actually remaining at around 125 families. Factors such as the poor road conditions, the long
distances to be covered, and lack of appropriate means contributed to this low ratio.
18.  The extension messages on food crops were simple, production oriented techniques on
planting, spacing, fertilizer application and pest management. For cashew, the main messages
included selection criteria of trees, grafting techniques andoidium. There were some cultural
practices but most farmers were already aware of the need for bush clearing. Only a small
proportion of farmers were successfully taught to graft, not surprising as the technique was
not mastered in Mozambique until the introduction of softwood grafting in 1995. It was also
proposed that the farmers organize communal nurseries to produce their grafted trees, but
very few of these were actually formed.
19.  The main constraint to the full achievement of the objectives of this component was the
scarcity and unpredictability of counterpart funds and, later, salaries for extension staff,
although Gaza suffered less in this area. Farmers took considerable time to build up trust in
the Field Extension Workers and confidence in the lasting peace. In circumstances where
visits and field activities were postponed or cancelled due to lack of funds, this process was
set back. The cessation of funds from the project starting in 1996 resulted in a reduction in
extension staff of about 50% and a run down of the service. With delays in salary payments
and insufficient operational funds, staff morale was low.
20.  The extension service is considered to have been reasonably successful in its training
and capacity building activities in relation to food crops; it was less successful in cashew.
These functions were taken over by ASRDP when the project closed.
Research
21.  The research component involved the preparation of the National Cashew Research
Plan (NCRP) and support (in the form of vehicles, equipment and materials) to the country's
clonal orchards at the Ricatla Research Station. General research objectives, appropriate to
address the technical problems in the industry, were set out and included: identification of
pests and diseases; screening of oidium tolerant trees; development of vegetative
propagation; improvement in cultural practices; development of integrated pest management
methods. However, the budget allocation to this component was very small, representing
only 2% of total component costs. The reason for this low support was that this component
was only meant to complement activities being carried out under a project funded by the
African Development Bank (ADB) in the northern part of Mozambique (which covered
clonal propagation). Because of this low budget allocation, the research component stalled
while the components with budgets (extension, nurseries, credit) were able to go ahead
22.  Assurances were obtained by IDA during negotiations that the NCRP would be
formulated in the first project year and initiated by the second project year. But, there were
considerable delays in starting the formulation of the NCRP. In September 1993, a draft
version of this plan was produced by an external consultant (Milhiero). Following the
completion of the draft NCRP report it remained for INIA and SEC to jointly review it and



6
provide an approved final version to the Bank. By the closure of the project, a final version
had not been agreed on or adopted by the GOM.
23. The government had previously allocated all research functions to INIA, however, this
organization had virtually no specific research expertise in cashew. All available information
on cashew was located in SEC, but these resources did not include any technical expertise.
Clearly, the production of the final version of NCRP would, at the very minimum, require the
close collaboration of SEC and MNIA, and poor coordination of activities was a factor that
affected this and other project activities.
24.  In addition the commencement of the Cashew Rehabilitation Project (CRP) in 1991,
funded by the ADB, may have contributed to some lack of urgency in pursuing the research
activities- 'after all, some things were happening'. The CRP project had similar (but more
limited) research objectives but the scope of operations was restricted to northern provinces.
Although the CRP started in 1991, little progress was obtained before 1995 because of
difficulties in achieving acceptable success rates in vegetative propagatioi.
Cashew Nurseries
25.  Cashew nurseries were to be set up in order to enable smallscale farmers to replant or
clone graft new stock and commercial farmers to set up smallscale plantations. The target for
the family subsector was to establish 14,000 ha of new stock by the eighth project year.
Commercial plantations were expected to be set up on 1,600 ha, at the rate of 300 ha per year
for the first four years of the project, thereafter tapering off to about 100 ha per year. Project
nurseries were to be set up at the rate of one per year, for the first three years of the project.
They were also to assist small farmers with grafting training. Three nurseries and one
experimental station were to be rehablilitated (Nhacoongo and Rio das Pedras - later changed
to Inhamussa - in Inhambane province and Chizavane and Nhacutse in Gaza province). The
target rates for the nursery program were unrealistic considering that: (i) the nurseries had to
be rehabilitated and staffed, (ii) there was no experience at this scale of operation in the
country, and (iii) the techniques for grafting cashew require high skills.
26.  The project did carry out much of its program of construction and rehabilitation of the
nurseries and experimental station. More than 23 buildings were either built or rehabilitated
in the Nhacoongo Experimental Station and in the Nhacutse Nursery. Multiple problems with
contractors resulted in long delays, and in the end there was no time to initiate the works
intended for the other nurseries. In addition, the irrigation systems did not become
operational during the life of the proj ect due to technical difficulties and poor management.
27.  A major factor retarding progress in the nursery component was the failure to achieve
satisfactory success rates in vegetative propagation methods. It appears that the grafting issue
was only resolved in 1995 by assistance from the CRP project in Nampula when the soft
wood grafting technique was introduced. One other factor that affected the performance of
the nurseries was that they were also significantly involved with other crops. It is possible
that attention to these may have detracted from the cashew effort.
2 Cashew is far more difficult to graft than other tree crops such as citrus, mango, avocado and rubber.



7
Investment Credit
28.  The project was to extend investment credit for on-farm development, marketing and
factory rehabilitation on commercial terms through participating financial institutions
(commercial banks). The People's Development Bank (BPD), the major lender to the rural
sector, was to be the manager of the line of credit.
29. This component failed totally as no loans were advanced. Initially, there were delays in
starting this component because the participation agreement between the Bank of
Mozambique and BDP was not signed. The terms of this agreement were the subject of
protracted negotiations between the two agencies. In addition, as mentioned above, support to
factory rehabilitation through this component became contrary to Bank policy after 1992, and
no loans were made for this purpose. The main obstacle for potential borrowers of production
and marketing credit was the requirement to provide adequate collateral to BPD since it was
to take the full commercial risk. Attempts by BPD to negotiate guarantee or indemnity
arrangements with the Ministry of Finance were not successful. Some 20 proposals were put
forward to BPD but were all rejected on these grounds.
30. The design of the credit component was based on unsupported or incorrect
assumptions. The project assumed that a new group of commercial farmers growing cashew
would emerge during the first four years of the project. For this to happen, investors would
have needed to have waited for the reforms in marketing and pricing to take effect (financial
retums to producers under price fixing were initially too low to justify new investment), to
have proved planting material available, and to provide security to BPD. There was no
knowledge of commercial-scale cashew production at the time. Increases in producer prices
began to take effect only during 1995 and by the time the project activities were suspended,
land tenure, ownership and transfer issues remained uncertain following the war. Land, being
state owned, was not suitable security and other collateral was required by BPD.
31. The production base for the cashew industry was the small-scale family farm and one
group of the project's beneficiaries was identified as 50,000 small-scale farmers that would
require investment credit for planting new trees to achieve increased production. Small
farmers were not catered for under the credit component, but the project relied on the
operations of the Agricultural Credit and Rural Development Fund (CCADR) to provide the
necessary smallholder credit. This fund, established in 1988 and administered by BPD, was
designed to provide subsidized credit for rural investment by veteran soldiers, returnees,
cooperatives and family producers, producers of cereals and others affected by natural
calamities. However, by June 1989, over 70% of the portfolio had been directed towards state
enterprises and other politically-influenced lending. During the remainder of 1989 and 1990,
the fund was fully disbursed and the repayment experience was unsatisfactory. Therefore, by
the beginning of the project, this was unavailable for small cashew farmers, as the project
design had anticipated. In 1993, the Bank proposed that the project provide credit for
farmers' groups along the lines of the credit component of ASRDP. A survey to assess this
was undertaken and action was taken by BDP to promote the group approach. In 1995, with
still no credit advanced, the Bank proposed that NGOs be involved in the formation of
farmers' groups for credit for planting new trees. The group approach failed, not only on the
issue of adequate security, but also due to the wariness of farmers, stemming from their
negative experiences of groups and cooperatives during socialist times, to form new
financially-based groups of any kind. Underlying these factors, the nurseries did not produce
planting material for sale that could have been financed under the credit scheme.



8
Institutional Development
32.  The support to the State Cashew Enterprise (CM) was cancelled due to the policy
changes mentioned above. In SEC, local and intemational consultants provided valuable
assistance in financial control, monitoring and evaluation and pricing policy analysis. With
moves to close the SEC, this capacity has been transferred to the Directorate of Economics of
the MAP.
Agricultural Enterprise Restructuring
33.  Following the policy changes conceming state-owned enterprises mentioned above, the
role of the UREA was changed to that of evaluating agricultural state enterprises and clearing
legal issues. Starting effective operations in 1993, 71 enterprises were to be assessed over
three years. Dealing with small to medium scale enterprises, the results of the work were to
be passed on to the Valuation and Sales Commission (CNAA) within the Ministry of
Agriculture. Larger enterprises were handled directly by the Unit for Enterprise Restructuring
in the Ministry of Finance.
34.  A review of UREA's performance and constraints undertaken by the Bank in February,
1995 found that the Unit had not met the achievement levels (as defined by the number of
enterprises assessed), and had cost more than a similar unit in the Ministry of Industry and
Energy. The privatization process for agricultural enterprises was facing greater legal issues
(related to land tenure) than other sector enterprises as well as design impediments in the
privatization process itself. The Bank therefore decided to discontinue support to the Unit.
The Unit was closed and its capacity was absorbed into the CNAA.
Other Surveys and Studies
35.  Through the Cashew Subsector component, the project financed two studies. The
National Cashew Tree Population Survey, completed in 1994, was the first such study
undertaken since before independence, and provided valuable data on the age condition and
location of all cashew plantings. This is an important document and has been used, and still
being referred to, in subsector planning.
36.  The National Cashew Development Master Plan was prepared to provide a longer-term
planning perspective, as well as integrating other activities in the subsector. There were two
versions3 but at the time of closing of the project, a master plan had not been formally
adopted by Government.
37.  Irrigation Master Plan. This major study concentrated on the river basins in the
southern and central regions of the coumtry. This was in response to the higher incidence of
drought experienced there, and were the areas that were more accessible during the time of
the study, 1993. In the light of policy changes towards a market-based economy following
the study, the investment recommendaLtions need to be revisited. The increased participation
and responsibility of users for operation and maintenance also needs to be incorporated. The
3 Olivares - "Cashew Production Development Strategy - 1996-2005", 1995 and Mann "Cashew
Development Master Plan 1996-2006".



9
study was used as base data for the preparation of a small-scale irrigation project to be
financed by ADB, and the FAO Special Programme for Food Security. Both activities are
now included in PROAGRI.
Technical Aspects of Project Design
38.  During over 15 years of insecurity, no replanting of trees took place. A significant
number of the trees had been completely abandoned or lost through fire. Reduced numbers
and the low productivity of the remaining ageing trees were considered to the main problems
to be addressed through a major replanting program. The strategy was to propagate new
planting material from a selection of mother trees, both in nurseries, and by way of an
extension program to teach farmers to identify better performing mother trees and to graft
scions from these trees onto seedlings. Genetic improvement was not considered to be a
priority (because it was being pursued under the ADB-funded project) and therefore the
project placed low priority on research. The activities of the project included the formulation
of a research strategy for the longer term, but there was no budget for the consequent
research activities. In addition, since it was known at project preparation that the technical
base for the industry had been virtually lost, the project provided little in the way of technical
assistance, which only amounted to several short-term inputs totalling six months by a
nursery management specialist. This was later extended to 16 months. The Cashew Research
Master Plan identified the need for long-term external TA but at the close of the project, no
action had been taken on implementing the plan.
39.  At the start of the project in 1990, there was little useful data available on the cashew
selections in Mozambique and the project target was to establish 15,600 ha of new stock
(some 1.5 million new trees) in eight years. In these circumstances, the only real option
possible would have been an initial mother tree selection based on a single assessment of
high total yield and possibly large nut size. This type of assessment could lead to erroneous
conclusions - total yield is as much related to environment, tree condition, and management
as it is to genetics, while performance in one year could vary for a number of reasons. In
addition, nut size is usually inversely related to kernel size and kernel recovery rates, and
selection on nut size only could lead to reductions in these characteristics. The highly
desirable characteristics, large kernel size, high kernel recovery rates and high yield, are
exhibited in a very small proportion of the gene pool, and it is these characteristics that are
crucial for improving the financial results for both farners and the processing industry. This
can only be achieved by a scientific program of genetic selection.
40.  Oidium was recognized as a factor in Mozambique (and Tanzania) and therefore
addressing this problem in both the short and long term was important. The approach taken in
Tanzania was to supply chemicals (sulphur) and spraying equipment. There are, however,
implications for soil acidity in this approach. This project did not address the problems of
oidium, either through short-term measures (chemical treatment) or through longer-term
measures (genetic selection for resistance). The research component contemplated the
screening of oidium tolerant trees, but, as previously stated, this program was not funded and
could not be implemented.
4 An improvement in kernel size from W320 to W240 together with improvement in kemel recovery from
say 22% to 28% would improve crop unit values to farmers by 30% and to processors by 30 to 35% in
higher values and lower unit processing costs.



10
41.  Therefore, the planting program using existing genetic material was appropriate as a
short-term measure to start the recovery process. However, it needed to be implemented in
conjunction with a longer-term strategy for genetic improvement both for improved
productivity and nut quality, and for oidium resistance. In addition, the project design should
have also recognized the immediate production losses from oidium, and included a short-
term strategy against oidium to bridge the intervening period.
42.  Therefore, the conclusion must be drawn that the project's technical design left major
gaps in the strategy to restore the industry. Had the planting program been implemented
successfully, some production recovery would have resulted but the trees would have had the
same nut quality and susceptibility to disease and pests as before. The project made only
passing reference to research and did not assist the Government to address the long-term
technical basis for the industry (except by funding the preparation of the Cashew Master Plan
which was not conclusive on this matter and was never adopted by the GOM). The project's
rather limited short-term strategy resulted in lost opportunities to make a start to restore, not
only the production of raw nuts, but the international competitiveness of the domestic
processing industry.
D. SUSTAINABILITY
43.  The extension, research and nursery sub-components of the ARDP were transferred to
the IDA-funded ASRDP. Gaps that ensued during the transition process were covered by the
Government, which provided basic operational funds. Under the PROAGRI, a 15-year
program starting in 1999, agricultural services are given high priority and represent some
39% of program costs. Therefore, under the PROAGRI, it is considered likely that these
services will be sustained. Without the PROAGRI, sustainability is unlikely.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
44.  For the reasons mentioned above concerning the technical design of the project,
especially its short-term focus to a long-term problem, and the complexity of its
implementation arrangements, the Bank's performance in identification and preparation
assistance is rated as unsatisfactory. The design of the investment credit component was also
based on unsupported or incorrect assumptions. The project assumed that a new group of
commercial farmers growing cashew would emerge during the first four years of the project.
For this to happen, investors would have had to have waited for the reforms in marketing and
pricing to take effect (financial returns to producers under price fixing were initially too low
to justify new investment), to have proved planting material available, and to provide security
to BPD. There was no knowledge of commercial-scale cashew production at the time.
Increases in producer prices began to take effect only during 1995, and at the time the
project's activities were suspended, land tenure, ownership and transfer issues remained
uncertain. Land, being state owned, was not suitable security and other collateral was
required by BPD.
45.  During the supervision of the project, the performance of the Bank in assisting the
Government to address implementation issues was considered deficient to marginally
satisfactory. On the positive side, the project received a lot of attention and support from the
Bank throughout its implementation period. There was a strong presence of agriculturists and
extension/agricultural services specialists in Bank supervision teams, contributing to the
progress made in these areas during 1994/95. The Bank averaged 2.8 supervision missions



11
per year, with 1-6 people spending an average of 16 days in the field. The project's task
management was changed only once during the supervision period, providing consistency
and continuity for the Government. Supervision missions were usually composed of technical
specialists who sought to provide solutions to long-standing problems. This is evidenced by
the fact that in addition to the task manager (first an agriculturist and then an economist)
there were credit and/or financial management specialists (three missions), extension
specialists (five missions), and others (specialists in agriculture, organizational management,
land management, environment, and public service development) who participated in
missions. Specialized knowledge of research and cashew issues was provided by
agriculturists experienced in research systems and tree crops. And, in the end, the supervision
team also showed a high level of proactivity by recommending the cancellation of the project
two years ahead of schedule once it became apparent that the project would not achieve its
development objectives. On the other hand, there seems to have been a substantial disconnect
in performance ratings with respect to the development objectives (DO) during the early
stages as well as throughout the latter project years. Although few of the project's objectives
were being attained, the project was consistently rated as either highly satisfactory or
satisfactory. There was also a disconnect with regard to implementation status. Its rating was
satisfactory for most of the life of the project, and this contradicts the fact that out of
necessity (including poor performance) some components were being cancelled and others
were being completely redesigned. Also, a stronger technical presence of cashew grafting and
research specialists could have made a great difference in the overall direction of the project,
correcting some important design flaws.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
46.  Although this was the first Bank project in agriculture following years of insecurity
and was consequently a new exercise for Mozambique staff attached to the project, the
continued poor implementation performance cannot be attributed to this factor. The
Government's performance in coordinating activities, taking decisions and maintaining the
project as a priority is considered unsatisfactory. In addition, the lack of counterpart funds
was a major factor negatively affecting the performance of the agricultural services
component of the project. Compliance with legal covenants and audits was generally
satisfactory.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
47.  The positive outcomes of the proj ect were:
*  The establishment of extension networks in selected districts that made a start
to restoring Government agricultural services after the war;
*  The contributions made to sector and subsector planning by the surveys and
studies;
*  The contribution that the project made to the analysis behind the reforms of
the processing and marketing of cashew.
48.  However, the following factors heavily influenced the assessment of the outcome of
the project:



12
* poor project design;
*  delayed and limited implementation progress;
*  incomplete civil works;
*  non-achievement of production objectives;
* limited progress in tackling the short- and long-term development constraints
that affect both producers and processors.
49.  The project achieved minimal progress towards the primary objectives of reversing the
decline in production in the cashew/-subsector and is rated as having an unsatisfactory
outcome.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
50.  As mentioned above, there has been little progress attributable to the project in
restoring the subsector. Initial delays and a shortened project life have meant that the
nurseries will need further funds and technical assistance if they are to make a contribution to
the production of grafted seedlings. But support to the development of a cashew production
strategy as well as the provision of extension services in the two provinces is continuing
under the ASRDP. With the policy of Government to abolish the "Secretariats," a new
Cashew Institute has been created which will have the main responsibility to guide the
development of the industry. But, the Government will continue to have a strong role in the
provision of agricultural services to the smallholder sector, and considering the importance of
the cashew subsector, renewed attention is planned for its development under the PROAGRI.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
51. The key lessons to be learned from the project are:
* Experience has shown the important role that macroeconomic and agricultural
policies play in influencing agricultural performance. In countries where the
appropriate macroeconomic and agricultural policy environments are not in
place, projects should provide the platform for the Bank to support policy
reforms and the fine-tuning of policy regimes. The continued disbursement of
project funds should be linked to the effective implementation and
maintenance of the policy framework, without which project success cannot
be guaranteed.
*  The technical aspects of restoring this type of subsector must be given
sufficient priority in design and implementation to address short-, medium-
and long-term production constraints. Careful consideration must be paid to
technical assistance, training and research needs which are commensurate
with the country's overall institutional capacity.



13
* Careful consideration should be given to ensuring that project objectives and
design are based on operational capacity and skills levels of the institutions
concerned. Where institutional capacity is weak, project objectives should be
modest and project design should be simple.
* As the example of the research component indicates, actions/activities
fundamental for project development and results should be incorporated in the
project design, where accountability is more easily ensured.
* Projects are designed to respond to conditions prevalent at a specific time and
place, therefore, context is very important. This project was prepared when
Mozambique was still at war, and implemented during the early years of the
peace process. In its desire to support and promote peace, the Bank needs to
carefully consider the prevailing policy, institutional and legal environments,
resisting the inclination to create a "special case" mentality, where some of
the rules are bent to suit the context.
* When it becomes apparent that government funds are not available, as
indicated by the continued lack of counterpart funding, Bank project should be
scaled back to a sustainable size. In the particular case of agricultural projects,
where delayed funding at crucial times can set activities back one whole
agricultural season, the provision of counterpart funds on time and on budget
is essential to ensure the achievement of results.
* When it became apparent that project objectives would not be achieved, the
Bank took steps to transfer essential components to another ongoing credit,
cancelled remaining funds, and closed the credit two years ahead of schedule.
This type of action indicates a very strong level of proactivity on the part of
Bank staff and management and should be encouraged.



14
'PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives   Substantial   Partial  Negligible Not Applicable
Macro policies               F I        F          F 
Sector policies               C         57         7          F
Financial objectives         F          7          5           F
Institutional development     L                    LI         L I
Physical objectives            -I       FLI                    FI
Poverty reduction               I        LI                    L I
Gender issues                 LI        LI         F 
Other social objectives      LI           I        FI 
Environmental objectives      LI        L  I       L
Public sector management      L           -I         1         0
Private sector development      I       LI         5             I
Other (specify)               LI        LI         L 



15
B. Project sustainability         Likely     Unlikely5  Uncertain
(1)         (/)         (4)
Highly
C. Bank performance           Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Deficient
(1)         (I)         (1)
Identification                 E           7            -
Preparation assistance        7             L          T
Appraisal                      L            g          T
Supervision 6                              o F
Highly
D. Borrower performance         Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Deficient
(/)          (1)         (1)
Preparation                   F I                      [ 
Implementation                 H            C          T
Covenant compliance                        T E
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                      Highly
E. Assessment of outcome    Satisfactory    Satisfactory Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory
(V)            V )           (10(/
Sustainability becomes likely under the PROAGRI.
6 Because of the extensive attention paid to the project by supervision teams, as well as the strong level of
proactivity shown by the team in recommending the cancellation of the project ahead of schedule, Bank
performance in supervision assistance could be considered marginally satisfactory.



16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title         Purpose                Year of       Status
approval
Following operations
1. Agricultural Services    Support the development of  1992       Ongoing
Rehabilitation and      agricultural services,
Development Project (Cr.  particularly in relation to the
2337-MOZ)               cotton-subsector.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle         Date planned         Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)               September 5, 1986
Preparation                            December, 1992   August 1, 1989
Appraisal                                                September 10, 1989
Negotiations                           April, 1990       May 29, 1990
Board presentation                     June, 1990        September 6, 1990
Signing                                                  September 24, 1990
Effectiveness                                            April 30, 1991
Midterm review (if applicable)         March, 1995       No midterm review
Project completion                     June 30, 1999     June 6, 1997
Loan closing                           June 30, 1999     June 6, 1997
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY91  FY92  FY93   FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98
Appraisal estimate      2.90  6.30  8.70   11.10  12.80  14.00  14.80  15.40
Actual                  1.00  1.91  2.87    3.96   5.81   6.13   6.29       -
Actual as % of estimate   34%   30%   33%    36%    45%    44%    43%
Date of final
disbursement                               May 6, 1997



17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key implementation
indicators in SAR/               Estimated                   Actual
President's Report
None Specified
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I. Key operating
indicators in                    Estimated                   Actual
SAR/President's Report
Not Applicable            Not Applicable            Not Applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study            at appraisal/redefined'      Status     Impact of study
l. Irrigation  To elaborate water resource      Completed  Substantial - has
Master Plan    management studies for the main              served as base data
river basins in central and southern         for subsequent
Mozambique, identify major                   investments
constraints in irrigation development,
and formulate implementation
policies.
2. National   To provide reliable data on the age,   Completed  Substantial - has
Cashew Tree   condition and location of cashew              provided valuable
Population    plantings and assess the present and          data and is still
Survey        future potential of the subsector.            being used in
subsector planning
3. National   To develop a medium- and long-term   Completed  Minimal - never
Cashew        development plan, identify major              adopted by GOM
Research Plan   difficulties and constraints, and
(NCRP)        formulate policies needed for long-
term development, especially
regarding pricing, processing,
marketing & institutional aspects.
4. National   To develop a longer-term planning    Completed  Minimal - two
Cashew        perspective, as well as integrating           versions produced
Development   other activities in the subsector.            and neither
Master Plan                                                 adopted by GOM



18
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)     Actual/latest estimate (UJS$M)
Local    Foreign       Total       Local      Foreign      Total
Costs      Costs,                  Costs       costs
Item
Cashew          4.27      8.82           13.09    0.36        3.79           4.15
Subsector
Rehabilitation
Agricultural    0.55      2.94           3.49     0.07        1.14           1.21
Enterprise
Restructuring
Studies and     0.28      0.94           1.22     0.00        1.32           1.32
Surveys                                          I
TOTAL          5.10      12.70         17.80    0.43         6.25           6.68
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)   Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local   Foreign  Total         Local      Foreign  Total
Costs    Costs                 Costs       Costs
Source
IDA                   2.7       12.7      15.4      0.60          5.69      6.29
Government            1.2       -         1.2       0.38         N/a        0.39
Participating Banks    0.7      -         0.7       0             0         0
Credit Beneficiaries    0.5     -         0.5       0             0         0
TOTAL                 5.1       12.7      17.8      0.98          5.69      6.68
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The SAR calculated financial returns for improved cashew cultivation on both family and
commercial farms, and for investment in factory rehabilitation. The cashew cultivation practices
assumed purchased grafted seedlings and fertilizer as the basis for increases in production, which
was valued to produce intemal rates of returns in various cost/price scenarios. Since the project
supported no factory rehabilitation and failed to produce grafted seedlings in any significant
quantity, a recalculation of the financial and economic rates of return from the project was not
considered warranted.



19
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Mozambique
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project
Agreement
DCA Credit  Section              Covenant   Present       Original       Revised    Description of covenant        Comments
No: IDA                            Ttnnt                                Fulfllbnent
21750                              Type       status     foiluet          run
Date           Date
2.02 (b)                      C                                        The borrower shall open and   None
maintain in dollars a special
account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory
tot he Association and in
accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5.
2.04                          C                                        Payment of Commitment         None
Charges on the principal amount
ofthe Credit to the Association
as of June 30 of each year.
2.05                          C                                        Payment of Service Charge on    None
the principal amount of the
Credit to the association.
3.01 (a)                      C                                        Commitment to the Objectives   None
ofthe Project with respect to
funds, facilities and management
(staff) as set forth in Schedule 2
ofthe DCA.
3.01 (b)                      CP                                       To cany out the Project in    Activities under
accordance with the          Part D of the
Implementation Program set   Implementation
forth in Schedule 6 to the DCA.  Prograrn have been
suspended due to
privatization.
3.01(c)                       C                                        Out of the proceeds of the Credit None
for Part A.2 of the Project,
relend to BM an amount
equivalent to SDR 2,300,000
under the Subsidiary
Administration Agreement to be
entered into between the
Borrower and BM on terms and
conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association and
as set forth in Schedule 4 to this
DCA.
3.02 (a)                      C                                        Except as the Association shall   None
otherwise agree, procurement of
goods, works a.nd consultants'
services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be
govemed by the provision so
Schedule 3 to the DCA.
3.02(b)                       C                                        Procuremern of plant protection   None
chemical materials under Part
A.2 of the Project shall be
reviewed and approved by the
Association.



20
Agreement
DCA Credit  Section               Covenant   Present       Original       Revised      Description of covenant       Comments
No: IDA                                                   Aflmn           uUnn
21750                               Type       status     fulfillment    Fnlf ent
Date           Date
3.03 (a)                      NC          12/31/1990                    Legally establish and maintain    Establishment of
the Sales and Trade Unit within  Sales and Trade
CM in accordance with the     Unit suspended due
provisions of Part D of Schedule  to privatization
6 to the DCA.
3.03 (b) (i)                  NC          12/31/1990                    Select a Marketing Economist    Selection suspended
and Economist specialized in  - see above.
food processing to be assigned to
Sales and Trade Unit.
3.03 (b) (ii)                 C           12/31/1990                    Select a Senior Pricing Policy    Complied with.
Analysis Officer within SEC
with the functions and
responsibilities referred to under
Part E of Schedule 6.
3.03 (b) (iii)                C           12/31/1990                    Select AERUs                  None
Economist/Agricultural
Economist, Management
Specialist and Information
Systems/Accounting Specialist,
with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the
Association and in accordance
with TOR agreed with the
Association.
3.03 (c)                      C           12/31/1990                     AERUto fumishto the           None
association, for its review and
comments, the TOR for the
formulation of the policy and
strategic investment plan referred
to under Part B. 1 of the Project.
3.04 (a)                      CP          12/31/1993                     Carry out and complete the    Delays due to
studies and surveys referred to   intemal political
under Parts A.4 and C of the  difficulties in the
Project in accordance with TOR   privatization
agreed with the Association and   process and
funmish to the Association, for its  management
review, the recommendations of  problems in AERU.
said studies and surveys.
3.04(b)                       C           12/31/1993                     Carry out said recommendations, None
taking into consideration the
views provided by the
Association.
3.05 (a)                      CP          03/31/1995                     Conduct, with the association, a   In-depth review
mid-term review to monitor    carried out in July
progress achieved in Project  1995.
implementation and meeting
Project objectives, and update
Project timetables and cost
estimates.
3.05 (b)                      CP                                         Carry out those               Amrendment to the
recommendations arising out of  DCA.
said review in accordance with
an action program and a
timnetable ageed with the
Association.



21
|Agreeinent
DCA Credit  Section               Covenant   Present        OgWnal         Revised      Descrhption of covenant       Coendents
21750                               Type       status                                     in Ps(i,               b      ytA       d
Date           Date
|         ~~~~3.06                        CP          03/31/1919                    Fumish to the association, for its  Activities under
l                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~approval, the respective detaled   A. 3 (b) (i) to (iv) 
|                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~design and irnplementation  were suspended,
i                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~schedule for the systems referred  and were cancezlled
to in Parts A.3 (a) (iv), A.3 (b)   by the Amendmen 
(iv) and B.6 of the Project; and   to the DCA.
promptly thereafter, implement
said systems in accordance with
terms and schedules agree with
the Association.
4.01 (a)                      C                                           Maintain records and accounts    None
adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices,
the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
4.01 (b) (i)                  C                                           The borrower and BM shall have  None
the records and accounts referred
to in para (a), including those for
the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited by
independent auditors acceptable
to the Association.
4.01 (b) (ii)                 C                                           Fumish to the Association, not   None
later than nine months after the
end of each such year, a certified
copy of the report of such audit.
4.01 (b) (iii)                 C                                          Furmish to the association such    None
other information concerning
said records, accounts and the
audit thereof as the association
shall from time to time
reasonably request.
6.01                          C                                           Employ consultants' services, in  None
accordance with the provisions
of Section II of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement, to carry out the
National Irigation development
Master Plan referred to under
Part C. I ofthe Project.
7.01                          C                                           For purposes of Section 11.03 of  None
the General conditions, the
governor of Banco de
Mocambique is designated as
representative of the Borrower.
Schedule I                    C                                           Proceeds ofthe Credit -        Reallocation by
allocation of the amounts of the   amendment to the
Credit to each Category.      DCA.
Schedule 2                    CP                                          Description and objectives of the  One of the project
Project.                      components was
suspended.



22
Agreement
DCA Credit  Section               Covenant   Present       Original       Revised     Description of covenant        Conunents
No: IDA                                                   fliiin
21750                               Type       status     fulilllent     Fulfillmentl
Date           Date
Schedule 6, Part A            C                                         The Borrower shall appoint and   None
maintain during the execution of
the Project 2 Component
Coordinators: one for Parts A.
C.2 and C.3 ofthe project who
shall be a local economist posted
within SEC's Directorate of
Economics; and one for Part B of
the Project who shall be a local
economistlagricultural economist
and shall be AERU's Head.
Schedule 6, Part B            C                                         Each CC prepares an annual     None
work program in order to
organize and monitor progress in
Project implementation to be
consolidated and fumished to the
Association, for its review and
comments, not later than May I
of each year.
Schedule 6, Part C            C                                         Establish and maintain AERU    None
within MOA, reporting directly
to the Minister for Agriculture or
his/her designate.
Schedule 6, Part D            NC                                        The Sales and Trade Unit       Establishment of'
established within CM shall be   Sales and Trade
headed by a Marketing         Unit suspended.
Economist and shall be assisted
by a General Economist with
expenence in agroprocessing.
Schedule 6, Part F, I         C                                          MOA shall have responsibility    None
(a)                                                                     for the overall Project
implementation.
Schedule 6, Part F, I         C                                          SEC's Secretary, in coordination  None
(b)                                                                     with the Director-General of
CM, shall have overall
responsibility for the
implementation of Part A of the
Project.
Schedule 6, Part F, 1         C                                          A ERU's Head shall be         None
(c)                                                                     responsible for the
implementation of Part B of the
Project.
Schedule 6, Part F, I         C                                         The State Secretariat for      None.
(d)                                                                      Agricultural Hydraulics within
MOA shall supervise the
implementation of Part C. I of the
project, in coordination with the
NWD and MIE; SEC's Tech.
Directorate shall coordinate the
implementation of Part C.2 and
SEC's Directorate for Economics
shall coordinate the
implementation of Part C.3 of the
project.



23
Agreenient
DCA Credit  Section            Covenant  Present      Original      Revised    Description of covenant     Conuments
No: IDA
21750                            Type      status    fulfinnent    Fulfillment
Date          Date
Schedule 6, Part F,2        CP                                     (a) Schedule of actions to be  None.
carried out by the Borrower
during the first Project year.
Schedule 6, Part F,2        NC                                     (b) Schedule of actions to be
carried out by the Borrower
during the second Project year.
Status:      C      - Complied with
CD    - Compliance after Delay
NC    - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably short Time
CP    - Complied with Partially
NYD  - Not Yet Due
Covenant Class
1.           Accounts/audit
2.           Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3.           Flow and utilization of Project funds
4.           Counterpart funding
5.           Management aspects of the Project or of itsexecuting agency
6.           Environmental covenants
7.           Involuntary resettlement
8.           Indigenous people
9.           Monitoring, review and reporting
10.          Implementation
II.          Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12.          Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13.          Other



24
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title     Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Basically, there was compliance with the
applicable Bank Operational Manual
statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                 Planned             Revised        Actual'
project cycle
Weeks      US$       Weeks      US$    Weeks    US$
Preparation to
Appraisal         N/A        N/A        N/A       N/A       100.5    187,100
Appraisal         N/A        N/A        N/A       N/A       51.9     92,800
Negotiations
through Board
approval          N/A        N/A        N/A       N/A       6.5      19,000
Supervision       N/A       N/A        N/A        N/A      87.9      304,200
Completion                                                  9.8      30,500
TOTAL                      _                                256.6    633,600
I lncludes travel costs (direct costs only). N/A = Not available, not recorded in the FACT System.



25
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions8
Performance rating
Stage of                      Number                 Specialized    Implementation     Develop-
Project cycle       Month/         of      Days in     Staff skills       Status           ment        Types of
Year       persons    Field      Represented                       Objectives    Problems
Through appraisal    Sept, 1989        4         14      Ag, Cr, Ext           N/a             N/a
Appraisal through    Sept, 1990
Board approval
1. Supervision       July, 1991        2         12      Ag, Cr                 SHS
2. Supervision       Feb, 1992         2         11      Ag, Ext                S              HS
3. Supervision       July, 1992        2         10      Ag, Cr                 U               S            Proj
I_Mgmt, Sec
4. Supervision       Nov, 1992         1         17      Ag                     U               S            Proj
Mgmt
5. Supervision       Mar, 1993         5         20      Ag, Cr, Ext,           S               S
._______   _______    Org, Fin
6. Supervision       June, 1993        1         18      Ag                     S               S
7. Supervision       April 1994        3         18      Ec, Ext                S               S
8. Supervision       Feb 1995          7         26      Ec, Env, ExA           S               S            Fin
Ag, Land, Ops
9. Supervision       Nov, 1995         4         14      Ec, PSD, Ops,          S               S            Fin
Ag
10. Supervision      Mar, 1996         3         18      Ec, Ag, Ext            U               S            Fin
Completion           May, 1998         2         14      Ec, Cashew Sp          U               U
Abbreviations:
Ag = Agriculturalist
Cr = Credit Specialist
Ext = Extension Specialist
Ec = Economist
Org= Organizational Management
Fin = Financial Management Specialist
Land = Land Management Specialist
PSD = Public Service Development Specialist
Ops  Operations Analyst
Sp = Specialist
Proj Mgmt = Project Management
Sec = Security
Fin = Financial - Counterpart funds
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
8In addition to these official Supervision Missions, informal visits (which resulted in the issuance of 7 portfolio status updates) were
carried out by the Task Manager.



26
Appendix A
Page 1 of 9
AIDE MEMOIRE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
(Cr. 2175-MZ)
1.   A mission9 from the FAO Investmwent Centre visited Mozambique from 5t' May to
19h May 1998 to prepare the Implementation Completion Report for the Agricultural
Rehabilitation and Development Project (ARDP) under the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program. The mission held discussions wvith Bank and Government of Mozarnbique staff
associated with the project, including the Secretary of State for Cashew, the Project Management
Unit established under the project to coordinate the implementation of the project, the Department
of Agricultural Economics in the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, the National Agricultural
Research tnstitute and the Banco Populare de Desenvolvemento. Information was also gained
from field visits to the provinces of Inhambane and Gaza, where discussions were held with staff
of Provincial Directorates of Agriculture and the Provincial Services for Cashew. The mission
visited cashew growing areas in these provinces, the Nhakuzte, Chizavane and Inhamusa
nurseries, Nhacoongo experimental station, and the Ricatla Research station in Maputo province.
2.   A wrap-up discussion was held on 19th May with the Secretary of State for Cashew, the
Department of Agricultural Economics, and staff from the various Government agencies that had
been involved in the implementation of the project. This aide-memoire is a record of the missions
findings and conclusions that were discussed at that meeting.
3 .   The mission would like to record its appreciation for the cooperation and assistance shown
by all officers and staff of the Government with whom the mission has been working.
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Objectives
4.   The main objectives of the project were to support the Government's efforts to assist the
family subsector to reverse the decline in cashewnut production and exportation through selective
rehabilitation of physical infrastructure and services, the provision of technical assistance, and the
implementation of policy reforms in pricing and marketing. The project was also to contribute to
the GOM's stated policy of restructuring state and commercial agricultural enterprises, and
support basic studies and surveys which were to strengthen and guide development of the
agricultural sector once the security situation had improved. These objectives were to be achieved
through three main project interventions: (a) rehabilitation and development of the cashew
subsector; (b) assistance to state and commercial agricultural enterprises; and (c) specific studies
and surveys.
5.   The statement of objectives in themselves gave no clear indicators of project performance
which was to be achieved. However, for the cashew component, the SAR indicated that the
9 Tim Lamrock, Economist/Mission Leader (FAO/CP) and lan Duncan, Cashew Industry Specialist (Consultant).



27
expected benefit targets of the project were annual incremental production of 10,000 tons of
cashew, 1,200 tons of maize and 1,000 tons of beans from project beneficiaries in the project
areas located in Inhambane and Gaza provinces. The project beneficiaries were about 50,000
small-scale family farmers and 100 new commercial producers of cashew, planting some .14,000
ha and 1,600 ha of new trees respectively by the eighth year of the project.
Evaluation of Objectives
6.    The cashew industry, once the largest in the world in production terms and the single
highest export earner for Mozambique, had fallen to about 20% of former production levels. The
potential impact of rehabilitating the industry on farm families returning to their farms after years
of insecurity, on factory employment and on the country's trade balance, was high. The objectives
were well placed within the context of the economic rehabilitation priorities for the agricultural
sector that were identified in the Agricultural Sector Survey completed as a forerunner exercise to
the preparation of the project. The project was consistent with activities to be financed under
IDA's Second and Third Rehabilitation Credits, and other IDA-supported projects in the industrial
sector. The project's objectives also complemented those of the Cashew Rehabilitation Project in
northern Mozambique, supported by the African Development Bank.
7.    The overall implementing responsibility lay with the Ministry of Agriculture, specifically
with the Department of Agricultural Economics (DEA). The responsibility for the cashew
subsector components was to be assumed by a component coordinating unit established in the
office of the Secretary of State for Cashew (SEC). Although the SAR stated that the project was
designed in a simple but effective fashion to ensure simplicity in implementation, the
implementation of the project was complex in that it involved many implementing agencies for
project activities10, and relied on other projects, the successful results of which were necessary
conditions for the project to achieve its own objectives.
Evaluation of Project Rationale and Design
8.    During over 15 years of insecurity, no replanting of trees took place. A significant number
of the trees had been lost through fire or completely abandoned. Reduced numbers and the low
productivity of the remaining ageing trees were considered to the main problems to be tackled
through a major replanting program. The strategy was to propagate new planting material from a
selection of mother trees, both in nurseries, and by way of an extension program to teach farmers
to identify better performing mother trees and to graft scions from these trees onto seedlings. This
process did not involve a research program for genetic improvement. While oidium was known to
be present, this was considered not to be the major production constraint, and therefore a strategy
of supplying chemical sprays to combat oidium was not considered appropriate. In addition,
genetic improvement was not considered to be a priority and therefore the project placed low
priority on research. The activities of the project included the formulation of a research strategy
for the longer term, but there was no budget for the consequent research activities.
I0 mplementation was to involve the following agencies: SEC Directorate and the Provincial Services for Cashew (SPCs), National
Directorate for Rural Development (DNDR) and the Provincial Directorates of Agriculture (DPAs), Caju de Mocambique (CM), the
National Agricultural Research Institute (INEA), the Bank of Mozambique (BM) and the Banco Populare de Desenvolvemento
(BDP), the Agricultural Enterprise Restrncturing Unit (UREA) to be established in DEA and the State Secretariat for Agricultural
Hydraulics (SEHA). The project's research activities were to complement the work being undertaken by the Cashew Development
Project, financed by the African Development Fund in northem provinces, and the credit for the small family-sector farmers was to be
provided by the Agricultural and Rural Development Credit Fund (CC ADR).



28
9.    The rationale of the project was based on the argument that the main production problem in
Mozambique was the age of the trees, and the strategy to reverse the decline in production was to
quickly produce and plant a large number of new grafted trees with no genetic improvement. This
strategy would have led to some production recovery but the trees would have had the same nut
quality and susceptibility to disease and ]pests as before. This strategy resulted in lost
opportunities to make a start to restore, not only the production of raw nuts, but the international
competitiveness of the domestic processing industry as explained below.
10.  There is no reliable data on the productive life of cashew trees as no scientific studies have
been done. There is empirical evidence that cashew trees are still producing well at 50 years,
while in other situations trees may go into a yield decline after 25 years. It is therefore more than
reasonable to conclude that other factors, i.e. environmental conditions, tree management, level of
pest and disease attack may be more important in determining the productive life than simply the
age of the tree. It is however recognized that age must at some time become a factor.
11.  Second, at the commencement of the project in 1990, there was little useful data available
on the cashew selections in Mozambique and the project target was to produce 1.5 million new
trees in eight years. In these circumstances, the only real selection possible would have been an
initial mother tree selection based on a single assessment of high total yield and possibly large nut
size. This type of assessment could lead lto erroneous conclusions - total yield is as much related
to environment, tree condition, and management as it is to genetics, while performance in one
year could vary for a number of reasons. In addition, nut size is usually inversely related to kemel
size and kernel recovery rates, and selection on nut size only could lead to reductions in these
characteristics. The highly desirable characteristics, large kernel size, high kernel recovery rates
and high yield, are exhibited in a very small proportion of the gene pool, and it is these
characteristics that are crucial for improving the financial results for both farmers and the
processing industry."1
12.  Oidium was recognized as a factor in Mozambique (and Tanzania) and therefore
addressing this problem in both the short and long term was important. The approach taken in
Tanzania was to supply chemicals (sulphur) and spraying equipment. The mission recognizes the
implications for soil acidity in this approach, but some trade-off with quick production response
would need to be taken into consideration.
13.  Therefore, the planting program using existing genetic material was appropriate as a short-
term measure to start the recovery process. However, it needed to be implemented in conjunction
with a longer-term strategy for genetic improvement both for improved productivity and nut
quality, and for oidium resistance. In addition, the project design should have also recognized the
immediate production losses from oidium, and included a short term strategy against oidium to
bridge the intervening period.
14.  The conclusion is that the planting of better trees, rather than the planting of poorer trees
faster, would not only have achieved the main objective of reversing the decline in production but
would also have contributed substantially to the sustainability of the domestic processing
industry.
An improvement in kemel size from W320 to W240 together with improvement in kernel recovery from say 22% to 28% would
improve crop unit values to farmers by 30% and to processors by 30 to 35% in higher values and lowerunit processing costs.



29
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
15. Production of raw nuts in the project area was variable over the project period, and this is
attributable to many influences, resulting both from the project itself and from external factors.
Province   | 90/91  [91/92  | 92/93    93/94    94/95      95/96
Inhambane    3,283    3206    915      38      5710    8912
Gaza      7,065    7184     1707     124     8365    10231
Total     10,348   10,390    2,622   162    16,075   19,143
16. Drought during 1992 to 1994, particularly severe in the southern regions of Mozambique,
was a major influence on production levels during the project. In addition, market reforms had a
significant impact. At the end of the project, while the marketing of cashew had not been fully
liberalized, major steps had been taken by the Government in this direction. An export tax on raw
nuts (14% of value) to protect the processing industry remained. Starting in 1994, an improved
share of export values was reflected in farm gate prices and this obviously had an impact on
collection and management. Another contributing factor leading to increased collections of nuts
was the improving security situation which enabled farmers to return to their farms and permitted
access to the trees for harvest and better management. However, the planting program, the key to
the development strategy behind the extension and nursery components, was unsuccessful and did
not contribute to increased production. Also, no commercial farms were established.
17. It is not possible to identify the production changes attributable to each of the above
factors. While the project financed technical assistance to give guidance on pricing and marketing
policy, specific reforns were not conditionalities of the projectI2 Since the main project benefits
were to come from the planting program, which was the main investment to be made by the
project, the project must be considered to have failed to achieve its production objectives.
18.  Due to major changes of both Government and Bank policy conceming state-owned
enterprises, the component to support these was drastically redesigned (see below). This, in
effect, removed this objective from the project.
19. The results of the specific studies contributed to the understanding and guidance of the
development of the sector.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
General
20. The project was appraised in August 1990, signed in September 1990 and became effective
in April 1991.
12 From 1995, the issue of processing industry protection became a major point of discussion between the Govemment, the Bank, and
the private sector participants in the industry.



30
21.  Two major policy changes forced the redesign of the components for the assistance to the
cashew processing industry. First, with the change in Bank policy not to assist state-owned
enterprises which became effective in 1'992, the credit component for factory rehabilitation and
the technical assistance component for CM were frozen, with the privatization strategy adopted
by the Government, the role of UREA was redesigned to provide a technical asset valuation
function as an input into the privatization process.
22.  The project suffered significant start-up delays. Following effectiveness in 1991, little
implementation progress was made until 1993. This can be attributed to several factors. Since this
was the first IDA operation in the agriculture sector, there was no experience with Bank
operations and a general unawareness of procedures. The security situation in the provinces.
while improving, impeded field work. While farm families were retuming to their previous farms,
time was needed for them to build confidence that the peace would hold permanently, an essential
element of their taking a long-term view on investing effort and money into on-farm
rehabilitation. After such a protracted period of insecurity, it was understandable that significant
time would be required to rebuild Government services. Staff were poorly paid and hence poorly
motivated. In addition, the mechanisms of coordinating many agencies proved to be difficult.
23.  The main period of project activity took place during 1994 and 1995 when significant
progress was made in the extension activities and technical assistance. Most of the civil works on
the nurseries took place during 1995. However, the availability of counterpart funds became an
impediment to project activities in 1994/5 and continued during the remained of the project's life.
24.  The amount originally allocated for civil works in the project was SDR 160.000
(US$ 250,000 equivalent). The amount actually disbursed under this category was SDR 462,000
(US$ 650,000 equivalent). While the construction of the houses for extension workers was
generally completed, some buildings at the nurseries and the experimental station were not
completed. None of the irrigation systems was completed, nor the civil works at Ricatla.
25.  Following qualified audit reports of project accounts in late 1995, the Bank placed
conditions on further disbursements under the project. As part of an IDA portfolio restructuring
exercise, steps were taken during 1996 to redesign the activities and credit agreements of both
ARDP and the Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and Development Project (ASRDP) with the
purpose of cancelling the undisbursed balance of the ARDP credit, transferring the extension and
nursery activities to ASRDP, and then to close the ARDP credit. The restructuring was approved
by the Bank in May 1997 and the ARDP credit was closed on June 6, 1997. An amount of SDR
7.5 million of the original SDR 11.0 million (63%) was cancelled.
CASHEW SUBSECTOR REHABILITATION
Extension
26.  Extension was the highest cost activity to be supported by the project. The activities
centered on the development of an extension network in the provinces where previously none
existed, and training and equipping field extension workers to advise on an integrated package of
cashew and food crops technology messages. Designed to be a pilot program, the project
achieved in establishing a network in Massinga, Morrumbene, Hormoine and Panda districts in
Inhambane and Xai-Xai, Mandlakare, Chibuto and Macia in Gaza, introducing a methodology
based on the training and visit system covering both food crops and cashew. In addition, the
network extended to four more non-cashew districts.



31
27.  The extension system was designed to be multi-disciplinary and involved the cross training
of extension workers. The training program got under way in 1993/94 and over 130 extension
workers were trained. There were cashew specialists from the Provincial Service for Cashew
(SCP) to provide technical back-up. Some start-up coordination problems existed between SCP
and DPA staff.
28.  The extension messages on food crops were simple, production oriented techniques on
planting, spacing, fertilizer application and pest management. For cashew, the main messages
included selection criteria of trees, grafting techniques and oidium. There were some cultural
practices but most farmers were already aware of the need for bush clearing. Only a small
proportion of farmers were successfully taught to graft, not surprising as the technique was not
mastered in Mozambique until the introduction of softwood grafting in 1995. It was also
proposed that the farmers organize communal nurseries to produce their grafted trees, but these
did not eventuate.
29.  The main constraint was the scarcity and unpredictability of counterpart funds and, later,
salaries for extension staff, although Gaza suffered less in this area. Farmers took considerable
time to build up trust in the Field Extension Workers and confidence in the lasting peace. In
circumstances where visits and field activities were postponed or cancelled due to lack of funds,
this process was set back. The cessation of funds from the project starting in 1996 resulted in a
reduction in extension staff of about 50% and a run down of the function. The functions were
taken over by ASRDP when the project closed, but are not yet operational.
30.  The extension service is considered to have been reasonably successful in its training and
capacity building activities in relation to food crops; it was less successful in cashew.
Research
31.  The research component involved the preparation of the National Cashew Research Plan
(NCRP) and for some rehabilitation of the Ricatla Research Station. Some general research
objectives were set out, but overall this component was given low priority in the project's design.
No funding was allocated, either for the preparation of the NCRP, or for any subsequent agreed
research programs.
32.  There were considerable delays in staring the formulation of the NCRP and in September
1993, a draft version of this plan was produced by an external consultant (Milhiero). Following
the completion of the draft NCRP report it remained for Instituto National de Investigacion
Agronomico (INEA) and Secretary of State for Cashew (SEC) to jointly review it and provide an
approved final version to the Bank. By the closure of the project, a final version had not been
agreed.
33.  The government had previously allocated all research functions to INEA, however this
organization had virtually no specific research expertise in cashew. All available information on
cashew was located in SEC, but these resources did not include any technical expertise. Clearly,
the production of the final version of NCRP would, at the very minimum require the close
collaboration of SEC and INEA, and poor coordination of activities was a factor that affected
this, and other project activities.
34.  In addition the commencement of the Cashew Rehabilitation Project (CRP) in 1991,
funded by the ADF, may have contributed to some lack of urgency in pursuing the research
activities - 'after all, some things were happening'. The CRP project had similar (butmore
limited) research objectives but the scope of operati-Tns was restricted to northem provinces.



32
While CRP started in 1991, little progress was achieved before 1995 because of apparent
difficulties in vegetative propagation.
Cashew Nurseries
35.  Three nurseries and one experimental station were to be rehabilitated (Nhacoongo and
Inhamussua in Inhambane province and Chizavane and Nhacutze in Gaza province). The
performance targets set for these nurseries was to produce approximately 1.5 million grafted trees
for both the small farmer and commercial sector over the eight-year project life. They were also
to assist small farmers with grafting training.
36.  The stated research priorities - vegetative propagation and selection resistance - were very
much an operational part of selecting and producing new cashew trees and therefore had close
relationship with the function of the nursery component. In the event the failure to achieve
satisfactory success rates in vegetative propagation method was a major factor in retarding
progress in the nursery component. It appears that the grafting issue was only resolved in 1995 by
assistance from the CRP project in Nampula when the soft wood grafting technique was
introduced.
37.  The staff at some nurseries indicated that a few "superior" mother trees had been
identified13. Only a negligible number of new grafted trees were produced and planted.
38.  The main achievement was some grafting training to farmers (in conjunction with
extension service), however this grafting experience was of little use without the right selected
genetic material to plant.
39.  The major factors that affected the performance of these nurseries were:
The nursery program to select and produce 1.5 million trees in eight years was unrealistic
considering the starting point. The staff at the nurseries had no previous experience at this
scale of operation and most importantly, they were unable to achieve any reasonable
success at grafting until 1995.
In general the nurseries were also significantly involved with other crops and it is
possible that attention to these may have detracted from the cashew effort.
*     The nursery rehabilitations were not completed.
Investment Credit
40.  The project was to extend investment credit for on-farm development, marketing and
factory rehabilitation on commercial terms through participating financial institutions
(commercial banks). BPD, the major lender to the rural sector, was to be the manager of the line
of credit.
41.  This component failed totally as no loans were advanced. Initially, there were delays in
starting this component due to delays in the signing of the participation agreement between the
Bank of Mozambique and BDP, the terms of which were the subject of protracted negotiation. As
13 At Nhacutse sone 36 mother trees were identified locally but no details were available on these trees



33
mentioned above, support to factory rehabilitation through this component became contrary to
Bank policy after 1992, and no loans were made for this purpose. The main obstacle for potential
borrowers of production and marketing credit was the requirement to provide adequate collateral
to BPD since it was to take the full commercial risk. Attempts by BPD to negotiate guarantee or
indemnity arrangements with the Ministry of Finance were not successful. Some 18 proposals
were put forward to BPD but were all rejected on these grounds.
42.  The design of the credit component was based on unsupported or incorrect assumptions.
The project assumed that a new group of commercial farmers growing cashew would emerge
during the first four years of the project. For this to happen, investors would have needed to have
waited for the reforms in marketing and pricing to take effect (financial returns to producers
under price fixing were initially too low to justify new investment), to have proved planting
material available, and to provide security to BPD. There was no knowledge of commercial-scale
cashew production at the time. Increases in producer prices began to take effect only during 1995
and by the time the project activities were suspended, land tenure, ownership and transfer issues
remained uncertain following the war. Land, being state owned, was not suitable security and
other collateral was required by BPD.
43.  The production base for the cashew industry was the small-scale family farm and one
group of the project's beneficiaries was identified as 50,000 small-scale farmers that would
require investment credit for planting new trees to achieve increased production. Small farmers
were not catered for under the credit component, but the project relied on the operations of the
CCADR to provide the necessary smallholder credit. This fund, established in 1988 and
administered by BPD, was designed to provide subsidized credit for rural investment by veteran
soldiers, retumees, cooperatives and family producers, producers of cereals and others affected by
natural calamities. However, by June 1989, over 70% of the portfolio had been directed towards
state enterprises and other politically influenced lending. During the remainder of 1989 and 1990,
the fund was fully disbursed and the repayment experience was unsatisfactory. Therefore, by the
beginning of the project, this was unavailable for small cashew farmers as the project design has
anticipated. In 1993, the Bank proposed that the project provide credit for farrners groups along
the lines of the credit component of ASRDP. A survey to assess this was undertaken and action
was taken by BDP to promote the group approach. In 1995, with still no credit advanced, the
Bank proposed that NGOs should be involved in the formation of farmer groups for credit for
planting new trees. The group approach failed, not only on the issue of adequate security, but also
due to the wariness of farmers, stemming from their negative experiences of groups and
cooperatives during socialist times, to formn new financially-based groups of any kind. Underlying
these factors, the nurseries did not produce planting material for sale that could have been
financed under the credit scheme.
Institutional Development
44.  The support to Caju de Mocambique was cancelled due to the policy changes mentioned
above. In SEC, local and intemational consultants provided valuable assistance in financial
control, monitoring and evaluation and pricing policy analysis. With moves to close the SEC, this
capacity has been transferred to the DEA.
AGRICULTURAL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING
45. Following the policy changes concerning state-owned enterprises mentioned above, the
role of the UREA was changed to that of evaluating agricultural state enterprises and clearing



34
legal issues. Starting effective operations in 1993, 71 enterprises were to be assessed over three
years. Dealing with small to medium scale enterprises, the results of the work were to be passed
on to the Valuation and Sale Commission (CNAA) within the Ministry of Agriculture. Larger
enterprises were handled directly by the Unit for Enterprise Restructuring in the Ministry. of
Finance.
46.  A review of UREA's performance and constraints undertaken by the Bank in February,
1995 found that the Unit had met not the achievement levels (as defined by the number of
enterprises assessed), and had cost more that a similar unit in the Ministry of Industry and
Energy. The privatization process for agricultural enterprises was facing greater legal issues that
other sector enterprises (related to land tenure) and design impediments in the privatization
process itself. The Bank therefore decided to discontinue support to the Unit. The Unit was closed
and its capacity was absorbed into the CNAA.
OTHER SURVEYS AND STUDIES
Cashew Subsector
47.  The project financed two studies. The National Cashew Tree Population Survey, completed
in 1994, was the first such study undert:aken since before independence, and provided valuable
data on the age condition and location of all cashew plantings. This is an important document and
has been used, and still being referred to, in subsector planning.
48.  The National Cashew Development Master Plan was prepared to provide a longer-term
planning perspective, as well as integrating other activities in the subsector. There were two
versions'4 but at the time of closing of the project, a master plan had not been formally adopted
by Government.
Irrigation Master Plan
49.  This major study concentrated on the river basins in the southem and central regions of the
country. This was in response to the higher incidence of drought experienced there, and were the
areas that were more accessible during the time of the study, 1993. In the light of policy changes
towards a market-based economy following the study, the investment recommendations need to
be revisited the increased participation and responsibility of users for operation and maintenance
needs to be incorporated. The study was used as base data for the preparation of a small scale
irrigation project to be financed by ADB, and the FAO Special program for Food Security. Both
activities are now included in PROAGRI.
D. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
50.  The positive outcomes of the project were:
i      The establishment of extension networks in selected districts that made a start to restoring
Government agricultural services after the war;
*      The contributions made to sector and subsector planning by the surveys and studies;
14 Olivares - "Cashew Production Development Strategy - 1996-2005", 1995 and Mann "Cashew Development Master Plan 1996-
2006'.



35
*      The contribution that the project made to the analysis behind the reforms of the
processing and marketing of cashew.
51.  However, the mission considers that the project has an unsatisfactory outcome for the
following reasons:
*     poor project design;
*      delayed and limited implementation progress;
*      incomplete civil works;
*      financial irregularities;
*      non-achievement of production objectives;
*      limited progress in tackling the short and long term development constraints that affect
both producers and processors.
52.  The project achieved minimal progress towards the primary objectives of reversing the
decline in production in the cashew subsector.
Maputo, 19th May, 1998
1...



36
Appendix B
GOVERNMENT'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
(Cr. 2175-MOZ)
(Translation from Portuguese into English)
I.        PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.  Final report of the activities of the Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project
(PRDA), from September 1990 to December 1995.
2.   The Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project (PRDA) is a project under the
Credit Agreement #2175-MOZ, signed September 24,1990, between the Government of
Mozambique and the International Development Association (IDA). Its value is 11.9 million of
Special Drawing Rights (SDRs), which at the time was the equivalent of US$15.4 million.
3.   The PRDA was an 8-year project expected to close on December 31 of 1998. However,
as part of the restructuring of the Mozambique agricultural portfolio in 1996, its closure was
anticipated.
4.   The PRDA project would cover a total of 11 districts, four in Gaza Province (Manjacaze,
Chibuto, Bilene and Xai-Xai), and 7 in Inhambane Province (Massinga, Morrumbene, Maxixe,
Homoine, Jangamo, Inharrime and Zavala). Later, at the time of project implementation, Panda
replaced the Maxixe District.
5.  In all districts above mentioned, rural extension systems were installed, under the
guidance of the Dire,do Nacional de Extensdo Rural (National Directorate of Rural Extension)
(previously National Directorate of Rural Development). At the same time, rehabilitation works
were also carried out.
6.   After the closing of the IFAD project and the Pre-Program, the PRDA assumed
responsibility for the districts of Ch6kwe, in Gaza and Inhambane, in the province of the same
name. It thus covered a total of 13 districts, 8 in Inhambane and S in Gaza.
7.   The Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project had the following main
objectives:
* Reverse the decline of cashew production and commercialization, and reestablish in the
short term, the previous export levels.
* Transform small and medium state and commercial agricultural companies into efficient and
economically viable institutions.
*  Strengthen the capabilities of the Borrower to formulate and implement growth strategies for
the cashew and irrigation subsectors.



37
8.   To reach the above mentioned objectives, the project is subdivided into the following
parts:
PART A: CASHEW SUB-SECTOR REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT
1) Strengthening of Agricultural Services:
a) Reinforcement of the extension services of the Ministerio de Agricultura e Pescas
(Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries) through:
(i) Provision of basic training, transportation, technical and administrative
support to rural extension workers;
(ii) Design and implementation of an extension training program;
(iii) Creation, at district levels, of farmers' groups;
(iv) Integration of extension services established by the project in Gaza and
Inhambane with the ongoing extension activities financed by other
organizations in the referred provinces.
It was expected that the number of field extensionists would reach 200.
b) Cashew Nurseries:
(i) Installation of small-scale cashew nurseries: two in Inhambane Province
(in the Nhacoongo Experimental Station) and one in Gaza Province;
(ii) Strengthening and rehabilitation of the existing buildings and
infrastructures at the Nhacoongo Experimental Station, in Inhambane
Province.
The goal was to establish during the eight years of the project, 14,000 hectares of new cashew
trees in family land and 1,600 hectares in commercial plantations.
The Nursery Component is coordinated with the Secretaria de Estado do Cajzi (Cashew State
Secretariat).
2) Provision of Investment Credit:
Financing specific sub-projects through sub-loans to eligible beneficiaries.
The total value of the credit was of US$4.7 million, distributed as follows: 1.7 million for
commercial farmers, businessmen and transporters involved in commercialization, and US$3.0
million for the rehabilitation of cashew processing plants in Xai-Xai, Inhambane and Machava,
located respectively in the Provinces of Gaza, Inhambane and Maputo.



38
The Credit Component was coordinated by the Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento (People's
Development Bank).
3) Institutional Development:
a) Secretaria de Estado do Caju (SEC) (Cashew State Secretariat):
(i) Strengthening of the capacity for price analysis of SEC, through
formulation and implementation of a price system to the producer and
manufacturer;
(ii) Strengthening of the technical capabilities of SEC's accounting and cost
control systems;
(iii) Provision for local and external training of SEC staff on price policies,
grafting techniques, clonal propagation, cashew cultivation, extension
methodology, management and administration;
(iv) Design and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system
including management information and impact evaluation systems.
b) Caju de Mo9ambique (State Cashew Enterprise)
(i) Establishment of a commerce and Sales Unit inside Caju de MoAambique;
(ii) Strengthening of the management capabilities, cashew processing,
industrial training, financial accounting, procurement procedures and
equipment installation of Caju de Mo9ambique;
(iii) Training provision for Caju de Mogambique staff in mechanical
engineering, commercialization, business administration, industrial operation
and maintenance procedures;
(iv) Design and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system,
including management information and impact evaluation systems.
4) Surveys
Perform survey evaluations for:
(a) Performance review, functions and long term objectives of Cajui de Mo ambique
(State Cashew Enterprise);
(b) Assess women's agricu"ltural productivity.



39
PART B: ASSISTANCE TO AGRICULTURAL ENTERPRISES
1) Prepare a policy and investment strategy plan for the restructuring of agricultural
enterprises;
2) Establish an Agricultural Enterprises Restructuring Unit;
3) Technical assistance for the implementation of an individual enterprises restructuring
plan;
4) Surveys and studies on agricultural subsector companies;
5) Training for staff from industrial companies on general administration, organizational
development, human resources administration, accounting, information planning, planning
and investment promotion;
6) Design and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system, including the
establishment of management informnation and impact evaluation systems.
PART C: STUDIES AND SURVEYS
1) Preparation of the Plano Diretor Nacional de Desenvolvimento de Irrigag4o (Irrigation
Master Plan);
2) National Cashew Tree Population Survey
3) Preparation of the Plano Diretor Nacional de Desenvolvimento do Caju  (National
Cashew Development Master Plan)



40
II.       ACTIVITIES ACCOMPLISHED BY THE PROJECT
9.   During its duration, the PRDA carried out many activities in the Provinces of Gaza and
Inhambane.. Most of them concern the Rural Extension, Nurseries, and Institutional
Development Components, and only a few the Credit Component. As for the Agricultural
Research Component, little was accomplished beyond the preparation of the Plano Nacional
Director de Investigacdo do Cajut iNational Cashew Research Plan) since it has not yet been
approved.
10. The main activities performed by each Component is detailed below.
1. RURAL EXTENSION
Recruitment of extensionists and formation of extension networks
11. PRDA began forming extension networks at the end of 1992, with the recruitment of 25
extensionists in Inhambane Province, who were distributed throughout the districts of Massinga,
Morrumbene, Panda and Homoine. Only at the end of 1993 were the first 24 extensionists hired
by the project for the Province of Gaza, covering the districts of Manjacaze, Chibuto, Bilene and
Xai-Xai.
12. In 1994, 24 new extensionists were admitted in the province of Inhambane, reinforcing the
networks already in place and developing others in the districts of Jangamo, Inharrime and
Zavala. Finally, in August 1995, the last 21 extensionists were hired for the same Province.
13. Besides the above mentioned extensionists, who were selected through a pre-admission
course, another 66 extensionists were also hired, through absorption, by PRDA, of the networks
which were part of the WFAD-funded Second Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development
Project and the UNDP-funded Pre-Program, in the districts of Ch6kwe and Xai-Xai (in Gaza
Province) and Inhambane (in the province of the same name).
14. The table below indicates the evolution of the recruiting process of extensionists in Gaza
and Inhambane, and gives emphasis to the fact that, in 1995, the project had only 127
extensionists (64 in Gaza and 63 in Inhambane). This number corresponds to 64% of the 200
extensionists expected by the "Staff Appraisal Report". Some extensionists were directed to
other tasks by the Direc,ces Provinciais da Agricultura e Pescas (Provincial Directorates of
Agriculture and Fisheries), while others abandoned theirjobs, due to financial difficulties that
affected the PRDA, which translated into a systematic lack of salaries and working materials..
#~~~~~~ 0
Gaza    I'bane
1992                                     _ _24                       24
1993                                          25                     25
1994                                                    24           24
1995                                                    21           21



41
Integrated from IFAD and Pre-Program                 5 1       1 S             66
(1995)
Extensionists that received other work or left       12        21              33
their jobs
Extensionists in December 1995                       64        63             127
Rural Extension System Coverage
15.  The extension network is composed of 127 extensionists, 63 of Inhambane Province and
64 from Gaza. This contingent assists directly, 7,989 farms in the first province and 7,855 in the
second, making a total of 15,844, which corresponds to 16% of what has been programmed by
the project.
Farrners     Contact Farmers     Fanner  Assisted  Administ-  Extens-  Farners
Directly                         Groups  Village  rative    ionists  per
Assisted                                          Posts             Extension
Assisted          -ist
Men   Women  Total
Inhambane        7,989    232      108    305     166       52        15      63       127
Province
Massinga          450      34       32     66      16        2         2       3       150
Morrumbene       1,222     26        9     35      22        8         2       8       153
Panda              863     30        5     35      30        4         2       5       173
Homoine          1,349     24              24      24        8         1      10       135
Jangamo            648     18        1     19      19        6         2       9        72
Inharrime          629     47              47      51        7         2       9        70
Zavala             638      6               6       4       103               11        58
Inhambane        2,190     47       61    108        -       7          1      8       274
Gaza             7,855    228      182    410    335        57        22      64       123
Province
Manjacaze          840     20        8     28      84       12         5      12        70
Chibuto          2,200     70      110    180      75       14         5      16       138
Bilene           1,960     31       24     55      98       17         5       9       218
Xai-Xai            598     11       15     26      16        8         4      18        33
Ch6kwe           2,257     96       25    121      62        6         3       9       251
......._               __....



42
Development and Capacity
m         ~~~~Gaza  lI'bane  Toa       Gaza            TobneBtal
Agro-Forestry          Extensia,nists     I1                  1     34              34
Agrotechnical & Cashew                     3       2         .      853   136
Grafting               Extensionists
CDRs Preparation       Extensionists       I                  2     20       16    36
Soil Conservation      Extensionists       I        -         1     30        -    30
Rapid Rural Appraisal    Extensionists     I        -         5     25        -    25
Cashew Grafting        Extens/Fanner       2       3          5     85       55   140
Compost Manufacture    Extensionists       2        -         2     38        -    38
Training of Trainers   Supervisors         1       1          2       1       2      3
Monitoring & Evaluation  Extensionists     1        1         2      14      15    29
Seed Multiplication    Extensionists       I        -         1     40        -    40
Supervision & Planning   Supervisors       I        -         1      8        -      8
Pre-admission          Extensionists                  . 3     4     26       70    96
Refresher courses/ext.    Extensionists    2       2          4     89       98   187
Refresher courses/sup.   Supervisors       3        1         4     45       40    85
REPETE                 Extens/Faer         -                  1     25       25    50
Animal Traction        Extensionists       I1                         6              6
2.   NURSERIES
16. As previously mentioned, three cashew nurseries were anticipated for the Nurseries
Component: two in Inhambane Province (one at the Nhacoongo Experimental Station and
another in Rio das Pedras), and one in Gaza Province (Nhacutse).
17. Most of the rehabilitation work was completed at the Nhacoongo Nursery, but others were
abandoned at the end of project.
18.  The main objective of these nurseries was the production of better quality plants, obtained
from vegetative material obtained from selected plants.
19. In 1995, the Rio das Pedras Nursery was replaced by the Inhamussa Nursery, which
already had better conditions, created by another project, for plant production. In the districts
covered by the project, cashew seedlings were produced in other public nurseries and
community nurseries were created, involving some farmers and their families.
20. Nonetheless, all the activities carried out by these nurseries were well below expectation.
They did not produce the desired imnpact due to the ARDP's chronic inability to provide the
necessary materials on time and in sufficient quantity for the production of seedlings and
grafting material. For these reasons, the small number of plants that were produced were
distributed without having been grafted.



43
21.  In 1994, the project hired a Cashew Specialist to help the DPAPs of Gaza and nhambane
to produce improved cashew seedlings, which would be distributed to the farmers. However,
the graftings done by him were not successful.
22. Below you will find the almost insignificant contribution, by the project, to the
quantitative increase of the cashew plantings in the Provinces of Gaza and Inhambane.
Public Nurseries      4,932
Nhacutse              2,761
Chizavane             2,171
Communal Nurseries  2,500
23. The main activity performed in the area of Nurseries was the building and infrastructure
rehabilitation of the Nhacoongo Nursery, in the province of Inhambane, and the Nhacutse
Nursery, in Gaza Province.
24. In Nhacoongo the following works were performed by two local companies, Construtora
Integral de Inhambane and the Brigada de Aritifices de Constru9do Civil de Inhambane,
respectively:
1. Construction of a warehouse for     Finished
agricultural products
2. Construction of an office            Finished
3. Construction of a warehouse for fertilizers  Finished
and pesticides
4. Construction of a guard house        Finished
5. Construction of a house for the generator   To be finished
6. Rehabilitation of a water well       Finished
7. Rehabilitation of house Type 3       Finished
8. Consttuction of two houses Type 2    Finished
9. Construction of a laboratory         Finished
IO. Construction of a threshing floor  _ _Finished
I11. Construction of a water deposit   Finished
12. Construction of a cesspool         Finished
13 . Rehabilitation of a house Type 4  Finished
25.  It is important to mention that the infrastructure of works completed refer to the years
1994 and 1995. They are not in use yet, except the residences, which are already occupied.
26.  Besides these works based on an initial contract, additional works have been performed in
the same Nhacoongo Nursery, with financial resources that were destined for the construction of



44
a house for a motorized pump, which was canceled since it was decided to purchase an electric
pump instead.
1. Shed rehabilitation                Finished
2. Rehabilitation of a ramp for car repairs  Finished
3. Rehabilitation of bathhouses       Finished
4. Rehabilitation of a house Type I   Finished
27. The following works were performed by Construtora Integral de Gaza and Construtora
de Regadios do Limpopo in the Nhacutse Nursery, in the Gaza Province:
1. Constrction of residence Type 2 (66 m2)   To be completed
2. Construction of a raised water reservoir (1  To be completed
m3)
3. Construction of warehouse (32 m=)  Completed
4. Rehabilitation of residence Type 1 (32 mi), Completed
with a threshing floor (19 m2)
5. Construction of house for the motor pump   Completed
(6 m2)
6. Rehabilitation of house Type 3     To be completed
3. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
28.  This Component was one of the least successful. Part of its activities was performed
empirically by the Servi!Vos Provinciais do Caju, and consisted in a clone search that allowed for
the selection of some cashew plants, according to certain criteria, such as its annual productivity
and nut quality.
29.  In 1993, the first version of the Programa Nacional de Investigagao (National Research
Program) was prepared. It was subjected to many later revisions. However, until the closure of
the PRDA it had not been approved.
30.  Still concerning this Component, sealing works for the Ricatla Experimental Station
began, in Maputo Province, which, although completely paid for in 1993, were not completed.
Efforts undertaken in 1994 and 1995 to oblige the company awarded to continue the work until
completion, were without results.
4. RURAL CREDIT
31.  Originally, the project included a credit line in the amount of US$4.7 million, from which,
US$1.7 million was for commercial farmers, businessmen and transporters. The remaining



45
US$3.0 million were destined to finance the rehabilitation of the cashew processing plants in
Xai-Xai, Inhambane and Machava.
32. Policy changes and the beginning of the privatization process of the industrial units
brought upon the decision not to utilize this credit line for the financing of rehabilitation.
33. In all, 109 farmers, businessmen and transporters expressed their interest in having access
to this credit. Twenty of them presented investments to the Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento
(BPD), a financial institution to which was given the responsibility of granting loans through
this credit line. However, none were considered qualified due to lack of legitimate guarantees,
lack of co-participation, and lack of deeds for agricultural use of the land (for agricultural
projects). The main cause was the inability to convert capital, a situation in which all candidates
found themselves, aggravated by the investment proportions.
34. In April 1995, 10 technicians from Gaza and Inhambane graduated from a credit course
given. The objective was to place each technician in a district, in order to reinforce the technical
capacity of the BPD in the analysis and follow-up on the PRDA credit line loan requests.
However, this was not carried due to the decision to cancel the PRDA project.
5. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
35.  The technical capacity of the Cashew State Secretariat was reinforced in order to
implement a price system to the producer and to the manufacturer, and a consultant was hired
for this job.
In.       MAIN DIFFICULTIES
36. The implementation of the PRDA was characterized by immense difficulties, mainly
financial. Constraints can be described by the delay in the Special Account replenishments,
resulting from the weakness of the project's accounting systems. Difficulties also arose from the
internal (Government) financial contribution, due to the systematic lack of funds. In
consequence, the carrying out of the activities planned was many times delayed, and in some
cases even canceled. The extensionists had to face almost constant delays in salary payments.
Maputo, July 1997



MAP SECTION



uWA35C~~~~~~~J  U  N      3% ~~~~~~~~~-e ~~36                                            3                              0
AL                                             ITANZANIA
ANsoOLA                                     5*
ZAMABIA     '       sy
9                    -                             /    NV                               *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 05 mocrehOc
K                      9  ~~~~~~~~~u'~~~~~  Ce~~~D FeRle
12\   7%                                       /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
J     sAZILAND
AFAJCA                                                                                                                        CABC                      ena
or                                                                                / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~"Mont  MeteUF1t
MALAWI                                   --Plea
ZAMBIA                       -                       
C  --b-  ~      -       -                        - 
it~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i 2 N,.3L1A
Be.  A                                                                                                                                335~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U  
-N'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
T ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ZM&s 
C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~- 
-'    I              -    ,       - ~-          er9~tiir3AWI
-7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI
C'C,131, ~    ~          ~          M inrod
/  ..~~~~~                                                      Rail corridors:~~~~H MNG
-  3%A537NOOtA         AHASSORO  -~~~~                                 Operational'
tAARR IIIuretlEnn-praioa
rF!E-, ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    eece   cte
-      CHOJSO\~~~~~CAH~~
Maroinc oapital
LtI-510JPO   > ~ ~       ~       ~        ai crrdos
E                                                              Natonaltcapial
I N.,H A Al.  A3NEE                                 DStrict bounarie
Province boundaries
----  international boundaries
AFR I-CA    ~               ,14PUToJ~ 
E3-NE                                                                     H3LOMETfERS
36~~~  Ncsneusnsulnss.  MAPI4TO ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~This -ep sesproducd by tna Mnip D-sbe Mut of The Wnstd Ban.
26-  N                                                                        ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The bu -dne,nin-e d--nnnufi-n -od o-yfdne in(-uit,u s~how  23
onthis enop doeotinspt, or the paseF The WrntdSuntOGuu. any
/SWAZIN'M mN                                                                                       neteesr  onais
~~SOUTHA5FRICA    ~ 345                         36e                          So.



