Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12164-TU
MULTILATERAL FUND UNDER THE MONTREAL PROTOCOL
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE DIRECTOR FOR COUNTRY DEPARTM  1
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT, EUROPE & CENTRAL ASIA REGION
ONA
PROPOSED OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GRANT
!N THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$6.165 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A
PHASE-OUT OF OZONE DEPLErING SUBSTANCES PROJECT
December 28, 1993
MI CROGRAPHI CS
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department I                Report No:       12164 TU
Europe and Central Asia Region       Type: MOD
This document has a restricted distribution and may oe useu Dy recipients omy in tme performance of
| their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. |



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit   Turkish Lira (abbreviated TL)
1 US$ = TL 10,340 (December 11, 1993)
1 TL = $0.0001
Acronyms
AMD       -  Air Management Department
CFCs      -  Chloroflurocarbons
ICB       -  Intermational Competitive Bidding
MLF       -  Multilateral Fund of the Montreal Protocol
MoE       -  Ministry of Envirorment
ODSs      -  Ozone Depleting Substances
OTF       -  Ozone Projects Trust Fund
SIS       -  State Institute of Statistics
SPO       -  State Planning Organization
TDF       -  Technology Development Foundation
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Program
UNEP    -  United Nations Environmental Program
Iurkev - Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances Project
Grant and Project Summary
Recipient:                       Republic of Turkey
Beneficiaries:                   Ministry of Environment, Arcelik A.S. and
Other Private Sector Enterprises
Amount:                          US$6.165 million
Terms:                           Grant
Financial Intermediary           Technology Development Foundation of Turkey
Relending Terms:                 Arcelik A.S.: US$2.0 million grant and US$3.365 million US
dollar denominated, interest-free credits with a maturity of
seven years including three years grace period; US$0.8 million
grant to MoE and other private sector enterprises.
Project Costs and Financing Plan:
(1992-96)
-US$ Million--
LQxc    Foreign   Total
A. Investment Proiects (Arcelik)
1. Conversion of Refrigerator Manufacturing       0.729     4.171    4.900
2. Recovery/Reclaims of CFC-12 in Field           0.150     0.250    0.400
3. Recover/Reclaim in Factory                      .        0         0065
subtotal Arcelik        0.879     4.486    53
B. Preparation of Other Projects CIlF & MoE)        0.0       0.500     0.500
C. Institutional and Management Strengthening (MoE)  0.100    0.200     0 0
Total Project Costs         Q 979     5.186    6LL65
Financing from the Ozone Projects Trust Fund      0.979     5.186    6.165
EIRR:                            N/A
Map:                             N/A
This document has a resticted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performane ofir
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE DIRECTOR
FOR COUNTRY DEPARTMENT 1
TO THE REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
FOR EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
ON A PROPOSED OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUNDS GRANT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A PHASEOUT OF C:ZON REPENG} SUBSTANCES PROJEC
I. Introduction
1.           I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed Ozone Projects Trust Fund grant to the Republic of Turkey for US$6.165 million to help
finance a project for Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances. This would be the first Montreal Protocol
related grant to the Republic of Turkey to fund key activities aimed at reducing Turkey's consumption
of Ozone Depleting Substances.
II. Country/Sector Background
2.           Turkey is a rapidly growing and industrializing country which has performed remarkably
well in most recent 25 years. From 1965 to 1980 real GDP grew at an average annual rate of 6.2 per
cent, and from 1980 to 1990 it grew at a rate of 5.1 per cent. The share of industry has gone up from
a quarter of GDP in 1965, to one third in 1990. In recent years inflation has picked up and the
macroeconomic situation has been difficult but, in spite of this, and in spite of the uncertainties created
by the Gulf War, economic growth has continued. In the first three quarters of 1992 real value-added
rose at an annual rate of 6 per cent and the estimated growth in GDP in 1992 is expected to be S.5
percent.
3.           With this background, Turkey would be expected to use increasing amounts of Ozone
Depleting Substances (ODSs) which are required for the production of consumer durables such as
refrigerators, air conditioners etc., the demand for which is still growing in the country. In 1991 the
coury used 3519 tons of ODSs (primarily CFCs), all of which were imported as there are no production
facilities in Turkey. In the absence of the Montreal Protocol, demand for these chemicals would be
expected to increase to 4630 tons in 2010, an increase of 32 per cent or 1.4 per cent per annum. The
main users of CFCs in 1992 are estimated to be: refrigerants (25%), foams (53%), solvents (22%). Use
in aerosols has been almost completely phased out, from a peak figure of 1117 tons in 1989. The main
sectors using these substances in 1992 were: domestic refrigerators (57%, of which 37% was for
refrigerants and the remainder for foams); air conditioning (4%), polyurethane foams (18%), solvents
(21%). Turkey's ODS consumption for the period 1986-93 is shown in Annex A.
4.           Turkey ratified the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (the
Protocol) on September 20, 1991. Prior to ratifying the Protocol, the entire text of the Montreal Protocol
was passed as law by the Republic of Turkey. Turkey prepared a program (the Program) for the
Phaseout of ODSs with the assistance of the World Bank. The Program is Turkey's proposed Action
Plan which comprises the policies, implementation actions and investments needed to inidate ODS
Phaseout. The Action Plan includes key interventions such as increased use of ODS substitutes,
monitoring of ODS consumption patterns to ensure that the required progress is being achieved, and
public and industry awareness programs to communicate the features of the country's National Ozone
Policy. The Action Plan also identifies demonstration and investment projects that meet the
Implementation Guidelines and Criteria for Project Selection (the Guidelines) which were approved by
the Executive Committee (EC) of the Fund at its third meeting in April 1991.
S.           The proposed Project is a component of Turkey's Action Plan for the Phaseout of ODSs.
The Project, which was prepared by the Government of Turkey and relevant private sector enterprises



- 2 -
with th' assistance of the Bank, has been appraised by the Bank and has been processed as a free-standing
investment operation.
III. Main Institutions Involved
6.           There are several institutions, both in the Government and in the private sector, that have
an interest in the ozone issue. Details of these are given in Annex B. The institutions with direct
responsibility for implementing the proposed Project are:
Ministq of Environment: Tle jurisdiction of this new ministry include: legislation, policy
development and enforcement of the environmental protection activities. The specific duties
related to the Ozone Issue are to supervise and coordinate international and national activities
related to the Montreal Protocol. This ministry would be responsible for the enforcement of the
Government's Action Plan for the phaseout of ODS.
The Technology Development Foundation (TDE): This foundation was established as part of
Turkey's Technology Development Project, cofinanced by the Government of Turkey, private
sector investors, the World Bank and other development banks. The foundation has an executive
committee consisting of private sector representatives and has the mandate to fund activities on
the basis of grants, income notes, and conditional loans that match private sector contributions.
Additional information on the foundation is provided in Annex B. The TDF will act as the
financial intermediary under this Project for disbursing funds to the private sector.
Arcelik A.S: Arcelik A.S. is the largest producer of refrigerators in Turkey with over 30 years
of manufacturing experience. In 1991, Arcelik produced 550,000 refrigerators with exports of
about 71,000 units to the US and Europe. As part of this Project, Arcelik will introduce ODS-
free technology in its refrigerator manufacturing and implement the recovery/recycle of
refrigerant components.
IV. Project Objectives
7.           The objective of this Project is to assist ODS-using industries in Turkey to effectively and
efficiently phase out ODS usage through the adoption of policy, technological and monitoring measures.
The phase out is to be effected in compliance with the Protocol, as ratified by the Republic of Turkey,
and in accordance with the recommended ODS phase out strategy and Action Plan that has been outlined
in the Country Program.
V. Project Description
8.           The proposed Project has three main components. The first component consists of
investment projects, including technology transfer, for ODS phaseout. The second component consists
of preparatory activities, including demonstration projects, for preparation of further ODS phaseout
projects. The third component deals with institutional and organizational issues. The implementation of
the three components will proceed in parallel.
Component - A. Investment Projects and Technology Transfer for ODS Phase Out
9.           This component consists of the following sub-components, the details of which are
provided in Annex C and summarized below:
A(1)  Introduction of ODS-free Technologies in the Production of Domestic Refrigerators
tlncluding Compressor Engineering. Production Retrofit and Phaseout in Rigid Foam):
Engineering development, including acquisition of production and testing-related



equipment, for the design, testing and introduction of a new refrigerant (HFC-134a) to
replace CFC-12 in the refrigeration loop, and a modified foam system to reduce and
eliminate the use of CFC-1 1 in the rigid foam insulation for the refrigerator cavity.
A(2) Recovery and Recycling of Refrigerants in the Istanbul Area: Establishment of a
program for the recovery and recycling of CFC-12 for domestic refrigerators through the
existing network of domestic refrigerator service shops. This would entail recovery and
recycling of CFC-12 when refrigerators are serviced in the shops or in the household.
The recovered CFCs will be utilized during subsequent servicing activities and will
reduce net CFC consumption in Turkey and minimize early retirement costs.
A(3) Recovery and Recycling of Refrigerants at Refrigerator Production Facilitv:
Implementation of the recovery and recycling of CFC-12 from domestic refrigerators
being serviced or rebuilt at a refrigerator production plant.  The quality control
operaticns during manufacturing often require that compressors be purged of the coolant
in order to correct some problem.
10.          This component will be impleinented by Turkey's largest domestic refrigerator
manufacturer, Arcelik A.S. The refrigeration sector has been selected for priority phaseout of ODSs
because of its large role as a user of ODSs, and because the technology for phase out is established and
is cost effective. Further, domestic refrigerators were selected because these are manufactured in Turkey
while commercial refrigerators are imported. Among the domestic refrigerator manufacturers, Arcelik
was selected because: (a) it accounts for over 50% of the total refrigerator production capacity in Turkey,
and unlike the other Turkish manufacturers who had also been invited to do so, it has prepared a well
thought out and readily implementable project which contributes greatly to the overall objectives of the
Action Plan; (b) it has extensive vertical intkgration into compressor and components manufacturing,
including a well established Research and Development and product engineering facilities; and (c) it has
played proactive role in ODS phase out activities such as monitoring international developments in the
refrigeration industry, pursuing technical and financial assistance, etc.
Component - B. Preparation of Further ODS Phaseout Projects
11.          This component consists of demonstration projects and/or related activities for preparing
further projects which have a strategic significance from a technological or reduction of net incremental
costs point of view (such as the use of ozone friendly blowing agents for flexible and rigid foams;
recovery and recycle of CFC-12 in chillers and other stationary air conditioners) and which decrease ODS
consumption. These demonstration projects will serve to introduce the new technologies (such as
recovery units which are used to service mobile air conditioning systems) or alternative products (such
as new foam formulations) which are already available on the market, but which may involve process or
equipment changes. The preparatory activities could also lead to investment projects with substantiae
incremental costs which could be eligible for funding from the MLF. This component will be
implemented by the TDF with the assistance of the MoE.
Component - C. Institutional and Management Strengthening
12.          This component of the Project will target the agencies responsible for the implementation
of the Government Action Plan for ODS phaseout. The following measures will be implemented in
accordance with the time-table included in Annex G.
(a)    Setting up of the Ozone Panel: The Ozone Panel will advise on the selection of projects
for ODS phaseout and on the effectiveness of the regulatory framework. It will provide
suggestions for new activities as well as participating in public meetings as appropriate.



-4 -
The panel will consist of about 25 national and International experts who will meet bi-
annually. The first meeting is scheduled for June 1994.
(b)    Establishment of the Monitoring System for the consumption of ODSs: The MoE acting
as licensor for all ODSs as well as keeping records of production, consumption and
imports of ODSs would need to strengthen its monitoring system. A computerized
monitoring system would be established under the project.
(c)    Program for awareness of Ozone Issues by the Public and Industry: The activities
Include the preparation of a TV program and translation of UNEP videotapes on ODS
phase out Into Turkish; preparation of booklets on phaseout schedules and strategies;
sponsoring andlor participating In seminars/conferences for industries. The awareness
program has already begun, with a meeting in June 1993, held in Istanbul, to discuss
ozone phase out strategies with representatives of industry.
(d)    Framework for Regulation of Use of ODSs in the Future: Tbis involves the preparation
of a document outlining the strategy for the regulation of ODS use in Turkey. The
document will review regulatory approaches in other countries and consider the suitability
of bans, direct controls, license auctions, CFC levies, recycling incentives etc. as
regulatory tools. It will form the basis of a regulatory program, which will be drawn up
after consultation with other Ministries.
13.            The Air Management Department (AMD), under the General Directorate of Pollution
Prevention and Control, in the MoE would be responsible for implementing MoE's part of the project.
The AMD has staff with sufficient knowledge about the project and the issues. However, additional
assistance in the form of experts/consultants would be provided to assist the AMD in carrying out its
tasks. The AMD would also be assisted by the TDF In developing campaigns, evaluation of industry
proposals for support to demonstration projects, etc.
VI. Project Costs and Financing
,Proect Cost
14.            Detailed project costs and a financing plan are provided in Annex D and summarized in
Table 1.
Table 1: Summary Incremental Project Costs and Financing. 1992-96
(US Dollars)
A. Investment Protects (Arcelik)                     Local        Foreisn         iota
1. Conversion of Refrigerator Manufacturing     729,000       4,171,000      4.900,000
2. Recovery/Reclaims of CFC-12 in Field         150,000         250,000        400,000
3. Recever/Reolaim in Factory                        -          65 000          85 000
Subtotal Azeelik   879 000     4.486.000       3-365JO0
S. Preparation of Other Protects CTDF & MoE)          -            500.000         500.000
C. Institutional and ManaRement Strentthenina (MoE)    100.000     200.000         300 000
Total Inecemental Project Costs   979 000    M186 000       6.165C000
Financinx from the Ozone Proiects Trust Fund COT?)            5.6600
15.            The total incremental costs of the Project (1992-96) are estimated at US$6.165 mIllion.
The incremental costs represent the difference between the costs of complying with MP targets and the
costs which would be incurred without the MP. These estimates have been prepared by Arcelilc and MoE



- -
with assistance from industry experts as consultants and reviewed by the Bank. Cost estimates of most
of the equipments to be procured by Arcelik under the Project are supported by quotations from major
suppliers, and Arcelik has already realized savings of about US$0.4 million on testing and laboratory
equipments (para 22) originally estimated at about US$1.7 million. Therefore, additional contingencies
are not included. Cost estimates for consultancy services for technology transfer and project management
are based on average costs, including consulting fee, transportation, living expenses, etc. and hence are
monsidered adequate to cover possible contingencies. However, agreement has bsen reached that cost
overruns, if any, will be financed out of the respective implementing agencies' own resources.
Financing
16.          In accordance with the MP guidelines, all of the incremental project costs will be financed
from the OTF established by the Bank to channel funds from the Multilateral Fund (MLF) of the MP.
The amount sanctioned by the MP for funding fromn the OTF is US$6. 155 million and would be allocated
to the various components of the Project as indicated in Table 1. The funds would be provided as grant
to the Government, which will utilize US$800,000 for financing components B (US$500,000) and C
(US$300,000) of the Project (refer Table 1) and the remaining US$5.365 million will be made available
to Arcelik to fmance component A of the Project. Arcelik will derive some commercial benefits from
conversion of refrigerator manufacturing, but it will derive no commercial benefits from the recovery and
recycling of refrigerants. Therefore, to obtain a balance between the imposition on Arcelik to eliminate
ODSs and the (indirect) assistance to Arcelik to achieve commercial benefits, the Government would
provide the US$5.365 million to Arcelik partly as an interest-free, dollar-denominated loan repayable in
7 years, including 3 years 9f grace, and pardy as a non-refundable grant. The refundable loan part of
the funding will amount to US$3.365 million, corresponding to cost for Arcelik to convert refrigerator
manufacturing to CFC-free mode [part of sub-component A(1)]; the non-refundable grant will amount
to US$2.0 million, corresponding to the cost of recovering and recycling refrigerants, and of R&D for
CFC-free operations [sub-components A(2) and A(3), plus the R&D part of sub-component A(l)]. In
order to accommodate any changes in the estimated costs of the project during implementation, the grant
and loan portions to Arcelik of the proceeds of the proposed Grant is represented in percentage terms in
the Grant Agreement. That is, 62% of the funds to Arcelik would be provided as loan and the remaining
38% as grant.
Revolving Fund for ODS Phaseout Activites
17.          The funds to be paid back by Arcelik to the GovernmentvTDF under the interest-free loan
arrangement (US$3.365 million) will be rolled over to finance other refrigerator manufacturers as well
as other enterprises for activities related to the phaseout of ODSs. It is expected that these funds will be
used to finance typically small projects or parts of large projects to match available funds and to ensure
quick implementation, while large projects would be proposed to MP for funding with other grants.
Financial support to selected projects will be provided on grant, or loan, or part grant-part loan basis.
Financial support to components of the selected project which provide no commercial benefit to the
enterprise will be on grant basis and to other components on loan basis. The loan funds would be dollar
based interest-free credits with a maturity of four to five years including grace periods of one to two years
depending on project implementation period.
18.          The TDF will administer the roll over of these funds, including selection of eligible
projects. The TDF will select projects for financial support based on criteria such as reduction in level
of ODS consumption, contribution to phaseout of ODSs as per Action Plan, etc. The TDF will obtain
expert assistance from consultants, MoE, the Ozone Panel [para 12(a)] in evaluation and selection of
projects for financing. The TDF will supervise and monitor the progress of implementation of the
projects financed. TDF has already gained over one year experience in project selection, supervision,
etc. under the ongoing Technology Development Project (Ln. 3296-TU). Ihe costs of administration



-6-
would be covered by the fee charged by the TDF for its services which is about 2-3 percent of the
amount of financing provided. It is expected that ODS phaseout activities would be completed by about
2005, after which the remaining funds are proposed to be used by the Government for environmentally
beneficial activities. Agreement have been reached with the Government that: (a) funds would be utilized
for ODS phaseout activities in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) the accounts of
the TDF would be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank and audit reports submitted
to the Bank within six months after the end of the financial year.
VII. Project Implermentation
Imnplementing A,eenies
19.           Arcelik, together with its wholly-owned subsidiary, Turkish Electric Industry A.S., will
be responsible for implementing component A (investment projects) and the TDF and the MoE
respectively would be responsible for implementing components B and C (preparation of other ODS phase
out projects and institutional and management strengthening). The TDF would act as the financial
intermediary for providing funds to Arcelik and other private sector enterprises under components A and
B respectively. The MoE would also provide assistance to TDF (through the Ozone Panel) as needed
for implementing component B of the Project.
Procurement Arrangements
2t.           Procurement arrangements under the Project are provided in Annex E and summarized
in Table 2.
Table 2: Procurement Arrangtient a/
Procurement Method
Pro1ect Comonant Descriution                  IC8          Other        Total
A. Investment Protects (Arcelik)
1. Conversion of Refrigerator Manufacturing           --     4,900,000 b/   4,900,000
2. Recovery/Reclaims of CFC-12 in Field               --       400,000 h/    400,000
3. Recover/Reclaim in CFC-12 in Factory               --        65,000 W)     65,000
B. Preparation of Other Projects (TDF & MoE)             --       500,000 ki     500,000
C. Institutional and Manaoement Strenathening (MoE)      --       300000 0 /     300°000
Total                   --     6165,000       6.165,000
j/ figures are in US dollars.
ki Standard comercial practices.
£/ Bank's Guidelines on Use of Consultants (August 1981) US$250,000; local
shopping for office equipments (US050,000).
21.           Procurement of goods and services by Arcelik (Component A) involves a relatively large
number of specialized and small value items (about US$3.9 million). Due to their specialized nature and
new technologies, most items would be procured from foreign sources. Other private sector enterprises
(component B) are expected to procure goods (about US$0.2 million) to assist in preparation of specific
investment projects. Procurement by Arcelik and other private sector enterprises under the Project would
be in accordance with Bank guidelines for intermediation loans which permit the use of standard
commercial practices. Since the contracts are all small in value (argest being about US$0.4 million),
procurement of goods and services under components A and B of the Project would not be subject to the
Bank's prior review. Selective post review of awarded contracts would be made during project
supervision.



22.          Arcelik would procure consulting services, including technology transfer arrangements
(about US$1.5 million). Consultancy services for project implementation and management would be
carried out by project teams for the various aspects of the projects. Members of project team would be
selected by Arcelik individually to suit the specialization needed. Project management costs are estimated
at about US$880,000 for one team-leader, six project engineers and four technicians for a period of three
years. Technology transfer involves arrangements under which technical know-how will be purchased
from specialized research laboratories and/or from equipment (ex. refrigerator) manufacturers, including
on-site assistance for supervision and implementation. Arcelik would procure refrigeration, compressor
and polyurethane technologies from research laboratories and/or CFC-free refrigerator manufacturers for
Component A(1) of the Project (about US$572,000). Technology transfer includes expert assistance for
on-site inspection, training and commissioning, consultants travel and one-time payment for acquisition
of technology. Other private sector enterprises are expected to procure consulting services (US$0.3
million) to assist in preparation of other investment projects. All consultancy services will be procured
in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants (August 1981) and will be subject to prior
review procedures of the Bank.
23.          The MoE would procure consultancy services for establishing a computerized ODS
monitoring system (about 3 man-months; US$40,000), developing a regulatory framework for use of
ODSs (about 4 man-months; US$60,000) and developing public awareness campaigns on ODS phaseout
US$70,000). It would also procure some office equipments (US$50,000) to carry out its duties as a
secretariat for the Ozone Panel. About US$80,000 would be utilized to cover the costs of Ozone Panel
meetings in Turkey, including the costs of travel of Panel Members. All consultancy services would be
procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants (August 1981) and would be subject
to prior review procedures of the Bank. The implementation of the ODS monitoring system would be
carried out by an individual consultant, selected on the basis of comparison of at least three CVs.
Consultants for developing public awareness campaigns would be selected from local public relations
firms. Procurement of office equipments would be according to local shopping procedures as per Bank
Guidelines for procurement of goods (May 1992).
24.          Following review and acceptance by MLF, Arcelik has procured, since September 1992,
certain laboratory and testing equipments from various foreign suppliers at a total contract price of about
US$1.87 million. The procurement of these equipments, which are part of Arcelik's project proposal,
is in line with the agreed time table and have been carried out under international shopping in accordance
with standard commercial practice for such equipments. The mission has reviewed the procurement
documentation and Arcelik's evaluation procedures which are satisfactory.   Since Arcelik's
implementation has experienced no delays so far and since these are high value items, the amount of
retroactive financing (about 30% of total grant) is above the 10% limit. In view of the impact of delays
of Arcelik's component on the benefits of the Project, the mission recommends that these expenditures
be eligible for retroactive financing.
Disbursement Arrangements
25.          The OTF funds would be disbursed through the TDF for financing private sector
enterprises. A special account for the TDF and MoE with an initial deposit of US$500,000 would be
established at the Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The use of statement
of expenditures would also be permitted on contracts valued at US$50,000 or less to facilitate timely
payments to contractors. The TDF would retain the supporting documents and make them available for
inspection by Bank supervision mission and by external auditors. No reimbursement or withdrawal
applications for less than US$50,000 would be accepted. Agreements have been reached with: (a) the
Government to have the special account and statement of expenditures audited by independent auditors
and to submit the audit report to the Bank within six months after the end of the financial year; and O)



-8 -
Arcelik to have its project accounts audited by private auditors and to submit the audit reports to the Bank
within six months after the end of the financial year.
26.          The OTF funds would be disbursed against: (a) 100% of cif cost of imported goods or
ex-factory cost of domestically manufactred goods; and (b) 100% of the cost of technical assistance for
training and consultancy aervices, inc 4ding technology transfer arrangements. Arcelik's component,
which is a major part of the Project, is scheduled to be completed by December 1995. However,
considering that the Project has technology transfer, R & D, etc., the project completion date is set for
June 30, 1996. The details of disbursement are included in Annex F. Expenditures amounting to a
maximum of US$1.87 million which were incurred to finance the eligible expenditures for the laboratory
and test equipment for Arcelik would be eligible for retroactive financing (para 24).
roject Monitoring and Bank Supervision
27.          The Bank will closely monitor the progress in implementation of the Project. The
implementing agencies would furnish quarterly progress reports with format and contents satisfactory to
the Bank. The success of the Project will be judged by (a) the extent to which it fulfills, efficiently and
effectively the strategy outlined in the Country Plan, and (b) the savings in net incremental costs that it
achieves compared to other feasible strategies that would fulfill the terms of the Montreal Protocol and
that Turkey could conceivably carry out.
VIII. Project Sustainabilitv
28.          The Project is sustainable to achieve the underlying objective of accelerated phaseout of
ODSs in accordance with the Action Plan. The repayments from Arcelik would be rolled over to finance
other ODS phaseout activities. The funding on grant basis would improve the financial viability of
elements of the Project which have little commercial returns thereby ensuring private sector interest as
well as sustainability. The demonstration projects component of the Project will assist TDF/MoE in
identifying and preparing other ODS phaseout projezts. It is anticipated that the ODS phaseout projects
emerging from the proposed Project would be proposed for funding with the proceeds of Arcelik's
repayment of the loan portion of the proposed financing, and would possibly also be eligible for
additional funding from the OTF.
IX. Lessons From Bank Projects
29.          The Technology Development Project (Ln.3296-TU) under implementation is the relevant
one from which lessons relevant to the design of the proposed Project have been drawn. The TDF,
cofinanced by the Government, private sector and the Bank, is fully functional and has successfully
contributed to the promotion of public-private cooperation in applied research and development. In less
than two years of establishment, TDF has been able to mobilize over US$8.5 million equivalent in
funding for about twelve projects and is now evaluating twenty seven additional proposals recently
received for funding. The TDF has also gained over a year of experience in Research and Development
Project selection, monitoring and supervision.
X. Rationale For Funding From The Montreal Protocol Multilateral Fund
30.          As per the Implementation Guidelines and Criteria for Project Selection established by
the Executive Committee of the Montreal Protocol during its third meeting in April 1991, all technical
assistance, demonstration projects, pre-investment and investment activities which lead to reductions in
O1)S emissions are eligible for financing. The proposed Projects are an important part of the action plan
as outlined in the country program. All the sub-components have been reviewed and deemed to be valid



-9-
incremental costs of meeting the tenrs of the Montreal Protocol. They have been reviewed and approved
by the executive committee of the MLF, and funds were allocated at the June and October 1992 meetings.
XI. Actions Ageree
31.          The following agreements were reached with the Government. The Government to: (a)
establish the Ozone Panel by February 28, 1994; (b) develop and implement by September 30, 1994 a
comprehensive system for monitoring the consumption of ODSs in the country; (c) complete by
March 31, 1994 and review with the Bank thereafter the strategy for the regulation of ODSs in Turkey;
(d) implement the agreed strategy for regulation of ODSs by June 30, 1994; (e) carry out public
awareness campaigns on the Ozone Issue and the importance of conservation practices; (t) ensure that re-
use of funds by TDF would be for ODS phaseout activities in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the
Bank; and (g) have audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank: (i) the special account,
including the statement of expenditures; and (ii) the financial accounts of IDF, and submit the audit
report to the Bank within six months after the end of the financial year. Agreements have been reached
with Arcelik to: (a) have its project accounts audited by independent auditors and submit the audit report
to the Bank within six months after the end of the financial year; (b) finance from own sources any
increase in project costs due to physical or price changes; and (c) take all measures, satisfactory to the
Bank, to comply with safety requirements recommended by manufacturers of chemicals used. The
agreements (a) between the Government and TDF for execution of part of the project by the TDF; an.
(b) between the TDF and Arcelik for the transfer of funds pardy as grant and partly as a loan, on termi
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank are set as conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Grant.
XII. Project Benefits
32.          The benefits of this Project in the medium term relate to the reduction in the consumption
of ODSs, and in the long term to the phaseout of ODSs. As the benefits of the Project are global, and
involve the reduction i health, agricultural and climatic damages, they cannot be estimated in the context
of this Project. Hence it is not appropriate, or possible, to compute a rate of return for the net benefits
of the Project. Instead it is necessary to take a cost efficient approach - i.e., to ensure that the projects
do in fact achieve the reduction in ODSs at least cost to society. In this context it Is Important to note
that the proposed 'Project' is in fact a cluster of sub-projects which form part of the overall, national cost-
efficient strategy for achieving these objectives. Therefore, for each component, the cost per ton of CFC
phased out was estimated and compared with similar estimates in other phaseout projects. Further, where
feasible, the contiibution of the project components to the overall strategy has been presented, both in
qualitative and quantitative terms. Detailed analysis of the project benefits for each of the components
are presented in Annex H.
Phase Out of CFC12 as Refigerator Coolant at Arcelik
33.          The incremental costs of using HFC134a as the appropriate substitute for CFCl2 in the
compressors were determined. Two strategies for the phaseout: one based on an accelerated replacement
of ODSs by substitutes (optimum phaseout), and the second based on replacement of ODSs just in time
to comply with the allowable phaseout schedule were considered. The phaseout costs include capital
costs, operating costs and costs of early retirement or scrapping of CFC12-refrigerators due to
increasingly expensive service costs and/or due to non-availability of CFC12. The present value of the
phaseout costs amount to about US$127 million for the accelerated phaseout strategy, and to US$232
million for the gradual phaseout strategy which makes use of all the allowable time. The substantial
saving of US$105 million in present value terms which would be obtained by following the optimum
phaseout, compared to the allowable phaseout, arises largely from the savings in costs related to forced
early retirement of CFC12-refrigerators. The Project will contribute to phasing out, by 1996, Arcelik's
consumption of 148 tons/year of CFC12 at an estimated capital cost of US$3.7 million, equivalent to a



- 10 -
unit cost of US$25/kg/year.  Compared with typical costs of CFC phaseout in the order of
US$50/kg/year, the Project is cost effective.
Phase Out of CFC 1I as a Foam Blowing Agent in the
Production of Insulation for Refrigerators at Arcelik
34.          Changing from CFCI I to CFC I1/water, with addition of polyol would reduce CFC use
in blowing by about half and is estimated to increase the cost of raw materials by about 2-3%. Arcelik
uses 600 tons/year of CFCI 1, which is 60% of the annual consumption of that substance throughout the
country. The Project for phasing out its use in Arcelik has a total capital cost of US$1.2 million.
Assuming that initially it led to a 50% phaseout, the capital cost would be US$4/kg/yr. If eventually the
full phaseout materialized, the capital cost per kg would be US$2/kg/year. Based on a comparison of
the costs that have been estimated in other countries, this seems about right.
Recovery and Recycling of CFCI I from Refrigerator Service Centers
35.          The program for recycling in this Project has to be seen as a pilot project which will
reveal the potential, as well as the difficulties in achieving the maximum effective rate of recycling. The
Project has an initial cost of US$550,000 for the recovery of CFC12 from the 15 service shops. the
expected rate of recovery is about 35% initially, amounting to 110 tons/year. That translates into a
capital cost of CFC12 recovered of US$5/kg/year. Again, comparing this to the estimated recycling
capital cost for household refrigerants in other countries (e.g., Egypt, US$9.5/kg/yr), this program is
effective.
XIII. Risks
36.          The Project risks are considered to be minimum. The proposed technical aspects will rely
on proven technologies and processes. The risk of delay in the introduction of a new compressor
technology at Arcelik for production of non-CFC12 refrigerators is reduced because of the quick pace
at which alternative technologies are evolving to deal with the different thermodynamic characteristics
of HFC-134a as a new refrigerant. Arcelik is backed by its technology licensor, Tecumseh Products
Company of USA for compressors. Also, Arcelik's approach to use an already proven chemical
(CFC1 1/water with polyol) as an intermediate-term foam blowing agent pending the selection of a better
chemical by the industry at large will reduce the risk to Arcelik further. Further, the presence of
distortions (such as unusually high taxes on alternatives) in the market place affecting the introduction
of new technologies would be minimized through policy and regulatory interventions under the Project
to provide the required support to new technologies.
XIV. Environmental Aspects
37.          All components of tde Project are enviromnentally sound and will effectively reduce the
emission of ODS into the enviromnent. The Project does not involve use of substances such as natural
gas and methylene chloride. However, the second step of the rigid foam component may involve
introduction of chemical substances for which toxicities, flammabilities, etc. have not yet been
determined. Depending on the selection of the chemical/s to be used, Arcelik would have to comply with
all safety guidelines and recommendations made by manufacturers. The MoE will ensure that Arcelik
and other companies being provided assistance under the OTF will comply with applicable environmental
regulations under Turkish Law and the World Bank guidelines. The Project is classified as a Category
B in accordance with OD 4.01.



XV. Recommendation
38.          1 am satisfied that the proposed Project would comply with the relevant provisions of
Ozone Projects Trust Fund, and I recommend that the grant be approved.
Michael H. Wiehen
Director
Country Dept. 1 (Bulgaria/Cyprus/Portugal/Romania/Turkey)
Europe and Central Asia Region
Attachments
Washington D.C.
December 28, 1993



- 12 -
TURKEY                          Annex A
Phaseout of Ozone DepletinR Substances Project
ODS CONSUMPTION IN TURKEY
.__________  .1986  1987  1988  1989  1990) 1991  1992  1993
REFRIGERANTS
CF5 t1               7    10    13    50    53    57    60    64
CPC12              593   700   778   509    590   650   683   714
CFC IIs              0      0   0       0    14      0      0     0
Total tonnes       600   710   791  560   657   707   744   778
FOAM
C FC0 i1          1,430  1,840 1,900 1,248  1,454  1,584  1,614  1,845
C.SC 12              0      0     0     0      0     0      0     0
T.,tal tonnes     1,430  1,840 1,9   1,246  1,454  1,584  1,614  1,645
AER¢SOLS
CFOII. 11          200   260   165    91    46       0      0     O
- CF 12            660   950   865  1,000   937   200    10       01
CPC1I4              40    50    20    26    16       O 0    0     o
Total tonnes       900  1,260 1,050  11 17   999   200    10      0
SOI.VENTS                                                              I
CFC113tonnes       100   125   160   360   518, 550   650   700
TOTAL CFCs
CFC 11            1,637  2,110 2,078  1,387  1,553  1,641  1,674  1,709
CFC 12            1,253  1,650  1,643  1,509 1-,527   850   693   714
CFC 113            100   125   160   360   518   550   650   700
CFC114              40    501    20    26    16      0      0     0
CFC115               0      0     0     0    14      0      0     0
Total tonnes     3,030  3,935 3,901  3,283 3,628 3,041  3,018  3,123
Total OOPtonnes   3,010  3,910 3,869 3,211  3,519  2,931  2,888  2983
HALONS                   l      l     z     {_    
Halon 1211              15    17   20       0    23    40    70   121
Halon130r            8      8     9     0      2     4      8    16
Totaltonnes         23    25    29      0    25    44    78   137
TotalOOPtonnes     1251  131   1501   0    89   160   289   523
TOTAL CFCs AND      ONS
Tonnes            3,053  3,960  3,930 3,283  3,653  3,085  3,095  3,2601
OOP tonnes       3,135  4,041 4,019 3,211  3,608  3,091  3,176, 3,5061
Sources
1986-88         World Bank Mission report March 1991
1989-90         Totals from  Govemment of Turkey figures as reported to Nairobi;
Sector breakdown from discussions with industry
1991-93         Projections
L I 



- 13 -                       Annex B
Pate 1 of 4
TURKEY
Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances Project
Institutions Involved
A. Government Agencies
Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade (The Treasury)
1.           Ihis organization is authorized to issue Regulations and Communiques in relation to
maters in Import Regime Decree, to grant permissions and instructions, to make amendments or to take
measures that are deemed necessary at each stage of importation, to control or have controlled the import
prices, to examine, to conclude the special and compulsory cases. Concerning the Ozone Issue, the
specific interest of the General Directorate of Importation will be to control imports of ODSs and
products containing ODSs and to introduce custom duties and levies on the ODSs. In addition, the
General Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations (Department of World Bank Projects Transport,
Infrastructure and Environment Section) will also act as the focal point for deciding whether grants, soft
loans, subsidies or other forms of assistance will be given for project financing during the implementation
of the Action Plan.
State Planning Qrganization (SPO)
2.           The duties of this organization are to plan, fund, and direct the economic, social as well
as the cultural life of the country and to take the appropriate corrective measures if necessary. The
specific role of the State Planning Organization in the Ozone Issue will be to establish the measures which
have to be taken by industry and government agencies in order to enforce the Action Plan with minimal
upset to the economy during the phaseout of ODS.
State Institute of Statistics (SIS)
3.           The present duty of the State Institute of Statistics (SIS) with respect to the Ozone Issue
is to compile, classify and publish data on the import of chemicals that are controlled by the Montreal
Protocol. The specific responsibility of the Department of Environmental Statistics of SIS on the ozone
issue will be to record and assess the import and export of ODS in chemical form, and/or as part of a
product, and to inform the relevant institutions of these figures as required by the Montreal Protocol.
Turkish Scientific and Technological Research Organization (TUBITAK)
4.           The main responsibility of this organization is to organize and finance research. The
possible involvement of this organization regarding the Ozone Issue is to find alternative
chemicals/compounds and new technologies suited to Turkey's industrial structure.
Ministry of Environment
5.           Prior to the establishment of the Ministry of Environment (in August 1991) as a separate
ministry, there was an undersecretariat under the Prime Minister that dealt with environmental issues.
The short term duties of this new ministry are: legislation, policy development and enforcement of the



- 14 -                        Annex B
Page 2 of 4
environmental protection activities. The specific duties related to the Ozone Issue are to supervise and
coordinate international and national activities related to the Montreal Protocol. This ministry would be
responsible for the enforcement of the Action Plan.
Ministry of Finance and Customs
6.           Responsibilities for the Ozone Issue fall upon three departments of the Ministry of
Finance and Customs: the General Directorate of Revenue, General Directorate of Customs, and Foreign
Relations Department. The General Directorate of Revenue deals with taxes. The General Directorate
of Customs is responsible for setting up the statistical positions in the Custom Tariffs, and the Foreign
Relations Department is responsible for making the necessary preparations for adopting the International
Instruments to the national legislation.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
7.           The duties of the General Directorate of Multilateral Economic Relations within this
ministry is to act as a link between international and Turkish organizations. The specific role of the
department of International Social and Technical Affairs with regard to the ozone issue is the transfer of
information from the international institutions to national associations and institutions. The Ministry of
Foreign Affairs will ensure that the commitments made by Turkey in its Country Program are followed
by government and other organizations within Turkey.
Ministry of Industry and Trade
8.           One of the responsibilities of the General Directorate of Industrial Research and
Development are to study policies regarding Turkish trade in view of existing industry and determine how
to apply the policies decided by the government. The specific involvement of the Departnent of Science
and Technology regarding the ozone issue is to collect the information from international organizations
through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as well as other organizations and to set up policies for
technology transfer. This department will study ways to handle the cost of new alternative technologies
and processes and encourage technological transformation leading to ODS phaseout.
B. Industry Associations and Non Government Organizations
9.           The General Union of Chambers of Commerce and Commodity Exchange of Turkey
provides guidance to industrialists in the introduction of new technologies to Turkey. It also collects the
views and complaints of industrialists regarding environmental issues. On the Ozone Issue, the General
Union of Chambers of Commerce is concerned by the cost of technology transfer and alternative
chemicals. It is especially concerned about the small and medium size manufacturers using ODSs. In
the transition period towards total ODS phase-out, the Union will provide assistance and advice to its
members.
10.          The White Appliances Association is an association of industrialists that manufacture and
sell white appliances (washers and dryers, refrigerator, etc.) in Turkey. The industrialists meet to discuss
problems common to their particular industries. Common actions may be recommended by the
association and representations made to the authorities.
11.          The Environmental Problems Foundation and the Society for the Protection of the
Enviromnent and Greening of Turkey are two of five organizations in Turkey that have an interest in the
environment issue. These two groups are the only ones that have an interest in the Ozone Issue. The



- 15 -                        Annex B
Page 3 of 4
others deal with biodiversity issues. The Environmental Problems Foundation makes research on
environmental problems and publicizes the findings to increase public awareness. The specific interest
of the foundation in the Ozone Issue is to research literature, issue bulletins and books, as well as arrange
meetings to inform interested parties of policies and trends.
C. Joint Public/Private Sector Enterprises
Turkish TechnoloUy Development Foundation (TDF)
12.          The Turkish Technology Development Foundation (TDF) was established in 1991 as part
of Turkey's Technology Development Project, cofinanced by the Government of Turkey, private sector
investors, the World Bank and other development Banks. The TDF has been structured as a vakifr that
under Turkish law, is equivalent to a non-profit organization and is tax-exempt. The highest decision-
making body of the TDF is the Constitutive Assembly, which acts as a Board of Trustees and meets a
minimum of one a year. The members of the Constitutive Assembly are selected on the basis of financial
contribution to the vakif and are drawn mainly from private sector. At a more operational level,
decisions are taken by the nine member Executive Committee. Three members of the Executive
Committee are appointed under the TDF's Articles of Incorporation and represent Treasury, TUBITAK
and the Union of Chambers. Five members of the Executive Committee are elected by the Constitutive
Assembly and are therefore drawn from the private sector. The Executive Committee is responsible for:
(a) translating the strategic study results into operational guidelines for the TDF's activities; (b) approving
research programs over the US$50,000 level, leaving operational responsibilities and smaller projects to
the staff; (c) monitoring the performance of the TDF against financial and technical evaluation criteria;
and (d) auditing and reporting requirements.
13.          The TDF is managed by a Secretary-General (responsible for managing operations
including personnel and budget functions) and a small staff, initially comprising three professional and
two support personnel, with a mix of business, scientific and legal backgrounds. The staff is responsible
for: (a) identifying programs; (b) facilitating and evaluating proposals with the help of external peer
review committees; (c) negotiating contracts between participants and the TDF; (d) monitoring the
project; (e) establishing and defending intellectual property rights emerging from the program;
(f) designing operational procedures; and (f) developing the revenue stream of the TDF.
14.          The TDF provides seed capital for projects that develop Turkey's technology
infrastructure, preferably through collaboration between private sector and the research establishment.
Applicants must demonstrate that the proposed projects: (a) wIll meet identifiable market needs;
(b) possess scientific and technical merit; (c) have qualified personnel; and (d) enjoy significant financial
support from the private sector. Preference will be given to projects that fall within the fields of special
emphasis and that have consortia backing'/. The TDF has the flexibility to support a range of industrial
technology development initiatives outside applied R&D. In particular, the TDF aims to broker (and at
times invest in) joint ventures between international contract research organizations and local groups.
15.          The TDF is able to employ a full range of debt, equity and quasi-equity financing
instruments. Projects will normally be financed on a conditional loan basis where repayments are tied
to the success of the project. In exceptional cases where, for example, the TDF retains all the intellectual
property rights generated by the project, grant financing will be available. Following the European
1/ Since consortia projects are more likely to be pre-competitive in nature and generate greater
externalities.



- 16 -
Annex B
Page 4 of 4
model, the TDF finances an agreed percent of the 'allowable full costs" (in the case of private
participants) or 100% of 'marginal costs' (in the case of research institutes or universities. Allowable
full costs (AFCs) are defined to include direct labor costs, expenses, external assistance (including sub-
contracts), depreciation on equipment and overheads calculated in accordance with principles acceptable
to the TDF. Marginal costs are similar to AFCs except that: (a) in the direct labor category, only
incremental labor expenses are permitted; and (b) overhead charges are fixed at 20%. Contracts between
the TDF and universities/research institutes will therefore not be subject to Revolving Fund regulations
that specify mandatory contributions to University Research and Equipment Funds.
16.          The TDF adopts an active approach to its portfolio of projects, offering management
reviews on a regular basis and enforcing the parties' contract. For each project, major milestones are
reviewed after three months and then at the end of the first year at which point a decision will be taken
regarding second year funding. The Executive Committee reviews each project (greater than US$50,000)
at the time of grant negotiation, at the first year review and at the end of the project.
17.          Financial Sources of the TDF include GOT contributions, bi- and multi-lateral grants,
income obtained from the development and support fund and income generated from its own operations.
Internally generated revenues are expected to grow in importance with the long-term aim that the TDF
be self-financing through: (a) licensing of intellectual property vested in the TDF; (b) management fees;
and (c) specially commissioned studies and strategic/policy advice. Until the TDF is fully established,
TUBITAK has agreed to provide accommodation and other material support to reduce the burden of
administrative overheads.
18.          The TDF will act as the financial intermediary for channeling the OTF funds to private
sector enterprises to achieve the targets set in Turkey's Country Program for the phaseout of ODSs.



Phaseout of Ozone DeOletfin  Substances Prolect
Governmental Ornanization Chart of Remhl Ic of Turkey on the Ozone Issue
Prime Minister          State Planning Organizateon                  General Directorate of                    Department of Planning
Social Planngng
State Institute of Statistics                    Department of
Enviroramntal Statistics
Turkish Scientific and Technological               Marine Scfences and                  Transport, Infrastructure and
Research Organization                     Environmental Research Group               Envfronment Office
Undersecretariat of Treasury                   General Directorate of                       Oepartment of World
and Foreign Trade                        Foreign Economic Relations       lank Projects
AGenerat Directorate of Econoi 
|Research and Assessment          |    |   Department of Statfstics         l
0    Geneal Dirctorat  of   W    epartmnt ofInternationat            
Relations and Assessment
n ntr                      General Oirectorate of                     Department of Research
|  _   l               ~~~~~Meteorotogy                          and Data Processing  
Ministry of                        Ministry of                       Ministry of                         Ministry of
Environment                    Finance and Customs                 Foreign Affairs                    tndustry and Trade
General Directorate of               General Directorate             General Directorate of              General Directorate of
Environmental Pollution                    of Revenue                Multilateral Economic              Industrial Researches and
Relations                           Development
Management                         of Customs              |Social and Technical Affairs          Science ard Technology      l                           X
D7epartnent of Air              F eea   iecoaeDprteto   nerainl                                    jDeateto
foreign Relations
F      Department



- 18 -
Annex C
Page 1 of 3
TURKEY
Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances Project
Introduction of ODS-Free Technologies in the
Production of Domestic Refrigerators at ARCELIK
PROJECT SUMMARY
The purpose of this Project is to phase out chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) consumption at Arcelik,
Turkey's largest refrigeration equipment manufacturer. This Project provides for the purchase of
equipment, labor and technology transfer to facilitate and expedite the switch from CFC to non ozone-
depleting substances (ODS) in the production of household refrigerators, and involves engineering
development of new compressor redesigns, introduction of new foam blowing technologies and
manufacturing retrofit. The Project will phase out 148 tons/year of CFC-12 (refrigerant) and CFC-l1
(form) by the end of 1996. This represents about 50% of the new refrigeration equipment sector in 1992
and 25% of the total ODS consumption in Turkey.
SECTOR BACKGROUND
Household refrigerators and freezers are significant users of CFC in Turkey. In 1990,
approximately one million refrigerators and freezers were produced in the country. Each of these units
will be charged with 0.25 to 0.30 kg of CFC-12 in the refrigeration system. Approximately, 1.00 kg
of CFC-1 1 is used in producing the polyurethane cabinet insulation. The total number of refrigerators
and freezers in use in 1990 is estimated to be ten million. By 1992, the refrigeration sector accounted
for all of the CFC-12 consumption (683 tons) as refrigerant and about 60% (1,000 tons) of the CFC-1 1
used in the rigid foam as insulator.
PROJECT DESCRITON
The Project consists of the following undertakings:
Switch to an Alternative RefTigerant.  This Project consists of tie development of new
refrigeration compressors that use non-ozone depleting substances. The Project provides for the
acquisition of specific equipment and for engineering assistance and training for the design, testing and
introduction of new compressor technologies.
The change to a refrigerant, such as the substitution of HFC-134a for CFC-12, is a major concern
for a refrigerator manufacturer, such as Arcelik that manufactures both the electrical motor and the
mechanical compressor. Due to the somewhat different thermodynamic characteristic of HFC-134a from
CFC-12, the compressor displacement and the motor output will have to be optimized for the new
refrigerant. Currently, Arcelik uses approximately 148 tons of CFC-12/m to manufacture its
refrigerators. The Project should result in the complete elimination of this use of CFC-12 by end-1998.
Use of CFC-l1 in Polyurethane Refrigerator Insulation. Polyurethane is the most common
material used in refrigerator insulation. It is anticipated that after appropriate refrigerator performance
testing in the temperature controlled test cells, the shift to formulations utilizing 50% less CFC-1l will
be possible without significant production equipment modification. Alternatives such as HCFC-142b,



-19-                            Annex C
Page 2 of 3
HCFC-22, HFC-142a, HFC-134a, acetone and pentane are being used/considered for various foam
application. Final timing and definition of the complete reduction scenario will depend on technology
development in alternative blowing agent. The second phase could be the use of HCFCs such as HCFC-
22, HCFC-22/142b of HCFC-141b. The ultimate goal is to have a product such as HFC-134a qualified
and in use before 1996. Considerable work is now in progress by producers and appliance manufacturers
in testing HFC-134a which is showing surprising promise. The long-term blowing agent of choice is,
at the moment, HFC-134a with HCFC-22/HCFC-142b as a possible intermediate-term candidate. The
immediate strategy of 50% CFC reduction, as planned by Arcelik, seems prudent. At present, Arcelik
uses approximately 500 tons of CFC-1 1 as a foam blowing agent. It is expected that about half of this
will be eliminated by 1995.
Engineering Development. The engineering development work for this Project will be done
primarily at the research and development and product engineering facilities located at Cayirova, Turkey.
The engineering organization has adapted an approach of monitoring international developments in the
refrigeration industry through literature searches, attending seminars and conferences in the U.S. and in
Europe. The conversion of approximately 15 models of refrigerators for the alternate refrigerant and oil
will require extensive performance testing in ambient controlled rooms. Arcelik will use some of its
existing test cells, but will require additional cells to deal with the substantial increase in product testing
activities.
This testing will determine the optimum capillarity restriction and refrigerant charge to provide
appropriate refrigerator storage temperatures, minimize energy consumption, attain necessary low-voltage
operation and determine ice-freezing rates. All of these tests are defined in the International Standards
Organization (ISO) documents which establish parameters for refrigerator labeling such as "tropical",
"temperate", designations and the requirements for freezer compartment 'star" ratings. Tbis Project
provides for one additional controlled ambient test cell that will meet the test cell specifications of the ISO
standards. This test cell will provide improved test accuracy to identify smaller differentials in
performance. While other existing test cells provide less accurate data, it will be necessary to utilize
them in order to complete the extensive evaluation program in a timely fashion. In the thermal insulation
area, one of the engineering concerns is the possible reaction of the thermal insulation ingredients with
the plastic material which can cause cracking of the liner in service. This Project is providing the
capability of producing insulation samples in the laboratory for bench testing of physical properties and
thermal conductivity, as well as foaming cabinet, and liner assemblies, which are then subjected to
thermal cycling tests in a chamber that the laboratory now has. The assembly is alternately exposed to
low temperatures and high temperatures for several cycles which will accelerate the liner cracking
tendency if it is present. The equipment, personnel and technology transfer provided in the Project for
Engineering Development for Engineering Development will position this organization at a somewhat
higher technical capability level, where they will have the technical know-how and equipment to qualify
their specific vendors of the new substances. Due to the historically well-proven reliability of the
currently used products (CFC-12, Mineral Oil, CFC-1 1), this level of technical capability has not been
necessary in the past. Information supplied by their compressor licenses some indeterminate time in the
future will help to evaluate their design and material sourcing decision.
Manufacturing. Refrigerator manufacture is done at a factory in Eskisehir. It has three assembly
lines, each producing different sizes of refrigerators (in 1992, they are also running different models).
In order to accomplish a reasonable transition rate to non-ODS and still maintain the required production
levels, it will be necessary for them to run refrigerators with alternate refrigerants down the same
assembly lines at the same time.



- 20 -
Annex C
Page 3 of 3
As the charging equipment cannot be used alternately with the two different oils and refrigerants,
this Project provides for an additional set of oil and refrigerant charging equipment. The Eskisehir plant
has six polyurethane thermal insulation injection lines. The Eskisehir plant has six polyurethane thermal
insulation injection lines. This Project provides for the minimum modification required to convert these
systems to a high pressure blowing agent with the capability of converting one system at the time, such
that the phase-in can be accomplished over a period of time consistent with the risks involved.
Recovery and Recycling of Refrigerants
in the Istanbul Area and at the Production Facility
At present, approximately 412 tons of CFC-12 are used in the service and repair of refrigerators
in Turkey. There are between 90-120 service outlets in the country where such repair and servicing are
carried out. It is proposed that 15 of the largest service shops belonging to Arcelik, all in the Istanbul
area, install recovery machines and train personnel in the recovery of CFC-12 from refrigerators. The
installation will take place at three monthly intervals, starting 1993, so as to maximize the chances of
fimding the right equipment and learning-by-doing in terms of operations and training.
In addition, it is proposed that a reclaim facility be installed at Arcelik's main production center
to collect any coolant that has to be removed from the compressors because of technical difficulties that
arise.
Assuming that 35% of the CFC-12 that is present in the refrigerators is recovered, cleaned and
recycled, the 15 largest outiets should provide for the eventual reduction in CFC use of about 110 tons.
The central reclaim facility should recover around 10 tons/year. The importance of these savings will
grow over time, as the price of CFC-12 increases. Since production of refrigerators with CFC-12 is still
continuing, one can expect the demand for the substance to continue well into the next century. Market
growth estimates indicate a 10-15% increase in CFC-12 demand from this source. As the country
Program shows, the total cost of phasing out CFC use is considerably reduced, if effective recycling
schemes are implemented. (See Section XI of the main document for details.)
The program has, therefore, an important role to play in the efficient phaseout of CFC use in
Turkey. The lesson learned from this exercise should be great value in designing and implementing the
extension of the recycling program for CFC-12 through Turkey.



- 21 -
Annex D
TURKEY
Phaseout of Ozone DeRleting Substances Project
Proj]ect Costs  and  Financing.  1992-96  a/
(in US Dollars)
A.  investment Proiects (Arcelik)                                 Local           Foreign            Total
1.  Conversion of Refriserator Manufacturing
a.  Lab and Test Equipment                                   -         1,710,500          1,710,500
b.  Thermostats, Compressors & Related Eqpt.                  -           561,000           561,000
c.  Compressor Assembly Line                                 -           247,000            247,000
d.  Pressure Tanks and Related Eqpts.                         -          346,000            346,000
e.  Refrigerant Charging Stations, etc.                      -           735.000            735,000
f.  Technology Transfer                                      -           571,500            571,500
S.  Project Team                                       729,000                  -           729-000
Subtotal                                        729.000          4.171.000         4.900.000
2. RecovervlReclaims of CFC-12 in Field
a.  Reclaim Plant & Related Eqpt.                            -           250,000            250,000
b.  Project Team                                       150.000                  -           150.000
Subtotal                                         ismoo             250.000           400.000
3.  Recover/Reclaim in Factory                                    -            65,000            65,000
Subtotal (Arcelik)                              879.000          4.486,000         5.365.000
S.  Prevaration of Other Protects (TDF)                               -           500.000            500.000
C. Institutional and Mananement Strengtbenins (MoE)
Ozone Panel                                               30,000            100,000           130,000
ODS Monitoring System                                           -            40,000            40,000
Ozone Awareness Campaign                                  70.000                  -            70,000
ODS Regulatory Strategy                                         -            60.000            60.000
Subtotal (MoE)                                  100,000            200.000           300.000
Total (A+B+C)                                          979.000         5.186.000          6.165.000
Financing from the Ozone Trust Fund                        979.000          5.186.000         6.165.000
.J All costs are incremental costs of implementing the project
as part cf the country program.



- 22 -
TURKEY
Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances Prolect
Procurement Arrangements a/
(in US Dollars)
---------Procurement Method--
A.  Investment Prolects (Areelik)                                   ICB            Other 1/           Total
1.  Conver ion of Refriserator Manufacturing
a.  Lab and Test Eqpt.                                         -       1,710,500        1,710.500
b,  Thenmostats, Compressors, etc.                             -         561,000           561,000
c.  Compressor Assembly Line                                  -          247,000           247.000
d.  Pressure Tanks, etc.                                       -         346,000           346,000
0.  Refrigerant Charging Stations, etc.                        -         735.000           735,000
f.  Technology Transfer                                        -         571,500           571,500
S.  Project Team                                               -         729,0CO           729,000
2. Recoverv/Reclaims of CFC-12 in Field
a.  Reclaim Plant, etc.                                        -         250,000           250,000
b.  Project Team                                               -         150,000           150,000
3.  Recover/Reclaim in CFC-12 in Factory                           -           65,000           65,000
S.  Other Demonstration ProJects (TDF)                                 -          500,000           500.000
C. Institutional and Manaxement Strenxthenina (MoE)
a.  Ozone Panel                                                -         130,000 A/I/    130,000
b.  ODS Monitoring System                                      -           40,000 3/        40,000
c.  Ozone Awareness Campaign                                   -          70,000 3/         70,000
a.  OS Regulatory Strategy                                               60.000            60.000
Total                                                       _          6.165,000        6.165.000
S/ The estimated contract values also indicate the amount of financing from the OTF.
I/  Standard Industry Commercial Practice for Components A and B.
O/  Includes US$50,000 for office equipment to be procured local shopping; US$80,000 for the cost
of Ozone Panel meetings including travel costs of Panel Members.
I/  In accordance with Bank guidelines for the use of consultants (August 1981).



- 23 -
Annex F
TURKEY
Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances Proiect
Disbursements
Cateory                             Amoun                      Percent
1. aods                                              100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(a) Arcelik                     3,920,000         (ex-factory cost) and
(b) MOE                           50,000          80% of local expenditures
(c) Other Private Enterprises     200,000         for other items procured locally
2. Consultants' Services                             100%
(a) Arcelik                     1,445,000
(b) MOE                           250,000
(c) Other Private Enterprises     300,000
6. 165.00
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
[ Bank FY     1994      1995      1996
Annual     3.185    1.920      1.060
|Cumulative   3.185    5.105    6.165



Introduction of ODS-free Technology in Refrigerator Manufacturing
IjLIementation Timetable
ID   DESCRIPTIN                      _        01,1993 Ots2,1993 Ot 3.1903 Qb4,1993 Ott1,19941  2, 1994 O3, t9941t*r4. 1994  2r,1. 1995 Oir3, 1996O  .3 1995 Otr4. 1995
1 START OF THE PROJECT
2 COMPRESSOR
3 RedasIgn for 134.a                                       lilill            1 l          ill
4 Compressor prototype production                                               l m mmr    m
5 Setting up of compeessol test laclhltes                                                  
6Colotot and Ufa sts6                                                       i]IllLI
7 EvWlbn d compto ssw design                                                 trmTT    11111[                    Im      il] 111
8aChwg  an eompreson  prodiclnln  _Ig 
9 Pld produlio  1 34e & nt6etl ]m
10 INSULATION 
It SeUktg up el PU - aboratotsle
t2 Testing of altemate PU                              m                                           LL  l                                                                      I
t13 ChanesIn PtJ Inection a,III  IIIII1os[IEIllilt
14 Pitft pmductlon of non-CFC cabIneI 
15 RtER11ERTOR
1 a Sting up of tote. es fbe.tIofllt   J f       min
17 DesIgn methododogy for non-CFC trft.
18 Design chnges of reftdgtators
19 Redtgeteot tests                                                                            1     fl_                 -
20 Preparallon t reft. production Ihes
2t Pildt ptodution of nrCFC rtatdo1 
22 END OF THE PROJECT
oo :3
Cultice lY_                   Ptogees                        Funmary                       Rotted Up As
N4oncd iUcet                  Milestone +                    Mattied    0 
R.Azd: 65Mtare



Recovery Reclaim of CFC-12 in Field Service
implementation  Timetable
_        DESCFW'flON                  I t t, 1993 Otr2, 199S C& 3,1993   :4, 19    tu9, 1994  12. 1994 Otr3,t994 jii4.1994jOk t 011.095 2.1995 :C&3. 1995 Otr4. 1995 1Ot t.996
I START RECOVERY FPKOJECT
2 syme ofn Reb0  hl i   
3 Sooling up the rocovesy lab.
4 Putchase od. party of eovoeruns
S Training and evaluation on t.po._y
8 Purchase 0(L paty od revoery units  II
7 Traning and valuaion on 2p.Ity
8 PucIse of 3. pat of recovery units
9Tranling Nd evaluation on 3.pe.t_
10 Purchae of 4. pat of reovey unibt
1 ITraining and evaluation on 4.paty}
12 Puchase d 5. pas d tocovery unibs
13 Ttaining and evaluation on 5.pa._y
14 Puchase d ff. patty Of re0ovety unts           i'3
15 TraInig and evaluation on G.pa}ty
16 Purchas of declaim unit 
17 Tsting and evaluton o eclam unit
18 Rcaism uninOt i peration
19 END OF THE RECWE   PROJECT
Cditcad1                      Progrss                      &ummasy                       Rolled Up                                            0 o
NoncriticaI                   MIlestone    4               Maf ked 
Revised: 5wi



TURKEY
PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUDSTANCES PROJECT
ACTIVITY SCHEDULE FOR INSTITUTIONAL/MANAGEMENT STRENGTHENING
1 9 9 4
Jan.   Feb.  mar.  Ap.   ay   Jun    July
Purchase equipment
Set up ozone Panet
First meeting of Panel
Purchase  -onitorin- Equipment                         _1-1-_                                       -
Set up monitoring database<_ ->
Obtain quotations for films/books                          e
Issue contracts to mil maker/authors                       t                             _
Complete preparation of films/books
Identify Consultant for Regulatory Strategy                         _
Consultant prepares pretiminary report                                   .
Consuttant finatizes report                            _              _
Implementation Plan prepared                          <- 
Strategy Implemented                                    -      -
0



- 27 -                        Annex H
Page 1 of 3
Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances Project
Project Benefits
1.           The benefits of this project in the medium term relate to the reduction in the consumption
of ODSs, and in the long term to the phaseout of ODSs. As the benefits of the project are global, and
involve the reduction in health, agricultural and climatic damages, they cannot be estimated in the context
of this project. Hence it is not appropriate, or possible, to compute a rate of return for the net benefits
of the project. Instead it is necessary to take a cost efficient approach - i.e. to ensure that the projects
do in fact achieve the reduction in ODSs at least cost to society. In this context, the proposed 'project'
Is in fact a cluster of sub-projects which form part of the overall, national cost-efficient strategy for
achieving these objectives. Therefore, for each component, the cost per ton of CFC phased out was
estimated and compared with similar estimates in other phaseout projects. Where feasible, the
contribution of the project components to the overall strategy has been presented, both in qualitative and
quantitative terms.
Phase Out of CFC12 as Refriaerant Coolant at Arcelik
2.           The Country Strategy identifies the use of HFC134a as the appropriate substitute for
CFC12 in the compressors. It evaluates two strategies for the phaseout: one based on an accelerated
replacemnnt of ODSs by substitutes, and the second based on replacement of ODSs just in time to comply
with the allowable phaseout schedule. Although substitutes are more expensive now, and the technologies
less developed, there are substantial cost advantages to the accelerated strategy. The main reason is that
it prevents the build up of a large stock of refrigerators that use CFC 12, but that need to be serviced with
this increasingly expensive substance, and that have to be scrapped prematurely when it is no longer
available.
3.           In calculating the incremental costs for each of the two strategies, the following
assumptions were made about refrigerators:
(a)    Demand will grow at 1.4% p.a.; average life is 20 years;
(b)    Failure rate is 3% in the first year, 1% in the second year, and 10% each year from the
14th to the 20th year;
(c)    Additional cost of replacing CFC12 with CFC134a now approximately US$8 per
refrigerator, or 2% of the current price. This applies to a manufacturer like Arcelik
which makes its won compressors. For an importer of compressors, the cost would be
about US$6 per refrigerator; and
(d)    The cost of the coolant HFC134a in the above figure is US$3.50, which will fall as
substitutes become cheaper.
4.           On the basis of the above assumptions, the overall costs of the two scenarios are as
follows:
Incremental Phaseout Costs of Alternative Strategies
(US$ million, 10% Discount Rate)
Optimum             Allowable
Phaseout            Phaseu
Capital Cost              2                 1
Operating Cost          69                 31
Early Retirement
of Refrigerators      5.Q
TOTAL                   127              232



- 28 -                      Annex H
Page 2 of 3
S.           Thus, there is a substantial saving of US$105 million in present value terms in following
the optimum phaseout, compared to the allowable phaseout, arising largely from the savings in forced
early retirement of refrigerators.
6.           The prograrn for Arcelik is a key part of the optimum phaseout. Assuming that Arcelik
did not go for early development, but waited until the latest date for moving to HFC134a, the early
replacement costs could be as much as US$128 million. This is based on the assumptions that Arcelik
has 50% of the market, and will continue to have the same share. At the same time, the incremental
operating cost would fall from US$69 million to US$47 million.'/ Thus, there would be a net increase
in costs of phaseout compared to the optimum scenario of US$128-US$22 million = US$106 million.
To achieve a saving equal to this amount, the Project is incurring a capital cost of US$3.7 million (see
Section VI). This is not the total cost, but the actual ouday from the Multilateral Fund.
7.           Another way of lookdng at the cost of phaseout is to calculate the costs of 'immediate
substitution' of CFCs. According to the Engineering Assessment, replacement of CFC12 by HFC134a
will reduce consumption of the former by the present level of 148 tons/year. The capital cost of the
Project is US$3.7 million, which results in a unit cost of US$25/kg/yr. According to the engineers who
reviewed the Project, the 'costs for a low risk HFC134a conversion process could well be in the order
of US$50 or more per kg of CFC phased out. This...would involve all the equipment necessary for
testing and new production, all field tests, changes in production, ...plus technology transfer..".' In
view of this, the requested funding does not appear excessive.
Phase Out of CFC11 as a Foam Blowing Agent in the
Production of Insulation for Refrigerators at Arcelik
8.           Changing from CFC11 to CFCI1/water, with addition of polyol would reduce CFC use
in blowing by about half and would entail an increase in cost of raw materials of 2-3% according to the
Country Program. In the case where HFC123 or an alternative chemical is to be used, the cost is less
clear. Unfortnately, the Country Program does not provide estimates of the costs of phasing out CFCl 1
separately from other OD1Ss. Neither does it indicate the differences between the accelerated phaseout
schedule and the allowable schedule for this substance. Hence, it is not possible to calculate the
incremental cost savings for this component of the Project.
9.           However, it has been recorded that Arcelik uses 600 tons/year of CFC1 1, which is 60%
of the annual consumption of that substance throughout the country. The Project for phasing out its use
in Arcelik has a total capital cost of US$1.2 million. Assuming that initially it led to a 50% phaseout,
the capital cost would be US$4/kg/yr. If eventually the full phaseout materialized, the capital cost per
kg would be US$2/kg/year. By the costs that have been estimated in other countries, this seems about
right. For example, the Egyptian case study estimated a capital cost for flexible foam of US$2.261.3/
The technical reviewer also considered this component, including the costs involved, as reasonable.
1/    This calculation is based on the assumption that additional costs for Arcelik are US$8 per
refrigerator and those for other manufacturers are US$6 per refrigerator. If Arcelik has, and
continues to have, 50% of the market, its share of incremental costs will be 57%.
I/    L.J.M. Kuipers, "Re-review of the Executive Project Summary and Subcomponent (b),
Turkey's ODS Phaseout Program", 1992.
3/    K. King, "Financing the Phasing Out of Ozone Depleting Substances: the Case of Egypt",
World Bank Environmental Divisional Working Paper No. 1992-32, p. 54. Note that only
capital costs have been compared, as data on operating costs are not available for this project.



- 29 -                          Annex H
Page 3 of 3
Recovery and Recycling of CFCI I from Refrigerator Service Centers
10.          The benefits of a recycling program have already been pointed out. The Country Strategy
has estimated the savings in incremental costs arising from a recycling program as follows. It is assumed
that after 2007, recharge of refrigerators with virgin CFCs will be severely constrained, and that none
will be possible after 2010. The incremental costs cited in the previous section looking at component la
assumed no recycling. In addition, two recycling scenarios were considered. The first assumed that by
2000 schemes would be widely in place, and by 2007, 50% of all CFCs would be recovered from
refrigerators being serviced. This is referred to as limited recycling. The second also has schemes
widely in place by 2000, but assumes that by 2007, 75% of CFCs are recovered at the repair stage, and
25% at the stage when the machines are scrapped. This is referred to as substantial recycling.
11.          The effects of these programs in the net present value of incremental costs are as follows:
Incremental Phaseout Costs of Alternative Strategies
(US$ million, 10% Discount Rate)
Optimum          Allowable
Phaseout         Phaseout
No Recycling               56            200
Limited Recycling          34            117
Substantial Recycling       10            71
The above figures include the additional costs involved in the recycling.
12.          The program for recycling in this Project has to be seen as a pilot project which will
reveal the potential, as well as the difficulties in achieving the maximum effective rate of recycling. The
Project has an initial cost of US$550,000 for the recovery of CFC12 from the 15 service shops. the
expected rate of recovery is about 35% initially, amounting to 110 tons/year. That translates into a
capital cost per kg of CFC12 recovered of US$5/year. Again, comparing this to the estimated recycling
capital cost for household refrigerants in Egypt (US$9.5/kg/yr), the former looks on the low side.
However, there are some important assumptions about recovery rates that are, at best, only guesses as
to what can be achieved.
Instiution and Management Strengthening
13.          It is important not to underestimate the benefits of this component. The whole phaseout
strategy cannot be implemented, unless the Ministry of Environment and other institutions involved are
given the technical and managerial capabilities to carry out the program. At present, these do not exist.
Data still need to be collected and the issue of cost effectiveness has not been fully addressed. External
support from industrial experts, as well as economists familiar with these issues, will be essential.



- 30 -
Annex I
TURKEY
Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances Project
limetable of Key Project Processing Events
A. Time Taken to Prepare:         22 months
B. Prepared by:                    Arcelik, MOE with IBRD assistance.
C. Engineering Study Team          Mr. Adrian Rowan, Mechanical Engineer
(Consultants):                 (formerly with GE, USA),
Mr. Owen Scheldor, Compressors Specialist
(formerly with GE, USA), and
Mr. Daniel Madinabeitia, CFC Market Expert
(formerly with Du Pont Co.)
D. Bank Staff/Consultants:         Messrs. Raghuveer Sharma, Task Manager, (ECIIE),
Varadarajan Atur, Financial Analyst (ECIIE),
Anil Markandya, Environmental Economist (Consultant),
Sherif Arif, Sr. Environmental Specialist (EMTEN), and
Bilal Rahill, Environmental Specialist (ENVGC)
processed the Project;
Messrs. Donald Rhatigan (LA IEI) and Lambert Kuijpers
(OORG Expert, Phillips) were technical reviewers;
Messrs. Kenneth King (ENVGC) and Kenneth Newcombe
(ENVGC) were peer reviewers.
E. First IBRD Mission:             September 1991
F. Appraisal Mission Departure:    May 3, 1993
G. Negotiations:                   November 23, 1993
H. Planned Date of Effectiveness:    March 1, 1994
I. Relevant PCRs:                  None



- 31 -
Annex
TURKEY
Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances Project
List of Items in Project File
1.    Country Program for Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances.
2.    Engineering Assessment of Arcelik's Investment Project Proposals.
3.    Executive Project Summary with Minutes of Review Meeting.
4.    Pre-appraisal Mission Back-to-Office Report.
5.    Annual Report of Arcelik 1990 and 1991.
6.    Details of Arcelik's Procurement of Items Eligible for Retroactive Financing.
7.    Draft White Cover Memorandum of the Director with Minutes of Review Meeting.
8.    Appraisal Mission Back-to-Office Report.
9.    Draft Yellow Cover Memorandum of the Director with Minutes of Review Meeting.
10.   Draft Green Cover Memorandum of the Director with Draft Legal Documents



