Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
OTF GRANT NUMBER 021934
Ozone Projects Trust Fund Grant
Agreement
(Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Ozone Projects
Trust Fund
Dated January 24, 1994
OTF GRANT NUMBER 021934
OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 24, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (the Recipient) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT, acting as Trustee of grant 
funds provided into the Ozone Projects Trust Fund (OTF) by Parties to the Montreal 
Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer.
WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Trustee) pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the Executive Directors 
of the Trustee (the Resolution), established the Global Environment Facility, 
consisting of the OTF, the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET), and Cofinancing 
Arrangements with the GET, to assist in the protection of the global environment and 
promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic development;
(B) the Parties to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone 
Layer to the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer have established 
the Multilateral Fund (Fund) for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol to 
operate under the authority of the said Parties to provide the financing of agreed 
incremental costs to enable the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 5 of 
the Protocol to comply with control measures provided for in the Protocol;
(C) the Executive Committee of the Fund and the Trustee have entered into an 
agreement effective on July 9, 1991, pursuant to which the Executive Committee has 
agreed to provide funds into the OTF to be administered by the Trustee as Trustee in 
accordance with the provisions of the said agreement and the Resolution;
Page  2
(D) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance from 
the resources of the OTF in the financing of the Project, and the Trustee has 
determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the 
Resolution;
(E) a part of the Project will be carried out by Arcelik A.S., together with its 
subsidiary, Turkish Electric Industry A.S., with the Recipient's assistance and, as 
part of such assistance, the Recipient will make available through the Technology 
Development Foundation (TDF) to Arcelik A.S. a part of the proceeds of the OTF Grant 
as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend a grant (the OTF Grant) to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 
and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI;
(xi)
Section 12.03; and
(xii)
Section 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Trustee", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that 
in Section 6.02, the term "Trustee" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in 
its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the OTF Grant; and
Page  3
(v)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the OTF Grant Account.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Trustee and Arcelik A.S., as such agreement may be amended from time to time;
(b)
"TDF Grant Agreement" means the agreement between the Recipient and TDF, 
as such agreement may be amended from time to time;
(c)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement between TDF and Arcelik A.S., 
as such agreement may be amended from time to time; "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan 
from TDF to Arcelik A.S.; and "Subsidiary Grant" means the grant from TDF to Arcelik 
A.S.;
(d)
"ODSs" means Ozone Depleting Substances;
(e)
"CFC" means chloroflurocarbons; and
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The OTF Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the OTF Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to six million one hundred sixty-five thousand 
dollars ($6,165,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the OTF Grant may be withdrawn from the OTF 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank of the Recipient on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Trustee. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or such later date as 
the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
Section 2.04. The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment under this 
Agreement except to the extent it shall have received funds for the purposes of the 
Project from the Executive Committee referred to in WHEREAS Clause (C) of the Preamble 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, (i) shall 
carry out the Project through the Ministry of Environment, TDF and Arcelik A.S. with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
engineering and financial practices and with due regard to ecological and 
environmental factors, and (ii) shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) 
The Recipient shall through TDF cause Arcelik A.S. to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Arcelik 
A.S. therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken through TDF all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
Page  4
or appropriate to enable Arcelik A.S. to perform such obligations, and shall not take 
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(c)
The Recipient shall make a part of the proceeds of the OTF Grant 
available to TDF under the TDF Grant Agreement, and TDF shall relend a part of said 
proceeds to Arcelik A.S. as a Subsidiary Loan and shall make available a part of said 
proceeds to Arcelik A.S. as a Subsidiary Grant, under the Subsidiary Agreement under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Trustee and which shall 
include the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Recipient shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the funds 
repaid to TDF by Arcelik A.S. are utilized by TDF for additional ODSs phaseout 
activities in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(e)
The Recipient shall cause TDF to exercise its rights under the Subsidiary 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient, the Trustee and 
TDF and to accomplish the purposes of the OTF Grant, and, except as the Trustee shall 
otherwise agree, TDF shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the OTF Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Recipient shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Recipient shall, at the request of the Trustee, exchange 
views with the Trustee with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of OTF 
Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall promptly inform the Trustee of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant, or the performance by the Recipient of 
its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Recipient shall:
(a)
by February 28, 1994, establish the Ozone Panel referred to under Part C 
(1) of the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee;
(b)
by September 30, 1994, develop and put into effect the comprehensive 
system for monitoring the consumption of ODSs referred to under Part C (2) of the 
Project in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Trustee;
(c)
by March 31, 1994, prepare the draft strategy for the regulation of ODSs 
referred to under Part C (4) of the Project; promptly thereafter, furnish to the 
Trustee for review and comment said draft strategy; and by June 30, 1994, put into 
effect said strategy as agreed with the Trustee; and
(d)
carry out programs to increase public awareness of the issues related to 
ozone depletion and the importance of conservation practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause TDF to maintain records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
Page  5
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information con-cerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the OTF Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the OTF Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Trustee's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Charter or any other regulations governing the existence or the 
operations of TDF or Arcelik A.S. shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or the 
financial condition of TDF or Arcelik A.S. or the ability of TDF or Arcelik A.S. to 
carry out the Project or to perform any of their obligations under the TDF Grant 
Agreement or the Subsidiary Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Recipient will be able to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
(c)
The Recipient, or any other authority having jurisdiction, shall have 
taken: (i) any actions which shall adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or 
the performance by TDF or Arcelik A.S. of any of their obligations under the TDF Grant 
Agreement or the Subsidiary Agreement; or (ii) any action for the dissolution or 
disestablishment of TDF or Arcelik A.S. or for the suspension of their operations.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the OTF Grant Agreement:
(a)
the TDF Grant Agreement between the Recipient and TDF has been executed 
with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee; and
(b)
the Subsidiary Agreement between TDF and Arcelik A.S. has been executed 
with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee.
Page  6
Section 6.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the OTF Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Undersecretary of the Treasury and Foreign Trade of the 
Recipient is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Basbakanlik
Hazine Ve Dis Ticaret
Mutesarligi
Inonu Bulvari
Emek - Ankara
Republic of Turkey
Cable address:
Telex:
MALIYE-HAZINE
821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
Ankara
821-42689 (ANK-TR)
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA), 
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Washington, D.C., as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By /s/ M. Egilmez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
  as Trustee of the Ozone Projects 
  Trust Fund
Page  7
By /s/ M. Wiehen
Director, Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the OTF Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the OTF Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the OTF Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
   Amount of the
OTF Grant Allocated
   % of
   (Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed 
(1)
Goods:
100% of foreign
expenditures,
(a)
for Part A of     3,920,000)
100% of local
the Project 
 )
expenditures
 )
(ex-factory
(b) 
for Part B of       200,000)
cost) and 80%
the Project
 )
of local ex-
 )
penditures for
(c)
for Part C of
 50,000)
other items pro-
the Project
 )
cured locally
(2)
Consultants'
services and
training:
(a)
for Part A of     1,445,000)
the Project
 )
 )
(b)
for Part B of
300,000)
100%
the Project
 )
 )
(c)
for Part C of
250,000)
the Project
 )
TOTAL
    6,165,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $1,870,000, may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after Septem-
ber 1, 1992.
4.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
OTF Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to 
the Trustee for deposit into the OTF Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so 
used or the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist ODSs-using industries to effectively 
Page  8
and efficiently phase out ODSs usage through the adoption of policy, technological and 
monitoring measures.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
Part A:
Investment Projects and Technology Transfer for ODSs 
Phase Out
1.
Engineering development, including acquisition of production and testing-related 
equipment for the design, testing and introduction of a new refrigerant (HFC-134a) to 
replace existing refrigerant (CFC-12) in the refrigeration loop, and a modified foam 
system to reduce and eliminate the use of CFC-11 in the rigid foam insulation for the 
refrigeration cavity.
2.
Establishment of a program for the recovery and recycling of CFC-12 for domestic 
refrigerators through the existing network of domestic refrigerator service shops.
3.
Implementation of the recovery and recycling of CFC-12 from domestic 
refrigerators being serviced or rebuilt at a refrigerator production plant.
Part B:
Preparation of Further ODSs Phaseout Projects
Demonstration projects and/or related activities for (i) preparing further 
projects and (ii) monitoring of projects under implementation, which have a strategic 
significance from a technology or reduction of net incremental costs point of view and 
which decrease ODSs consumption.
Part C:
Institutional and Management Strengthening
1.
Establishment of an Ozone Panel consisting of about 25 national and 
international experts to advise on the selection of projects for ODSs phaseout and on 
the effectiveness of the regulatory framework.
2.
Establishment of a computerized monitoring system for the consumption of ODSs.
3.
Preparation of the framework for the regulation of the future use of ODSs.
4.
Carrying out of programs to increase public awareness of the issues related to 
ozone depletion and the importance of conservation practices.
*          *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
1.
Except as provided in paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured in accordance 
with established commercial practices acceptable to the Trustee.
2.
Office equipment for Part C of the Project estimated to cost up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $20,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Trustee. 
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
The Recipient shall employ management and environmental consultants whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Trustee. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Trustee on the basis of the "Guidelines 
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, time-based assignments, the 
Recipient shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of 
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as 
shall have been agreed by the Trustee. Where no relevant standard contract documents 
have been issued by the Bank, the Recipient shall use other standard forms agreed with 
Page  9
the Trustee.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Trustee review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
each. However, this exception to prior Trustee review shall not apply to the terms of 
reference for such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source 
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by 
the Trustee or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 
equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the OTF Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $600,000 
to be withdrawn from the OTF Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the OTF Grant 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the OTF Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee 
from the OTF Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the OTF Grant Account in 
Page  10
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the OTF Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered 
into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the OTF Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the OTF Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the OTF Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Loan
and Subsidiary Grant
1.
The Recipient shall provide through TDF to Arcelik A.S. a portion of the OTF 
Grant in an amount equivalent to sixty-two percent (62%) of the amount of the OTF 
Grant allocated to Part A of the Project, as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
as an interest-free, dollar denominated Subsidiary Loan repayable in seven years, 
including three years of grace. The Subsidiary Loan shall be used by Arcelik A.S. to 
cover the costs incurred in converting refrigerator manufacturing to CFC-free 
operations.
2. 
The Recipient shall provide through TDF to Arcelik A.S. a portion of the OTF 
Grant in an amount equivalent to thirty-eight percent (38%) of the amount of the OTF 
Grant allocated to Part A of the project as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
as a grant. The Subsidiary Grant shall be used by Arcelik A.S. to cover the costs 
incurred in recovering and recycling refrigerants and the cost of research and 
development for achieving CFC-free operations.  
SCHEDULE 6
Re-use of OTF Grant for ODS Phaseout Activities
1. 
The funds repaid by Arcelik A.S. to TDF under the Subsidiary Loan shall be 
re-utilized by TDF to finance the costs of other refrigeration equipment manufacturers 
as well as other enterprises for activities related to the phase-out of ODSs. These 
funds shall normally be used to finance small projects or parts of large projects to 
match available funds and to ensure quick implementation. TDF shall make funds 
available for selected projects on a grant, loan or part grant, part loan basis. TDF 
shall make funds available to finance components of selected projects which provide no 
commercial benefit to the enterprise on a grant basis and to components which provide 
Page  11
a commercial benefit to the enterprise on a loan basis. The loans from TDF shall be 
dollar-denominated, interest-free with a maturity of four to five years, including a 
grace period of one to two years depending on the project implementation period.
2. 
TDF shall administer the re-use of the OTF Grant, including the selection of 
eligible projects. TDF shall obtain the prior written approval of the Executive 
Committee of the Fund to finance loans, grants or a combination thereof, from these 
funds for any project estimated to cost in excess of the equivalent of $500,000. For 
any project estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $500,000, TDF shall submit 
project proposals to the Trustee for review, including any outside technical review. 
TDF shall select projects for financial support based on criteria satisfactory to the 
Trustee such as reduction in level of ODS consumption, cost effectiveness, etc. TDF 
shall employ consultants as necessary or appropriate in the evaluation and selection 
of projects for financing. TDF shall supervise and monitor the progress of 
implementation of the projects financed. The costs of administration shall be covered 
by the fee charged by TDF for its services which is about two to three percent of the 
amount of financing provided. ODS phaseout activities are expected to be completed by 
about 2005, after which the Recipient shall use the remaining funds for 
environmentally beneficial activities. 
