Report No. 1325a-IN                                                  REPORTS DESK
India                                                  ~~~~~~WITHIN
I nd ia                                                                ONEWEK|
Appraisal of
Kerala Agricultural Development Project
January 25, 1977
South Asia Projects Department
General Agriculture Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1                       =      Rs 9.00
Rs 1                              US$0.11
Rs 1 million (M)            =      US$111,111
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric Units are Used)
1 kilogram (kg)            =       2.20 pounds
1,000 kg - 1 metric ton            0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                =       1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)           =       0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)             =       2.47 acres
I square kilometer sq km   =       0.386 square mile
1 liter (1)                =       0.26 US gallon
ABBREVIATIONS
ARDC      -     Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
AUK       -     Agricultural University of Kerala
CB        -     Commercial Banks
CPCRI     -     Central Plantation Crops Research Institute
CRMS      -     Cooperative Rubber Marketing Societies
DCCB      -     District Central Cooperative Banks
GOI       -     Government of India
GOK       -     Government of Kerala
ICAR      -     Indian Council of Agricultural Research
IRB       -     Indian Rubber Board
KCLMB     -     Kerala Cooperative Central Land Mortgage Bank
KDOA      -     Kerala Department of Agriculture
4RMF       -     Kerala Rubber Marketing Federation
-KSEB      -     Kerala State Electricity Board
KSPC      -     Kerala State Plantation Corporation
LMB       -     Land Mortgage Banks (Generic term for all Land Banks)
PCC       -     Project Coordination Committee
PCS       -     Primary Credit Societies
PLMB      -     Primary Land Mortgage Bank
RBI       -     Research Bank of India
RSS       -     Ribbed Smoked Sheet
SADU      -     Special Agricultural Development Unit
SCB       -     Kerala State Cooperative Bank
SFDA      -     Small Farmer Development Agency
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .....................              i - iii
I.   INTRODUCTION  ....................................................  I
II.   BACKGROUND  .................................ooo ...           1
A.   Main Crops  ..., ........ .        ...............        1
B.   Other Crops ...................................          3
C.   Dairy Farming .......................... ..              4
D.   Institutions  ..............................................  4
III.   THE PROJECT  .       ...................................       6
A.   Project Description ....       .......................   6
B.   Cost Estimates  .....        ..........................    11
C.   Project Financing  .... ... ..............    ...    13
D.   Procurement and Disbursement ............ .......    14
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT             .......................    15
V.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS ........    19
VI.   BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION  ...............          21
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS          ............    23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
India in May/June 1976, comprising Mr S. Thillairajah, and Miss I.C. Girardot
(IDA), Messrs J. G. Ohler, K. S. Krishnan and A.A. Campbell (Consultants) and
on information furnished by FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program in its Report No.
35/75 IND 25 of August 13, 1975.
This document has A retricted distribution and may be used by recipient only in the performanc
of their official dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authoriution.



ANNEXES
1.   Agriculture in Kerala
2.   Project Scope and Size
3.   Smallholder Farm Development
4.   Cashew Development
5.   Seed Gardens
6.   Agricultural Research and Training
7.   Rubber Processing
8.   Project Costs
9.   Disbursement Schedule
10.   Project Organization and Management
11.   Project Implementation Schedule
12.   Banking and Credit Services
13.   Marketing
14.   Financial Projections
15.   Economic Analysis
MAP - IBRD - 12410



INDIA
KERALA AGRICUTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Agriculture in Kerala, as in most other States in India, is the
mainstay of its economy, accounting for about 58% of State income. Tree
crops mainly coconut, cashew and rubber and pepper cover more than 70% of
the area under cultivation. Kerala is the largest producer of these crops
in India. Yields are much below potential and are declining due to lack of
attention to their development. The large number of smallholdings is a
significant feature of the agrarian structure in the State, and a continued
decline in productivity would adversely affect the lives of most rural
families.
ii.       This project would have as its main objective the improvement in
productivity of major foreign exchange earning tree crops and pepper, with
emphasis on improving the economic status of the smallholder farmer. It
would cover new planting and rehabilitation of coconut with systematic inter-
cropping of food and other crops; pepper rehabilitation; cashew development;
establishment of seed gardens; and processing of smallholder rubber. Sup-
port to smallholders for agricultural development is offered mainly in the
form of long-term institutional credit and special extension services. Other
support services included are research, technical assistance and training.
iii.      Some 75,000 families in six out of the eleven Districts in Kerala
would participate. The project is expected to increase output on 45,000 ha
of smallholdings - 5,000 ha new coconut planting, 30,000 ha coconut reha-
bilitation and 10,000 ha pepper. About 8,500 ha of the coconut areas would
be irrigated from ground water permitting more intensive intercropping with
fodder grass and cocoa. At full production incremental output would be about
200 million coconuts (18,000 tons coconut oil equivalent), 6,000 tons pepper,
15,000 tons milk, 2,000 tons cocoa, 6,000 tons cashew and 37,000 tons of other
food crops. Rubber processing facilities, with ten small crumb rubber
factories, would not increase quantity but improve the quality of rubber
production by upgrading about 25,000 tons of low grade rubber produced by
50,000 smallholders into higher value technically specified rubber.
iv.       Seven year project costs would total about US$69 million (M)
equivalent. The foreign exchange component would be about 15% or US$10 M.
The proposed IDA Credit of US$30 M would cover 44% of total project costs
(or about 48% excluding duties and taxes estimated at US$7 M). Of the remain-
ing 56% (US$39 M), 10% would be financed by Central and Kerala State govern-
ments and 39% by the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC), lending banks and other participating agencies; and 7% would come
from smallholders' own resources.



- ii -
v.        The proposed IDA Credit includes US$20.7 M intended for long-term
lending for smallholder development (US$17.3 14), cashew development (US$1.0 M)
and crumb rubber processing (US$2.4 M). This would be made available to
project beneficiaries through the Cooperative and Commercial banking systems.
The granting of loans to beneficiaries would be planned and supervised by the
ARDC which would also undertake related refinancing. Smallholders and other
participants would contribute between 5% and 15% of their investments, bor-
rowing the remainder from the lending banks. Loans would be for up to fifteen
years, including a three to seven year grace period. Interest would be at
11%, the rate now applied to most agricultural schemes sponsored through
government banks.
vi.       Equipment for the nine new crumb rubber factories (US$2.2 M) would
be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA
Guidelines. Equipment for the Palai crumb rubber factory, farm equipment,
vehicles, laboratory and office equipment (US$3.1 M) would also be awarded
under ICB except when contracts could not be bulked at US$100,000 or more,
when they would be awarded in accordance with local procurement procedures
in which competition is assured by adequate representation of local suppliers
and local agents of foreign suppliers. Local manufacturers would receive a
margin of preference of 15% on equipment or the prevailing customs duty if
lower. Engineering and technical advisory services (US$0.5 M) would be en-
gaged in accordance with IDA guidelines for selection of consultants. As is
usual in the case of agricultural credit operations, ICB procedures would
not be suitable for procurement financed by loans to smallholder farmers
(US$34.9 M) comprising farm development inputs; about 75,000 farmers would be
involved, individual amounts would be small and the operation would be spread
over seven years. On-farm development for cashew and seed gardens (US$1.1 M)
would be carried out by State agencies on force account. Contracts for civil
works (US$4.8 M), because of their small size and scattered locations, would
be let on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally and in accord-
ance with local procedures which are satisfactory. The balance of project
costs US$5.0 M (excluding contingencies) would consist of staff and related
expenditures not involving procurement.
vii.      Coconut and pepper area development by smallholders and establish-
ment of seed gardens would be controlled by a Special Agricultural Development
Unit established under the overall control of the Kerala Agricultural Produc-
tion Commissioner. This Unit would also be responsible for project extension
services. Cashew development would be implemented by the Kerala State Planta-
tions Corporation; crumb rubber processing by Cooperative Rubber Marketing
Societies under the supervision of the Indian Rubber Board, and agricultural
research by the Kerala Agricultural University and the Central Plantation
Crops Research Institute. A Project Coordination Committee, with represent-
ation from all participating agencies and governments,has been established
under the chairmanship of the Agricultural Production Commissioner. An Eva-
luation Unit reporting to the Agricultural Production Commissioner, would
also be set up to evaluate project performance and benefits.



- iii -
viii.     The project would permanently improve the income of some 75,000
rural households, the majority of whom would belong to the poorest segment
of the population. Annual income of a family rehabilitating 0.5 ha coconut
without irrigation would increase from the present Rs 1,500 (US$160) by al-
most 100%; a family with 1 ha coconut, under irrigation and intensive inter-
cropping, would enjoy an income increase of about 300%, from about Rs 3,000
to Rs 10,000 on completion of debt service in fourteen years. The financial
rates of return to farmers are estimated to range from 18% to 49%. The rate
of return to the economy based on projected world market price, is estimated
to be 30%. With a 10% decrease in the project benefits the rate of return
would be 26%, and a 10% increase in costs would give a return of 27%.
ix.       Risks inherent in this complex project were considered and con-
servative assumptions made in regard to project phasing, costs, yields and
commodity prices. Risks not covered by such conservative assumptions are
judged to be acceptable in view of the benefits which would accrue to a large
number of comparatively small farmers and to the economy as a whole.
X.        The project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$30 M to Government
of India.






INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The project was prepared by the Government of Kerala (GOK) with the
assistance of an FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program mission which visited India in
the Spring of 1975. Assistance was also provided by the World Bank Resident
Mission staff in New Delhi and Bank headquarters staff. This report is based
on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission which visited India in May/June
1976, consisting of Mr S. Thillairajah, Miss I.C. Girardot (IDA), Messrs J.G.
Ohler, K.S. Krishnan and A. A. Campbell (Consultants).
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Several features distinguish agriculture in Kerala from agriculture
in other parts of India. Firstly it represents an even greater share of GNP
in Kerala than in the rest of India, 58% against the national average of 45%.
Secondly the high density of population (at 550 persons/sq km it is three
times the national average) results in much smaller holding sizes than in
other States. Almost two-thirds of the holdings are less than 0.5 ha. Farm
holdings below 1 ha account for 82% by number but only 34% by area. Con-
versely holdings of 10 ha and above represent only 0.2% by number but 13% by
area. The result of the smaller holding size is a State per capita income
rather below the national average. A third distinguishing feature is the high
intensity of land use. Some 60% of the State area is under cultivation
compared with 45% in India as a whole and a great proportion of this is
either under permanent tree crops or is double cropped. Fourthly a much wider
variety of crops is grown in Kerala than in other parts of India, many of them
only found in Kerala or closely adjoining areas of neighboring States.
2.02      The distribution of crops within the State falls into well defined
zones with distinct characteristics. Three natural regions that run north-
south are recognizable.   The highland is mainly under tree crops such as tea,
coffee, cardamom and rubber. The lowland, where not under paddy, the most
important crop there, is under coconut, and the midland is under a combination
of a large number of perennial and annual crops, often intermixed with one
another - arecanut, coconut, cashew, rubber, rice, tapioca, ginger, banana and
vegetables.
A. Main Crops
2.03      Coconut is a traditional crop of Kerala.  In 1975-76 the area of
coconut was about 750,000 ha representing 25% of the total cropped area in the



-2-
State and about two-thirds of the total coconut area in India. Though basic-
ally a commercial crop, coconut is also grown as a garden crop by smallholders.
Apart from providing nuts for domestic consumption as food, Kerala produces
some 300,000 tons or 90% of the country's milling copra. 1/ Only 50% of this
is milled in the State, which nevertheless has more than 1,100 oil milling
establishments. The coir 2/ industry provides direct employment to more than
600,000 people, mostly women. The crop also produces 300,000 tons of coconut
shell used mainly as charcoal fuel.
2.04      Most smallholders follow traditional methods of cultivating co-
conut. For instance only about 10% of farmers apply fertilizer. The result
is that yields are low and declining. Currently they average 4,000 nuts/ha
against 6,000 nuts/ha in 1969/70 and over 10,000 nuts/ha from properly cul-
tivated trees. A 100% yield increase has been obtained from existing gardens
by adopting good cultural practices (fertilizer usage, spraying and intercul-
tivation). By introducing irrigation a further 50% increase has been obtained.
A contributory cause of declining yields is the spread of root wilt and leaf
rot diseases which now affect about one-third of the area under coconut. The
Kerala Department of Agriculture (KDOA) does free spraying for root wilt in
two major protective belts along the northern and southern borders of the
diseased areas. Spraying for the control of coconut leaf diseases is also
done by KDOA on 50,000 ha annually; it is planned to expand the program to
100,000 ha. A spraying charge is collected from the farmers. In view of the
importance of coconut cultivation to the national economy and its significance
for the farming community of Kerala, GOK is implementing several programs to
raise yields, since land suitable for new planting is limited. "Intensive
Package Programs" (see 2.12) are being implemented by KDOA covering 93,500 ha
- 187 units of 500 ha in various parts of the State. Special assistance is
provided by GOI for this program.
2.05      Pepper, also an export crop, is grown mostly in the submontane
tracts of the Western Ghats in South India; 98% or 25,000 tons, comes from
120,000 ha in Kerala. It is mainly grown by small farmers often in
mixed cultivation with arecanut, coffee and cardamom. Average yields are
low at 250 kg/ha compared with 1,000kg obtained from plantations in Indonesia.
This marked difference is attributed to the use of unimproved varieties,
senile vines, diseases (slow and quick wilt) and inadequate cultivation
practices. KDOA is multiplying pepper cuttings of superior varieties for
distribution to farmers at cost.
2.06      Cashew is one of India's major foreign exchange earners. The
country itself produces about 140,000 tons annually and imports a similar
amount for processing prior to export. The import of raw nuts, however,
has been declining, from 193,000 tons in 1972 to 116,000 tons in 1975 because
India's main suppliers, Mozambique and Tanzania, are developing their own
processing facilities. It will be necessary to expand Indian cashew produc-
tion substantially if export markets are not to be lost. Kerala alone pro-
duces about 118,000 tons of raw cashew annually, from about 105,000 ha, or
1/   Dried coconut kernel.
2/   Fiber taken from coconut husks.



some 84% of national production. Cashew yields in Kerala at 1.1 ton/ha,
although about double the yield in other parts of India, can be increased
substantially with improved management. Kerala therefore provides the best
prospect for increasing national production. Kerala is also the center of
the cashew processing industry. With 264 factories it has 92% of India's
processing capacity and provides employment to 125,000 workers. It accounts
for a similar proportion of the country's US$110 M exports of processed
cashew.
2.07      Rubber plantings in India increased by about 50% during the twelve
years ended 1975-76 to almost 225,000 ha, more than 90% of which is in Kerala.
About 50,000 ha of this is immature. Some 70,000 ha of the mature rubber has
reached the end of its economic life. Under the Fifth Five Year Plan, uneco-
nomic areas are to be replanted at 5,000 ha annually under the ongoing Rubber
Replanting Subsidy Scheme managed by the Indian Rubber Board (IRB). Though
rubber yields have improved from 365 kg/ha in 1961 to 760 kg/ha in 1975 there
is considerable room for improvement. 1/
B. Other Crops
2.08      Garden Crops:  these are mostly food crops for consumption and
for sale in the local markets. They include tapioca, 2/ ginger, fruits and
vegetables. Tapioca, second in importance to rice as a staple food, is
grown on about 318,000 ha in Kerala. The poorer sections of the population
depend largely on tapioca for food. Varieties cultivated take from six to
twelve months to mature, yielding an average of 18 tons/ha. Ginger is also a
valuable crop grown extensively in Kerala, producing annually over 26,000 tons
on about 12,000 ha. Fruits occupy some 180,000 ha making Kerala the largest
horticultural State in India.  Vegetables are grown in almost all parts of the
State. Pulses and groundnuts are grown in rotation with other crops in the
drier areas.
2.09      Cocoa is a relatively new crop to India.  Total area is estimated to
be 6,000 ha, most of it planted since 1970. The Central Plantation Crops Re-
search Institute (CPCRI), situated at Kasaragod in the north of Kerala (see
map), has carried out a considerable amount of experimentation on cocoa
intercropping - varieties, spacing, shade and husbandry required (2.13).
Results from experiments in other countries are borne out by experimental and
field results in South India - that cocoa grown under mature coconut at a
stand of 175 trees/ha can yield 700 kg/ha of dry beans at full maturity in
the ninth and tenth years. The soil and climatic conditions are also well
suited for cocoa cultivation.
1/   Malaysian yields are more than 1000 kg/ha.
2/   Also called cassava or manioc.



-4-
C. Dairy Farming
2.10      Increased dairy production is an important factor in promoting
social and economic betterment. Systematic development of dairying in Kerala
began in 1952 with the launching of the All-India Key Village Scheme. This
was followed by the Intensive Cattle Development Project. It was not until
the Third Five Year Plan, however, that a concerted and comprehensive attempt
was made. The Indo-Swiss Project (a joint venture of GOI, GOK and the Swiss
Government) was set up in 1964 at Mattupatty with two specific aims: creation
of a new breed of cattle adapted to local conditions; and promotion of fodder
production. This project has helped to produce Brown-Swiss Cross cattle
suitable for economic milk production. Kerala is reported to have a breeding
herd of 1.3 million cows and 150,000 buffaloes. Cattle in the plains are
invariably stall-fed; as fodder is scarce it is supplemented by concentrates
which constitute the principal source of nutrients. Current annual milk
production in Kerala is 440,000 tons, yielding a per capita daily availability
of 52 grams compared with a recommended minimum requirement of 210 grams.
Dairying offers immense scope for development in Kerala as a means of subsi-
diary employment to the rural poor and as a source of much needed nutrition.
D. Institutions
General
2.11      Agriculture in India is a State responsibility, GOI providing policy
guidelines through the Five Year Plans, and funds as necessary through budget
allocations. GOI follows two approaches to assist States in the planning and
development of major perennial crops: for cardamom, coffee, rubber and tea,
through Commodity Boards which are quasi-government institutions with limited
autonomy under GOI Ministry of Commerce; and for other crops including areca-
nut, cashew, cocoa, coconut and spices, through Directorates which function
under GOI Ministry of Agriculture. The responsibilities of Commodity Boards
are wide and include planning, research, extension, marketing, and labor condi-
tions. The Directorates, however, serve to examine policy and prepare, in
consultation with State Governments, proposals for the Five Year Plans. The
State institutions directly concerned with the agricultural development are
the Department of Agriculture (KDOA) and the Department of Animal Husbandry.
Extension Services
2.12      KDOA and the Department of Animal Husbandry are responsible for
extension services relating to all crops (except those under Commodity Boards)
and livestock. In carrying out extension activities, these Departments now
follow an intensive area approach. Originally three extension workers, one
each specialized in agriculture, animal husbandry or cooperatives, used to be
assigned to a block to service about 30,000 farmers. In addition to being
required to serve too many farmers, these workers were entrusted with many
administrative tasks. There were also numerous unfilled vacancies. Hence
achievements were small. It soon became apparent that a new approach was



-5-
needed and the popularly named "Intensive Package Programs", were introduced.
These were designed to concentrate on a limited area and on major crops,
and involve applying modern techniques of farming, use of better seed, sti-
mulating the flow of credit and providing technical assistance. When Special
Package Programs are approved by GOI, GOK receives funds from the Central
government and engages the necessary staff. There is an adequate pool of
qualified graduates in Kerala with agricultural background and training
(Annex 1, paras 23, 24 and 25).
Research
2.13      Responsibility for agricultural research was transferred in 1972,
from the State Departments to the Agricultural University of Kerala (AUK).
All State Research Stations including those for coconut, pepper, cashew and
horticulture are now responsible to AUK. AUK carries out applied research,
and research findings are disseminated mainly through KDOA's extension staff.
Basic research related to plantation crops especially coconut is conducted by
CPCRI. The latter works on associations of crops with coconuts, particularly
intercropping with cocoa. CPCRI also organizes training for state extension
staff. KDOA is represented on the Boards of CPCRI and AUK. Research on
livestock development is being carried out at the Indo-Swiss Project.
Credit Institutions
2.14      The apex institution for short and medium-term credit is the
Kerala State Cooperative Bank (SCB). It works through eleven District
Central Cooperative Banks and 1,731 Primary Credit Societies at the District
and village levels respectively. Long-term credit in the cooperative sector
is provided by the Kerala Cooperative Central Land Mortgage Bank (KCLMB)
through thirty Primary Land Mortgage Banks (PLMB). The overdue position of
PLMB in the project area is satisfactory (Annex 12, para 2). Commercial Banks
(CB) are comparatively new to agricultural credit and their lending has been
mostly for short-term crop credit and medium-term investment credit.
Marketing Institutions
2.15      Marketing channels for most commodities are well established in
Kerala. Traditional channels are the village fairs, village merchants,
brokers and agents, wholesalers, processors, exporters and industry. Also in
recent years, cooperative institutions and government sponsored Corporations
and Boards have entered this field. In Kerala there are more than 2,000
market fairs, thousands of established private traders, and about 100 Co-
operative Primary Marketing Societies handling marketing at the village
level. The State Trading Corporation of India, Kerala State Cooperative
Marketing Federation, Kerala Rubber Marketing Federation (KRMF), and the
Kerala Livestock Development and Milk Marketing Board are some of the larger
government sponsored institutions actively involved.



- 6 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description
3.01      The project would comprise:
(i) new planting of high yielding coconut - 5,000 ha
in Cannanore, Kozhikode and Malappuram Districts;
(ii) rehabilitation of coconut, including replanting of
senile and unproductive trees - 30,000 ha in areas
free of root wilt disease in Cannanore, Kozhikode,
Malappuram and Trivandrum Districts;
(iii) provision of minor irrigation facilities in project
coconut areas - 1,000 ha in new planting areas, and
7,500 ha in rehabilitation areas;
(iv) intercropping in coconut areas - 26,500 ha of various
garden crops without irrigation; about 3,000 ha of
cocoa, about 3,000 ha of fodder for dairy cattle and
about 2,500 ha of other crops with irrigation;
(v) rehabilitation, including replanting of pepper - 10,000
ha in Cannanore, Idukki and Kottayam Districts;
(vi) rehabilitation of a State-owned cashew plantation of
2,280 ha and new plantings of 1,470 ha in Cannanore
District;
(vii) establishment of about 435 ha of seed gardens for coconut,
cashew, cocoa and spices;
(viii)  establishment of ten crumb rubber factories (nine new and
one expansion), each of 10 ton/day capacity;
(ix) strengthening of research by CPCRI, AUK and IRB, and
training and technical assistance; and
(x) provision of improved extension services and investment
credit facilities for project participants.
3.02      Activities described in para 3.01 (i) through (v) would be
carried out by small farmers who would be provided with credit and extension
and other support services. Credit would cover costs of land preparation;
planting, and replanting and rehabilitation; maintenance of plantings till
maturity; irrigation facilities; and dairy stock. The program would be
administered through the Special Agricultural Development Unit (SADU)
described in paras 4.02 and 4.03. Ground water surveys carried out by GOK



indicate that a minimum of 20% of areas identified for coconut new plantings
and 25% of the areas planned for coconut rehabilitation would be suitable for
intensive development under irrigation.
3.03      It is estimated that it would take up to three years from the time
of initiating activities in any single extension package unit before all
interested farmers started developing their holdings. Thus it has been
assumed that 25% of participating farmers would respond in the first year of
commencing project activity in their unit, 50% in the following year and the
remaining 25% in the third year.
3.04      Coconut Development.  Land available for coconut new planting is
limited and estimated at a maximum of 40,000 ha of which 5,000 ha would
be planted under the project. The plantings would be phased over a period of
five years (Annex 2, para 10). The recommended stand of 175 trees per ha
would provide sufficient space for intercropping. Coconut rehabilitation
would aim at improved maintenance, removing all unproductive trees and re-
planting as necessary. On an average, about 20 trees per ha would be re-
planted. The tree stand would be maintained at about 175/ha to permit
intercropping on a more systematic and intensified basis.
3.05      Coconut seedlings used for new planting and replanting would be
from selected local varieties raised in KDOA's 18 nurseries. Good quality
seed nuts are procured mainly from private farmers having good mother palms.
KDOA can supply over one million seedlings annually and would be able to
meet project requirements estimated at 1.6 million over 7 years and a maxi-
mum of 600,000 in any one year. An assurance was obtained from GOK that
the project would be supplied with sufficient planting material of good
quality. Cultivation practices would generally be in accordance with the
package of practices recommended by KDOA.1/ Systematic intercropping would be
encouraged in order to maximize farmer incomes. Intercropping under rehabili-
tated coconut, except in irrigated holdings where cocoa and fodder grass would
be grown, would be restricted to crops that can be harvested before the dry
season to minimize competition for moisture eg. tapioca, pulses and vegetables.
3.06      About 8,500 ha would be provided with irrigation through ground
water exploitation. Provision is made for new wells, deepening of existing
wells, filter points in sandy soils, and for the supply of pumpsets.
1/   KDOA, through its extension service units, recommends cultivation
practices for each of the major crops grown in the State. These recom-
mendations generally follow the "Package of Practices" published period-
ically by CPCRI for the respective crops. In the case of coconut,
controlled intercropping is recommended which generates an additional
source of income and also benefits the major crop by helping to control
weeds.



-8-
Pumps of 1.5 hp would be installed on holdings of between 0.5 ha and 1 ha.
Farmers with larger holdings would be given loans for 3 hp pumps. The pump-
sets would be powered by electricity which is available in all coconut areas
identified for project development. An assurance was obtained from GOK
that the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) would provide connections for
the pumpsets as and when these are installed. Funds required by KSEB for
completing such connections are included in project costs 1/.
3.07      Cocoa is grown as intercrop mainly in coconut and arecanut gardens
and also as a pure crop in partially cleared forest land. For optimum re-
sults cocoa requires light shade and well distributed rainfall. The dry
seasons in Kerala are long and economic cocoa production is possible only
under irrigation. Cocoa interplanting would therefore be limited to re-
habilitated coconut areas which would be provided with irrigation under the
project. Compact areas would be located for cocoa development to permit
intensive supervision and use of plant protection measures. KDOA nurseries
would provide Amelanado planting material. Planting intensity would be
about 300/ha.
3.08      Dairy Farming.  Trials carried out under the joint auspices of the
Indo-Swiss Project and CPCRI have shown that dairy farming under coconut is
very profitable. The facts show that 1 ha of coconut with irrigation can
produce a minimum of 37.5 tons of green fodder annually from interplanted
grasses. Ten tons of green fodder per annum is adequate to maintain a cow
also receiving about 1.5 tons of concentrate feed. Thus 1 ha of coconut
planted with grass would be able to support 3 cows. Project cattle would be
mainly Brown-Swiss Cross, supplied by the Indo-Swiss Project (para 2.10),
although in the initial stages, due to a shortage of Brown-Swiss Cross,
upgraded local cattle would also be used. Existing artificial insemination
and veterinary and animal husbandry extension services would be strengthened
under the project.
3.09      As most farmers would wish to grow food crops on about 20% of
their holdings, about 6,000 ha would be available for cocoa and dairying
on the 7,500 ha of coconut areas to be rehabilitated with irrigation.
This would be split equally between fodder and cocoa. Phasing of coconut
rehabilitation and intercropping is shown in Annex 2, Table 1.
1/   KSEB is a suitable recipient of IDA funds insofar as it is a beneficiary
of existing Power Credits. In accordance with assurance given in the
Third Power Transmission Credit (377-IN), GOK has agreed to provide an
annual subsidy to KSEB to cover any losses incurred in its rural elec-
trification operations.



-9-
3.10      Pepper Rehabilitation.  It is proposed to rehabilitate 10,000 ha
of pepper areas in Cannanore, Kottayam and Idukki Districts. On average,
50% of the existing vines in these areas are senile and uneconomic. Further-
more, these older varieties are susceptible to diseases. Rehabilitation
activities would include replanting 50% of the vines with high yielding and
disease resistant types and the introduction of improved cultural practices
as recommended by KDOA. Plantings would be made from rooted cuttings of
selected hybrid varieties produced in KDOA farms.
3.11      Cashew Development.  Project financed cashew development activities
would be restricted to the Kerala State Plantations Corporation (KSPC). The
object of this project component in addition to its purely productive aspects
would be to demonstrate the potential of cashew cultivation when using
modern varieties and techniques. The cashew component consists of three
elements:
(i)  rehabilitation of 2,280 ha of cashew plantation now owned
and operated by KDOA, but which would be taken over by
KSPC. About 10% of the trees would be replaced;
(ii)  new planting of 1,470 ha of cashew, on land to be
made available by the Forest Department. These new
plantings would be made and managed using the most
efficient production techniques;
(iii)  establishing a pilot plant in which to test the
techniques and economics of processing cashew apple.
Current production of this bi-product of cashew
production is estimated at about one million tons
most of which is wasted. The apple can be used as
a basis for beverages and preserves.
Assurances were obtained from GOK that KDOA's cashew plantation of 2,280 ha in
Cannanore District would be transferred to KSPC and that about 1,500 ha of
land suitable for cashew would be made available to KSPC for etablishing a new
plantation. Transfer of these lands would be a condition of disbursement for
this component.
3.12      Seed Gardens.  Although KDOA has established several coconut,
cashew, and pepper nurseries to produce quality seedlings for farmers, its
basic seed supply (including vegetative material for cuttings and buddings)
is inadequate and obtained from research stations, government farms and
private commercial plantings. To remedy this situation, the project would
establish seed gardens; there would be 300 ha for coconut (the major crop),
50 ha for cashew, 35 ha for pepper and about 50 ha for other spices and
cocoa. The coconut garden would be planted so as to produce high yielding
hybrid material of a cross between tall and dwarf trees. The cashew garden
would be planted with superior, high yielding, cultivars available in India.
For pepper, concentration would be on varieties which are highly resistant
to wilt disease. Assurances were obtained from GOK that it would make suit-
able land available for seed gardens. Transfer of such land would be a
condition of disbursement for this component.



- 10 -
3.13      Research, Training and Technical Assistance.  Research by CPCRI and
AUK is meager in relation to the importance of tree crops in the Indian
economy. Research efforts need to be intensified. Provision for research
made under this project would supplement activities already planned under the
Fifth Five Year Plan and includes laboratory buildings, equipment and supplies,
vehicles, research personnel and overseas training. Services of experts, to
be attached to CPCRI, would be secured for short periods totalling 18 man-
months. Overseas training would include that of five crumb rubber factory
managers of the Cooperative Rubber Marketing Societies (CRMS) and five senior
executives of IRB who would be associated with project implementation. Engin-
eering services, estimated at 27 man-months, would be obtained from specialists
in crumb rubber factory construction. Additionally, 12 man-months services of
a crumb rubber processing specialist would be engaged for periodic visits to
assist IRB in implementation work. Assurances were obtained from GOI that
arrangements for overseas training would be finalized in consultation with
IDA and that technical assistance specialists provided would be employed in
consultation with and with qualifications, and on terms and conditions accept-
able to IDA. Employment of consultants for engineering services would be a
condition of disbursement for the Rubber Processing component. Details of
research, and technical assistance are in Annexes 6 and 7.
3.14      Extension Services.  Intensive technical support would be essential
for successful smallholder operations and would be provided through strength-
ened extension services. The extension approach employed would be similar to
that followed by KDOA in its Intensive Package Programs for coconut and paddy
(Annex 1, paras 12 and 24). The staffing intensity at field level would,
however, be doubled in the project areas. Two Agricultural Demonstrators led
by one Junior Agricultural Officer would form a team and cover a package unit
of 500 ha or about 1,200 farm families - the staffing intensity at field level
being one extension worker for every 400 families during the initial three to
four years of development in any one extension package unit and to 800 families
thereafter until development is completed (2 or 3 additional years in one unit).
One Veterinary Surgeon and 3 Livestock Assistants per 500 ha of fodder grass
(supporting about 1,800 cows) would be posted in addition to the agricultural
officers (Annex 10, para 5). Provision has also been made for training, ve-
hicles for staff, low cost buildings in the project areas for administration
offices, and spraying equipment for plant protection campaigns. Following
GOK's current practice, motorcycles would be sold to staff on credit. The
Intensive Package Program approach is similar in its agricultural extension
aspects to the Training and Visits method recently introduced in other Indian
States. However, in view of its limited and scattered geographical coverage,
the project is not a suitable vehicle for reorganizing the Statewide exten-
sion service along Training and Visits lines.
3.15      Rubber Processing.  Total rubber plantings have increased substan-
tially in the past fifteen years 1/ and natural rubber production in India
1/   Encouraged by the new Planting Loan Scheme (1962), the Replanting
Subsidy Scheme (1957), and the special extension services, all
administered by IRB.



- 11 -
is expected to increase from 165,000 tons in 1975 to 205,000 tons in 1985
and 250,000 tons in 1990. About 90% of the increase would come from Kerala
where 60% of total production is from smallholders. Existing processing
facilities for smallholder rubber are inadequate. The product, mostly ribbed
smoked sheet (RSS), is of poor quality and fetches relatively low prices and
more than 20% of smallholders' rubber production is sold to remillers as
scrap grades at even lower prices. Under the project nine new crumb rubber
factories would be established and the plant now operated by the Palai CRMS
would be expanded.
3.16      The new factories would be sited so as to minimize collection costs
of rubber. Kottayam, as the District most densely planted with rubber in
Kerala, would have two of the new factories. Quilon District would have two
and one each would be located in Alleppey, Cannanore, Kozhikode, Idukki and
Palghat Districts. Exact locations would be based on special surveys now
being carried out by IRB to evaluate availability of scrap and latex from
smallholders, and the ability of the different CRMS to operate the crumb rub-
ber factories on a commercial basis. The Agricultural Refinance and Develop-
ment Corporation (ARDC) would finally appraise all proposals for crumb rubber
factories. Each factory would be designed to operate three shifts with a
total daily output of 10 tons. The Palai factory would be expanded to the
same production level. None of the CRMS has experience in managing major
industrial ventures. A first and essential step in the program is to arrange
for the training overseas of the potential factory managers, and the IRB
officers who would undertake project coordination and supervision. Addi-
tional support for factory construction and operation would be given through
technical assistance consultants to be employed by IRB (3.13).
3.17      All factories would be designed to produce Grade B crumb rubber
using 70% to 80% scrap grades blended with RSS/field latex. 1/ Each factory
would be equipped with testing laboratories so that all crumb rubber pro-
duced would be marketed as technically specified rubber. Construction of two
new factories and the expansion of Palai factory would commence in project
year two. Three more would be commenced in the following year. The remaining
four would be constructed in 1981 for commissioning in 1982. An assurance
was obtained from GOI that the locations and the timing of construction of
the nine new crumb rubber factories would be finalized in consultation with
IDA.
B. Cost Estimates
3.18      Total project costs including duties and taxes over a seven-year
development period are estimated to be Rs 619 M (US$69 M equivalent) of which
the foreign exchange would be about Rs 90 M (US$10 M equivalent). The follow-
ing is a summary of project costs; details are given in Annex 8.
1/   Grade B crumb rubber, consumed in largest quantities, is an in-between
quality, Grade A being the highest quality made mostly out of premium
grades, and Grade C the lowest quality made mostly out of scrap rubber.



- 12 -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(Amounts in millions)
Indian Rupees             US Dollars         Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
Smallholder Development                                                        10
Coconut New Plantings    26.5        3.0    29.5   2.9       0.4     3.3
Coconut Rehabilitation  125.8    13.9   139.7  14.0          1.5    15.5
Pepper Rehabilitation    76.6        8.5    85.1   8.6       0.9     9.5
Irrigation                 53.7      6.0    59.7   5.9       0.7     6.6
Sub-total           282.6    31.4   314.0  31.4        3.5    34.9        10
Electric Reticulation
(for irrigation pumps)   26.0       8.7    34.7   2.9       1.0      3.9       25
Seed Gardens               10.3      0.5    10.8   1.1       0.1     1.2        5
Extension Services and
Project Coordination    33.1        1.7    34.8   3.7       0.2     3.9        5
Cashew Development         15.4      0.8    16.2   1.7       0.1     1.8        5
Agricultural Research       6.0      6.0    12.0   0.7       0.6      1.3      50
Rubber Processing          20.5    20.5    41.0   2.3        2.3     4.6       50
TOTAL BASE COSTS   393.9    69.6   463.5  43.8         7.8    51.6        15
(subject to Contingencies)
Contingencies
- Physical                15.7      2.8    18.5   1.6      0.3      1.9       15
- Price (and rounding) 116.9    20.1   137.0  13.1         2.4    15.5        15
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
(including Contin-
gencies)              526.5    92.5   619.0  58.5    10.5    69.0           15
3.19      Cost estimates are based on findings during appraisal updated to
September 1976. Physical contingencies have been added at 10% on rubber
processing factories, buildings, equipment, seed gardens and cashew devel-
opment because cost estimates for these are not based on detailed engineering
drawings and factory and farm locations are yet to be finalized. Physical
contingencies are not needed for on-farm development by smallholders, but 5%
has been added to costs of extension services, research, training and techni-
cal assistance components. Price contingencies totalling 30% of base costs
(excluding physical contingencies) are also included, representing price in-
creases compounded annually on all cost-components except wages and salaries.
These are based on Bank guidelines for inflation rates in India and countries



- 13 -
expected to supply goods and services (Annex 8, Table 5). Costs of small-
holder farm development subproject comprise capital costs, net incremental
operating costs and any loss of income arising from uprooting low yielding
coconut trees and pepper vines. Such loss of income is estimated at
Rs 31 M (US$3.4 M).
C. Project Financing
3.20      The proposed IDA Credit of US$30 M (Rs 270 M) would meet about 48%
of total project costs excluding import duties and local taxes estimated at
US$7 M. The remaining costs of Rs 339 M (US$39 M) would be met by farmers,
ARDC and participating banks, GOK, GOI, CRMS, IRB, KSEB and KSPC. The
project financing plan is given below.
Summary of Project Financing
(US$ Millions)
CRMS
GOI &   ARDC &      KSEB
IDA   GOK      Banks /a   KSPC       Farmers   Total
Coconut Areas              11.4    -       11.5       -           2.5      25.4
Pump Energization           1.7    -        1.8      0.4           -        3.9
Pepper Area                 4.2    -        4.3        -          1.0       9.5
Seed Gardens                0.6   0.6        -         -           -        1.2
Cashew Development          1.0    -        0.5      0.3            -       1.8
Agricultural Research       0.6   0.7        -         -           -        1.3
Rubber Processing:
-  CRMS                  2.4    -        0.9       0.6                    3.9
-IRB                     0.4   0.3         -        -            -        0.7
Extension Service and
Project Coordination    0.4   3.5                                         3.9
22.7   5.1      19.0       1.3         3.5      51.6
Contingencies               7.3   1.9       6.5      0.5          1.2      17.4
30.0   7.0      25.5      1.8          4.7      69.0
/a   Kerala Cooperative Central Land Mortgage Bank, State Cooperative Bank
and Commercial Banks.



- 14 -
3.21      The IDA Credit of US$30 M to GOI would be on standard terms.  GOI
would make available to ARDC under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, US$20.7 M to
refinance loans by lending banks to farmers and KSEB for smallholder develop-
ment, KSPC for Cashew Development, and CRMS for rubber processing facilities.
US$2.0 M, would be passed on to GOK for allocation as appropriate to the
various agencies (IRB, CPCRI, AUK, SADU) concerned with the project. The
remaining US$7.3 M of the Credit would be left unallocated to meet physical
and price contingencies. GOI and GOK would provide directly US$7.0 M to
supplement IDA's contribution towards the seed gardens, research, technical
assistance to rubber processing and extension services components. ARDC
refinance would cover 90% of loans for irrigated development and up to 80% of
the amounts loaned for other purposes. The lending banks themselves would
expect the borrowing agencies to find 5% to 15% of the investment costs out
of their own resources. The lending banks would also provide short-term
finance for the working capital needs of all project participants (4.08).
Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and ARDC would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness.
D.  Procurement and Disbursement-/
3.22      Equipment for the nine new crumb rubber factories (US$2.2 M) would
be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Equipment for the Palai crumb rubber factory, farm equipment,
vehicles, laboratory and office equipment (US$3.1 M) would also be awarded
under ICB except when contracts could not be bulked at US$100,000 or more,
when they would be awarded in accordance with local procurement procedures
in which competition is assured by adequate representation of local suppliers
and local agents of foreign suppliers. Local manufacturers would receive a
margin of preference of 15% on equipment or the prevailing customs duty if
lower. Engineering and technical advisory services (US$0.5 M) would be en-
gaged in accordance with IDA guidelines for selection of consultants. As is
usual in the case of agricultural credit operations, ICB procedures would not
be suitable for procurement financed by loans to smallholder farmers
(US$34.9 M) comprising farm development inputs; about 75,000 farmers would be
involved, individual amounts would be small and the operation would be spread
over seven years. On-farm development for cashew and seed gardens (US$1.1 M)
would be carried out by State agencies on force account. Contracts for civil
works (US$4.8 M), because of their small size and scattered locations, would be
let on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally and in accordance
with local procedures which are satisfactory. The balance of project costs
US$5.0 M (excluding contingencies) would consist of staff and related expend-
itures not involving procurement. Draft tender documents for the equipment of
the new crumb rubber factories and contracts in excess of US$200,000 would be
submitted to IDA for approval before bidding documents are issued and bid
evaluations submitted before making the contract awards. An assurance was
obtained in this regard during Credit negotiations.
1/ All values stated under this heading exclude contingency provisions.



- 15 -
3.23      Disbursements from the proposed Credit would cover:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditure on imported items;
(b)  100% of ex-factory price of locally manufactured items;
(c)  100% of costs of technical assistance services
and overseas training;
(d)  50% of expenditures on locally procured items;
(e)  50% of loans disbursed to smallholders and KSEB
and refinanced by ARDC; and
(f)  50% of all civil works, and development costs
relating to cashew farms and seed gardens.
Disbursements for items in subparagraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) would be made
against full documentation. For items (e) and (f), disbursements would be
made against certificates of expenditure. The documents supporting the latter
type of disbursement would not be submitted to IDA for review but would be
retained by GOI and GOK and the participating agencies and would be audited
quarterly by the Government Auditor General. 1/ Such documents would be made
available for inspection by IDA during the course of project supervision
missions. Appropriate assurances were obtained from GOI and GOK in this
regard. A schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Annex 9. Any
amount not used for the project would be cancelled.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General
4.01      Coconut and pepper area development including intercropping, cocoa
cultivation, dairy development, related extension support and seed gardens
would be GOK's responsibility and implemented through a Special Agricultural
Development Unit (SADU) set up under the Kerala Agricultural Production
Commissioner. Cashew development would be undertaken by KSPC. Rubber pro-
cessing activities would be coordinated through IRB. Agricultural research
would be handled jointly by CPCRI and AUK. Investment credit to participating
farmers would be provided by KCLMB and CB; credit required for construction of
crumb rubber processing factories would be provided by SCB. The foregoing
credit would be refinanced by ARDC in accordance with conditions established
under ongoing ARDC credit projects.
1/   The Auditor General does not audit documents retained by ARDC.



- 16 -
Special Agricultural Development Unit (SADU)
4.02      SADU would be a new administrative entity under the Agricultural
Production Commissioner and staffed with officers transferred from existing
GOK Departments and new recruits. SADU would supervise the implementation
of new coconut plantings, coconut rehabilitation, intercropping in coconut
areas, and development of seed gardens. The chief executive of SADU would
be an officer at the level at least of an Additional Director. He would be
supported by four deputies at Joint Director level for specialized responsi-
bilities: Cooperative institutions covering agricultural credit and input
supplies; coconut cultivation and intercropping; pepper cultivation and seed
gardens; and finance and administration.
4.03      Project extension services under SADU would supplement existing
arrangements and be based on a package unit system (3.14). The number of
units proposed for the development under this project is deliberately modest
in relation to the total area cultivated under project crops. A total of
105 package units would be set up and there would be no problem in recruiting
special staff required for these units - about 400 at peak requirement -
from the available pool of agricultural graduates. As development is completed
staff would be transferred to other extension units in areas where SADU would
initiate similar developments based on experience gained in the proposed proj-
ect. For field level implementation, each of the six project area Districts
would be managed as a division. The seed garden operations would be adminis-
tered as the seventh division. Each of these divisions would be headed by an
officer at least at the level of Assistant Director, and supported by techni-
cally qualified staff as appropriate. Details are in Annex 10.
Kerala State Plantations Corporation (KSPC)
4.04      A new Project Department has been set up within KSPC to implement
the cashew development component. This Department would be headed by a
full-time Project Director who would be directly responsible to the Managing
Director of KSPC. Additional staff would be appointed both for the headquar-
ters and the field. Details are in Annex 4.
Rubber Processing
4.05      The crumb rubber factories would be owned and operated by CRMS and
KRMF.  Each of these factories would have staff for its processing and market-
ing activities and be headed by a trained Factory Manager. He would be respon-
sible to a Management Committee, reporting through the Chairman of the Society.
In order to assist the participating Cooperative institutions in their invest-
ment planning and project implementation and to coordinate all related activi-
ties, a Rubber Processing Department would be set up as a new administrative
entity within IRB. This Department would be headed by a project leader
appointed at the level of an IRB Director. He would be assisted by three
specialist senior executives and provided with supporting staff and facilities.
Details of staffing needs and terms of reference are in Annex 7 and Appendices.



- 17 -
Assurances were obtained from GOI and GOK that the processing factories
would be staffed adequately and that qualification, terms and conditions of
employment would be acceptable to IRB, and that the Processing Department
itself would be adequately staffed to carry out the functions stated in
Annex 7, Appendix 3.
Agricultural Research
4.06      Research work would be carried out by CPCRI and AUK.  The former
is a national institution, being a divisional unit of the Indian Council of
Agricultural Research (ICAR); the latter is, however, a Kerala State institu-
tion. The research programs proposed for both institutions would be coordi-
nated by a Joint Technical Committee headed by the Vice-Chancellor of AUK
and would include representatives from CPCRI, GOK, KDOA, GOI Development
Directorate and ICAR. This Committee would also evaluate progress of the
research work to be undertaken. Present arrangements for disseminating re-
search findings through KDOA extension staff are satisfactory (2.13 and
Annex 6, para 5). AUK would continue to carry the main responsibility for
adaptive research, and for training the extension staff. CPCRI will comple-
ment this by providing special training courses.
Agricultural Credit and Farm Inputs
4.07      ARDC which has satisfactorily operated several IDA financed proj-
ects, is a suitable channel for providing credit to all project participants
through its refinance operations (Appendix in Annex 12). Long-term credit to
participating smallholders would be provided by KCLMB and CB based on a bank-
ing plan to be prepared by ARDC. SADU extension service staff would counsel
the farmer and help him to prepare his development program and the loan appli-
cation. The loan application with the recommendation of SADU would be sub-
mitted to the participating bank for appraisal of the application and for grant
of the loan which would be disbursed to the farmer over a period, depending on
the nature of development undertaken. Long-term credit provided would cover
the farmer's investment costs, less his own contribution which would vary from
5% to 15%. The loans would carry interest at 11% and be for periods up to
fifteen years including a grace period of three to seven years. Interest not
paid during the grace period would be capitalized and treated as part of the
loan (Annex 12, Table 1). For short-term credit needs, existing arrangements -
seasonal loans provided by Cooperative and Commercial Banks - are adequate
and would be continued. Similarly, existing arrangements for distribution
of planting material, fertilizer and chemicals by KDOA are adequate.
4.08      Finance for energizing farmers' pumpsets would be provided to KSEB
by the same banks providing loans for the pumpsets. Long-term needs of
KSPC for cashew development would be provided by a participating bank of its
choice. Finance to CRMS or KRMF for construction of the crumb rubber fac-
tories would be disbursed by SCB. However, ARDC would refinance all these
activities according to terms, conditions and procedures to be specified in
a Refinance Agreement to be concluded between ARDC and the participating
banks. ARDC would prepare a project banking plan which would lay down a
program for strengthening the rural banking system. Preparation of a banking
plan satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.



- 18 -
Accounting and Audit
4.09      Agencies participating in project development - SADU, KSPC, IRB,
CRMS, KRMF, CPCRI, AUK - would prepare annual budgets, quarterly progress
reports and annual accounts, as they relate to project activities. Assurances
were obtained from GOI and GOK that copies of these documents would be
submitted to IDA as follows:
(a) Annual work programs and related cost estimates not later
than two months prior to the commencement of the financial
year; and
(b) Quarterly progress reports within one month of the close
of each quarter.
Project accounts prepared by the agencies concerned would be subject to
annual audits by the Government Auditor General's Office or other independent
auditors. Assurances were obtained from GOI and GOK that audit for these
agencies, satisfactory to IDA, would be made and that the audited accounts
together with longform and shortform reports with which GOI is familiar, would
be submitted to IDA within five months of the close of their financial year.
The auditing arrangements for ARDC and participating banks would be as have
been agreed for other Bank Group projects in which ARDC participates.
Project Implementation
4.10      A Project Coordination Committee (PCC) has been established with the
Agricultural Production Commissioner as Chairman. PCC would have representa-
tion from Kerala State Ministries of Agriculture and Cooperative, SADU, ARDC,
KSPC and IRB. PCC would have attached to it a full time senior official who
would function as its Chief Executive. He would be provided with necessary
support staff and facilities. Its functions will include: coordination of
procurement under the project; liaison with GOI, GOK and IDA; project monitor-
ing; and IDA disbursements. An Evaluation Unit would also be established to
follow-up project implementation, identify problem areas and evaluate project
benefits realized by participating farmers and agencies. Terms of reference
and staffing needs of the Unit and PCC are given in Annex 10. An assurance
was obtained from GOK that this Unit would be established not later than
September 30, 1977 and maintained for minimum ten years.
4.11      As timely establishment of the new agencies mentioned in paras 4.01
to 4.08 is vital to the successful implementation of the project, SADU, PCC,
and the Cashew Project Department in KSPC were established before Credit nego-
tiations. The Rubber Processing Department in IRB would be established not
later than March 31, 1977. An assurance was obtained from GOI and GOK, that
during the project period, all these agencies would be adequately staffed to
carry out the respective functions proposed for them. Project implementation
schedules agreed during negotiations are given in Annex 11.



- 19 -
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
Yields and Production
5.01      The largest production increase would be from coconut.  With im-
proved cultivation, yields would increase from 20 nuts/tree to more than 40
nuts in unirrigated areas and 60 nuts in irrigated areas. The incremental
nut production from the 30,000 ha to be rehabilitated is estimated to be 71 M
nuts at the end of the seventh year and 149 M nuts (13,500 tons coconut oil
equivalent) when all plantings reach maximum production 1/. All trees in the
5,000 ha new plantings would reach bearing stage ten years after project com-
mencement. With annual average yields, at full bearing, of 60 nuts without
irrigation and 80 nuts with irrigation, the annual production (all incremen-
tal) from new plantings would peak to 56 M nuts (4,500 tons coconut oil). 1/
Yield assumptions (see Annex 13, Table 3) and rate of uptake by farmers are
based on experience gained in implementation of ongoing projects (coconut) and
on data obtained from research stations and trials (cocoa, cashew and dairy).
Production projections are in Annex 13, Table 2.
5.02      Interplantings of cocoa  would come into bearing in four years.  As
cocoa is a relatively new crop to India, very conservative yield assumptions
are made. Assuming a yield at full production to be 650 kg/ha, annual pro-
duction of cocoa from the 3,000 ha interplantings would be 1,950 tons by
year fifteen. Intercropping with fodder grass for dairy cattle would result
in an increase in annual milk production of 15,000 tons. Incremental annual
production from other intercrops by year ten is forecast to be 26,000 tons of
tapioca, 7,000 tons vegetables, 300 tons pulses, and 3,300 tons ginger and
turmeric.
5.03      Present pepper yields in the project areas average 270 kg/ha.
Yields would be 1,100 kg/ha from the new vines and 650 kg from the rehab-
ilitated vines. Assuming a gradual improvement in yields in the 10,000 ha
replanted and rehabilitated, pepper production would more than double from
2,700 tons to 6,200 tons by the end of year seven and increase to 8,700 tons
by year thirteen when the replanted vines reached full production.
5.04      Cashew cultivation by KSPC under the project would have a signifi-
cant impact on yields - increasing from 165 kg per ha at present to 1,500 kg
in the KDOA farm to be rehabilitated and to 2,000 kg in the new plantings.
Annual production from the project area is, however, small in relation to the
total volume of cashew produced in the State. Additional production at full
bearing would be 6,000 tons compared with the Kerala's 1976 production of
about 118,000 tons.
1/   At the end of fifteen years from project commencement.



- 20 -
Markets and Prices
5.05      Incremental output of all products would be handled by existing
marketing channels, village markets and merchants, Cooperative Societies and
Federations, State Corporations, brokers, wholesalers, processors and ex-
porters - (Annex 13, paras 1 and 2). These channels are considered adequate
to handle project production but for milk. Project milk would be marketed by
the Kerala Livestock and Milk Marketing Board (Annex 1, para 30). The National
Dairy Development Board, at the request of the Kerala Board, is carrying out a
survey to plan new investments. By 1980, when project milk would become
available, adequate marketing facilities would be provided by the Kerala Board
(Annex 13, para 13). An assurance was obtained from GOK that the Kerala Board
would prepare a plan, not later than December 1977 to market milk from project
areas. Except for the incremental pepper and cashew output which would be
mainly exported, all production would be for the domestic markets. In the case
of rubber there is no incremental production under the project but 25,000 tons
of low grade rubber would be upgraded into technically specified rubber. This
crumb rubber would be marketed as far as practical through KRMF.
5.06      Market prospects and prices for project commodities are discussed
in Annex 13, paras 3 through 18. Prices used in project models and for finan-
cial analyses are based on Indian prices and have been projected by relat-
ing them to trends in international prices (Annex 13, Table 1) 1/. GOK has
projected that Kerala farmgate price for coconut would not drop below Rs 700
per 1,000 nuts 2/, as compared with Rs 300 based on 1976 world price which
according to Bank's projection, should increase by Rs 200 between 1976 and
1985 (from Rs 300 to Rs 500). Based on 1976 average world market price for
cocoa, Kerala farmgate price equivalent is Rs 13/kg. However, a lower price
of Rs 10/kg (equivalent of US$0.61/lb CIF New York projected by Bank for 1980)
has been used. Although the outlook for cashew is more favorable, 1975 aver-
age prices of Rs 3/kg has been used ignoring future possible increases. For
pepper a price of Rs 10/kg (also 1975 average) has been used. This price is
much lower than the recent high prices (Rs 16 to 20/ kg). No study of the
long term market outlook for pepper is available. A special analysis was
therefore made to test project viability at even lower prices for this com-
modity, the demand for which is inelastic. This test shows that prices could
fall to about 50% of present levels and investment in pepper remains viable
(Annex 15, para 11). Milk price is taken at Rs 1.60/liter, the price fixed by
the Milk Marketing Board, although current free market prices are 20% to 25%
higher than the Board price. Minor intercrops are priced at 1976 rates.
Financial Projections
5.07      The individual farmer's investment per ha would vary from Rs 24,500
when a farmer undertakes irrigated coconut rehabilitation coupled with dairy
1/   Prices used for economic analyses are discussed in Annex 13, Appendix.
2/   1975 average price was Rs 740 per 1,000 nuts, with a high of Rs 950
in January and low of Rs 550 in July-August. Projections for farm
models, cash flow statements and financial rates of return are based
on a price of Rs 700 per 1,000 nuts.



- 21 -
farming to Rs 6,600 for coconut rehabilitation without irrigation. The rates
of return vary from 49% for coconut rehabilitation without irrigation down to
18% for irrigated rehabilitation. Annex 14, Tables 1 to 6 show that if loans
were taken to finance the full amount of the investments 1/, they could be
repaid in full between years eleven and fifteen, even allowing for improvement
in the farm family's consumption levels. This would be adequate incentive
for farmers to participate in the program. Thus more than 45,000 farmers re-
habilitating their coconut holding of 0.5 ha or less would enjoy gradual in-
come increase (from a pre-project income of Rs 1,500) of 33% by year 5 to 100%
by year 15. About 8,000 farmers who would undertake irrigated rehabilitation
would however enjoy only moderate income increases of 10% to 25% during the
repayment period of 13 to 15 years; the investment would nevertheless be
attractive to them since equity built during that period would be high, be-
tween Rs 18,000 and Rs 25,000 and the well and pumpset included in this
investment would immediately improve their living standards because of the
availability of water for drinking, bathing and washing purposes. The rates
of return for seed gardens, cashew and crumb rubber processing are estimated
to be 13%, 22% and 34% respectively. The low return for seed gardens, a
public investment, is due to the low prices assumed for seed sales. This
assumption was deliberate since seed gardens are intended to render a profit-
free service to farmers. Rates of return computations and cash flow state-
ments for these three sub-projects are in Annex 14.
VI. BENEFITS AID ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
Principal Benefits
6.01      The major economic benefit would be increased production of crops
of major importance to the Indian economy. Most of them would be sold directly
for foreign exchange or cause savings in foreign exchange by reducing the need
for imports. Annual foreign exchange net earnings at full development from
pepper and cashew would be Rs 110 M (US$12 M); foreign exchange net savings
from coconut oil and cocoa would be Rs 125 M (US$14 M). The crumb rubber pro-
cessing component would make available technically specified rubber to tire
manufacturers and help lower their processing costs.
Indirect Benefits
6.02      The project would also give rise to other benefits which are more
difficult to quantify. Longer term production increases of coconut, cashew,
cocoa, pepper, and other spices would come from provision of HYV planting
materials to farmers from the seed gardens. The strengthened research activi-
ties of CPCRI and AUK, particularly in the field of coconut root wilt disease,
could make it possible to restrict this disease from spreading beyond the
250,000 ha already affected. The demonstration effect of the improved culti-
vation practices followed by project participants should spread to surrounding
1/   In fact loans would cover 95% to 85% of the future investments as farmers
must provide own contribution of 5% to 15% depending on the size of
farms.



- 2 2 -
farmers and increase incomes there too. Experience gained in this project
could benefit other areas in Kerala as well as in the neighboring States of
Karnataka and Tamil Nadu since the project is replicable. The irrigation
development on 9,000 farms will improve availability of water for domestic
purposes which may well be shared by neighboring families. Electric reticu-
lation related to these will permit connections to farmers' houses also with
all the related benefits of rural electrification.
Economic Rate of Return (ROR)
6.03      Costs.  Despite heavy unemployment in the State all hired labor has
been costed at Rs 8.00 per day for men and Rs 6.50 for women which rates are
payable under the State's minimum wages legislation. Family labor is shadow
priced zero because it is inconceivable that employment would be available
to family labor outside the farmer's own landholding. Project costs relating
to agricultural research and seed garden components are excluded from the cost
stream as the economic benefits, though very material, would be difficult to
quantify.
6.04      Benefits.  Prices used for import substitution crops (coconut and
cocoa) and for export crops (pepper and cashew) are Indian ports CIF and FOB
prices respectively. Long term prices used are in line with world market
prices as projected by Bank, whenever available. Conservative assumptions
have been made for crop production increases. Exchange rate used in the
computations is Rs 10.50 to I US dollar (rather than the ruling rate of Rs
9.00) to reflect the relative scarcity of foreign exchange.
6.05      Based on these assumptions ROR for the whole project is estimated
to be 30%. ROR for the individual subprojects are:
+ 10%      - 10%
ROR      costs      Benefits
Coconut new planting (unirrigated)    46            41        41
Coconut new planting (irrigated)        25          23        22
Coconut rehabilitation (unirrigated)  33            29        28
Coconut rehabilitation (irrigated)    15            13        12
Pepper rehabilitation                   27          25        25
Cashew development                      39          36        35
Rubber processing                       68         61         60
Return on coconut development with irrigation is low, in relation to unirri-
gated development. However, there would also be significant benefits from
improved health of the farm families and their neighbors through use of water
for drinking, bathing and washing purposes and these have not been quantified.
Sensitivity of ROR to variations in costs and benefits are detailed in Annex
15, Table 1. The effects of variations in labor costs, exchange rates, and
development delays have also been tested (Annex 15, para 10).
Risks
6.06      The most significant risk inherent in the project lies in the com-
plexity of the project itself, which would involve a number of different



- 23 -
crops, thousands of smallholder farmers, several government departments, co-
operative societies and national and State institutions. This could result
in some components of the project moving more slowly than others. Develop-
ment programs with relatively longer gestation periods and involving small-
holder farmers, as in the case of the proposed project, also raise risks of
inadequate receptivity. However, the risks i.rvclved were considered and
conservative assumptions made in regard to project phasing, costs, yields and
commodity prices. Measures to coordinate, monitor and expedite all phases
of implementation have been discussed with GOI, GOK and other agencies, and
necessary arrangements made. Risks not covered by these steps are no greater
than can normally be expected with operations of this type, and acceptable in
view of the benefits which would accrue to a large number of comparatively
small farmers and to the economy as a whole.
Social Benefits
6.07      Social benefits as a result of the project would be very substan-
tial: increased incomes (by 100 to 300%) of some 75,000 coconut and pepper
smallholders, the majority of whom belongs to the poorest segment of the
society (para 5.07); about 50,000 small rubber growers would enjoy higher
prices for their output. Some of the farmers would also benefit from
increased milk production and consumption and from increased output of sub-
sistence food crops. In all, some 700,000 persons would benefit directly,
being the family members of the participating farmers. In addition,
the project would create about 50,000 man-years of additional employment
during the development period and 13,000 man-years annually thereafter
because of the need for more intensive management and to cope with larger
outputs. There will also be additional employment in labor intensive in-
dustries related to project crops (oil milling, coir industry and cashew
processing). Persons other than participating family members might also
share in these increases.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, the following main assurances were obtained:
(i)  KSEB would provide electric reticulation for pumpsets
as and when these are installed (3.06);
(ii)  technical assistance specialists and consultants would
be employed in consultation with and on qualifications,
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (3.13); and
(iii)  the Project Evaluation Unit would be established not later
than September 30, 1977 and maintained for minimum of ten
years (4.10).



- 24 -
7.02      The following conditions of disbursement were agreed:
(i) against costs of cashew development, transfer to KSPC of
KDOA's cashew farm in Cannanore and about 1,500 ha of other
land suitable for cashew cultivation (3.11);
(ii) against seed garden development costs, transfer of adequate
land suitable for seed gardens (3.12); and
(iii) against costs of crumb rubber processing component, appoint-
ment of consultants to provide engineering services (3.13).
7.03      In addition to the customary conditions, the following have been
agreed as conditions of Credit effectiveness:
(i) execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between GOI and ARDC (3.21); and
(ii) preparation by ARDC of a banking plan satisfactory to
IDA (4.08).
7.04      With these assurances and agreements the project would be suitable
for an IDA Credit of US$30 M to GOI.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRIGULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture in Kerala
General
1.        Kerala, the southernmost State in India, is a long narrow coastal
strip between the Arabian Sea and the Western Ghats and lies between 8 N and
12N. It is 580 km long, and 120 km broad in the middle and 30 km in the ex-
treme north and south (Map IBRD 12410). Kerala is one of the smallest States
in India with an area of 39,000 sq km and supports a population of more than
23 million. The State per capita income is lower than all-India average 1/.
2.        Topographically, Kerala has three broad natural divisions running
parallel south to north: the highlands in the east, the undulating midlands
in the center and the flat lowlands bordering the coast in the west. The
highlands behind the Western Ghats range in elevation between 1,000 m and
2,500 m. The mountains are covered with evergreen forests; the lower eleva-
tions are suitable for plantation crops, and tea, coffee, cardamoms and to a
limited extent rubber are cultivated. These highlands are sparsely populated
with about 172 persons/sq km. The lowlands, in contrast, have a population of
1,385/sq km. There, in addition to agriculture, the main occupations are coir
making and fishing.
3.        The lowland region consists of a strip of land along the coast not
more than 30 km in width at any point, having a near level topography, with
sandy to sandy loam soils. Rice is grown in lower areas and coconut in the
higher elevations. Intercropping under coconut is common and a great variety
of crops, including pepper, are grown in coconut groves.
4.        Between the highlands and the lowlands are the midlands with eleva-
tions under 1,000 m. From the foot of the Ghats to the seacoast the hills
become flatter with gentler slopes and the valleys become wider. The soil
in this region is of lateritic type. The midlands produce a variety of crops
including rice, tapioca, banana, ginger, lemon grass, pepper, arecanut, cashew,
coconut and rubber. This region has a population density of 778/sq km. Cash-
ewnut processing is an important occupation in these areas.
1/   The most recent estimate of GNP per capita for India is US$150.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Climate
5.        Seasons in Kerala are defined by reference to the South-West and
North-East monsoons which are a distinct feature of the west coast of India.
The South-West monsoon lasts from June to August and the North-East monsoon
from October to December, having a rainfall spread of six to seven months.
The annual precipitation averages 3000 am with a small variation (below 20%)
from year to year. Within the State, however, the rainfall variation is
substantial. In the Trivandrum District in the South the average annual
rainfall is 2,000 mm while the average is as high as 3,580 mm in Ernakulam
District and 3,450 mm in the northern Districts of Kozhikode and Cannanore.
High rainfall coupled with tropical location generates high humidity, averag-
ing 70% in most Districts. High humidity throughout the year keeps evapora-
tion low and hence reduces the demand for irrigation water but also favors the
incidence of pests and diseases.
6.        Extremes of temperature are not experienced in most parts of the
State.  The mean minimum moves within a range of 19 C-26 C, while the mean
maximum varies between 270C and 370C. However, from the Western Ghats to
the seacoast, within 120 km, the climatic conditions show remarkable varia-
tion from humid temperate to humid tropical which enables Kerala to grow a
wide variety of crops ranging from rice, coconut and rubber of the humid
tropics to tea, coffee and cardamom in the colder climate.
Agrarian Structure
7.        Agriculture is the dominant activity, providing employment to about
60% of the working population and generating 58% of State income. Cultivated
area is 60% of the State territory. In more than 20% of the holdings, dairy
cattle are raised. There is little scope for extending the area under cul-
tivation as forests, hills and uncultivable lands spread over vast portions of
the State in the highlands. Hence the population pressure on the land in the
coastal and midland zones of Kerala is very high. Almost two-thirds of the
holdings are less than 0.5 ha (Table 1). Those below I ha account for 82% of
total number of holdings but represent only 34% of the total area. 1/ A number
of agrarian reforms are aimed at improving the socio-economic conditions and
include distribution of Government land to agricultural workers.
Tree Crops
8.        Tree crop agriculture covers about 70% of the cropped area in
Kerala making it the leader State in India in terms of total production.2/
Kerala and to a lesser extent the two other Southern States of Tamil Nadu and
1/   The landholdings in the project area are larger than the State average -
Annex 3, para 1, and Annex 12,para 6.
2/ Paddy covers 30% of the gross sown area.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Karnataka account for nearly all of the national production of tree crops
except for tea (Table 2). The cultivation of tree crops in Kerala is mainly
by smallholders.
9.        Coconut is the traditional crop in Kerala, now cultivated in about
750,000 ha, accounting for a third of the value of agricultural production.
Two-thirds of total Indian production of coconut is from Kerala. Grown in
homesteads and in holdings often mixed with other crops, it is typically a
smallholder activity; the average size of a coconut holding is as small as
0.2 ha and 95% of the holdings are under 2 ha. There are about 2.5 million
holdings in the State with an annual production of 2,700 million nuts.
Coconut is cultivated throughout the State under different soil conditions -
ranging from sandy seashore to clays and laterite soils of the midlands, to
forest soils on the slopes of the Western Ghats.
10.       Oil milling and coir -miaking, the two major industries in the State,
are dependent on coconut production. Some 300,000 tons, representing 80%
of the milling copra in the country is produced in Kerala. Half of this is
milled in Kerala, accounting for an annual coconut oil output of about 95,000
tons processed in 1,110 milling establishments. In addition, the coir indus-
try employs about 600,000 people for the manufacture of yarn, rope and mats,
mainly for exports (Table 3). The importance of coconut in the State economy
goes even further since no part of the coconut tree is wasted: the trunk is
used as building material as well as for making furniture, the leaves are used
for thatching houses, coconut shell and leaf stalks serve as fuel, and the sap
provides toddy and brown sugar.
11.       Average yields of coconut are low and declining - currently they
average 4,000 nuts/ha against 6,000 in 1969/70 and over 10,000 from properly
cultivated trees. Overaged trees, failure to replant, inadequate supply of
high quality seedlings and low application of fertilizers are factors which
have adversely affected production. Coconut has also been affected by a
number of pests and diseases. Root wilt, leaf rot, bud rot, leaf blight, stem
bleeding, Rhinoceros beetle, leaf-eating caterpillar and red palm weevil are
amongst the more devastating coconut pests and diseases. About a third of the
area under coconuts in Kerala has been badly affected by root wilt and leaf
rot disease. Considering the economic importance of coconut cultivation to
the country, the place that Kerala has in coconut production and the signi-
ficance it has for the farming community in Kerala, GOK has decided to en-
courage investments in developing this tree crop by rehabilitation and new
planting.
12.       In 1973-74, GOI sanctioned an intensive package program for imple-
mentation in three States including Kerala. As this program is capable of
increasing production of coconut quite rapidly, it has been proposed to ex-
pand and continue it during the Fifth Five Year Plan. Growers, mostly small-
holders, follow traditional methods of cultivation resulting in uneconomic
yields. It has been proved by research and results from field trials in
Kerala that a 100% increase in yield is possible if the improved cultural



ANNEX 1
Page 4
practices are adopted and a 50% increase can be achieved by irrigation in
the dry season. Positive response was obtained as early as year 3 of treat-
ment in existing package programs. The object of the program is to increase
productivity per unit area through an intensive production program. This is
to be achieved through:
(a) stimulating the flow of credit from various institutional
agencies to enable growers to apply the recommended dose
of fertilizers, to promote irrigation facilities and to
adopt plant protection measures;
(b) popularizing the package of practices to improve yields
through organized demonstration in the growers' fields; and
(c) launching a well-organized extension education campaign
to motivate the growers to participate in the program
with confidence.
13.       Cashew is one of India's major foreign exchange earners.  The coun-
try itself produces about 140,000 tons annually and imports a similar amount
for processing prior to export. The import of raw nuts, however, has been
declining, from 193,000 tons in 1972 to 116,000 tons in 1975 because India's
main suppliers, Mozambique and Tanzania, are developing their own processing
facilities. It will be necessary to expand Indian cashew production substan-
tially if export markets are not to be lost. Kerala alone produces about
118,000 tons of raw cashew annually, from about 105,000 ha, or some 84% of
national production. Cashew yields in Kerala, at 1.1 ton/ha, are about double
the yield in other parts of India but can be increased substantially with
improved management. Kerala therefore provides the best prospect for in-
creasing national production. Kerala is also the center of the cashew pro-
cessing industry. With 264 factories it has 92% of India's processing capacity
and provides employment to 125,000 workers. It accounts for a similar propor-
tion of the country's US$110 M exports of processed cashew.
14.       Pepper.  India with her production of 26,000 tons accounts for 35%
of the world output of pepper, and Kerala accounts for 98% of India's pro-
duction. Pepper area in Kerala is estimated to be 120,000 ha and the average
yields are low at 250 kg/ha compared with 1,000 kg obtained from planta-
tions in Indonesia. This marked difference is attributed to unimproved
varieties, old age of the vines, disease (slow and quick wilt) and inadequate
cultivation practices. Panniyur-I is a new hybrid variety developed for its
production potential with yields up to 4 times higher than the present average
level. The Kerala Department of Agriculture is at present multiplying pepper
cuttings - Panniyur-I and other superior varieties like Kalluvally, Kottanadan
and Karimunda - and distributing the planting material to farmers at cost.
15.       Other Spices.  Turmeric and chillies are produced in large quanti-
ties in the northern Districts. Small quantities of clove, coriander, nutmeg,
cinnamon, garlic and mustard are grown, mainly for local consumption. Most
of these spices are grown on household plots. Turmeric and chillies are also
grown as intercrops under coconut.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
16.       Rubber is an important crop in Kerala.  It is grown as a mono
crop mostly on the lower slopes of the Western Ghats below 300 m where agro-
climatic conditions are particularly suitable. The State is the largest
producer in the country, with 92% of the total production. Rubber plantings
in India have increased by 50% during the twelve years ended 1975-76 to almost
225,000 ha. Average yield has improved from 265 kg/ha in 1961 to 760 kg/ha
in 1975 although this is below potential - in Malaysia yields average 1,050
kg/ha. The smallholder sector now accounts for 60% of the rubber produced in
the State. The average size of rubber holdings is 1.2 ha.
17.       Cocoa.  Cocoa is a relatively new crop to India 1/.  All the
plantings are in South India since it is a crop of the humid tropics. Under
Kerala conditions the production of cocoa is suited to smallholder agricul-
ture, particularly as the fermentation of beans is a relatively simple process.
The total area covered by cocoa is estimated to be about 6,000 ha most of it
planted since 1970. However, a considerable amount of research and develop-
ment work has been carried out in India. The Central Plantation Crops Research
Institute (CPCRI) situated at Kasaragod in the north of Kerala, has carried
out a considerable amount of experimentation on cocoa intercropping-varieties,
spacing, shade and husbandry required. Results from experiments in other
countries are born out by experimental and field results in South India - that
cocoa grown under mature coconuts at a stand of 175 trees/ha can yield at
least 700 kg/ha of dry beans at full maturity in the 9th and 10th year.
Due to intensive extension efforts cocoa has come to have farmers' acceptance
in Kerala. The soil and climatic conditions are also well suited for cocoa
cultivation.
Garden Crops
18.       Tapioca 1/.  Second in importance to rice only as a staple food,
tapioca is grown on about 318,000 ha in the State often as an intercrop
in coconut and other tree gardens. It is also cultivated in most of the
homesteads. The poorer sectors of the population depend largely on tapioca
for food. Many varieties are grown with maturities ranging from six to twelve
months. Tapioca thrives on all types of land in Kerala from the coastline up
to an elevation of 1,000 m. An average yield of 18 tons/ha is obtained.
Due to the development of the starch industry, tapioca has become an impor-
tant cash crop as well. It is estimated that 60% of the production is con-
sumed as food, 20% by the industry and the remaining 20% exported mainly to
the neighboring States.
19.       Pulses.  Kerala produces about 14,000 tons of pulses grown on
37,000 ha. This is small in relation to the State's requirement estimated
1/   It does not yet appear in production statistics.
2/   Also called cassava or manioca.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
at 525,000 tons (at the rate of 62 grams per person). The State is therefore
encouraging the use of such legumes in crop rotation to increase their supply
and also to improve soil fertility. Often grown on the moisture left in the
soil after paddy, pulses are also grown as intercrops under coconut.
20.       Ginger.  India produces more than 50% of the world's ginger and
Kerala accounts for more than 50% of that. Kerala produces about 26,000 tons
of dry ginger from 12,000 ha devoted to this crop. It is usually cultivated
as an annual crop, often as an intercrop under coconut. It takes nine to
ten months to mature and every year a fresh crop is taken. The rhizomes
mature in December-January and are hoed up much in the same way as potatoes.
21.       Fruits and Vegetables.  The whole of Kerala is dotted with groves
of mango, jack, banana and pineapple. Similarly cucumber, pumpkin, gourds,
brinjal, tomato and other vegetables are grown in almost all parts of the
State for local consumption. The area under vegetable is estimated at 35,000
ha; average yield has been estimated at 10 tons/ha.
Agricultural Institutions
22.       Agriculture in India is a State responsibility, GOI providing policy
guidelines through the Five Year and Annual Plans, and funds as necessary
through budget allocations. GOI follows two approaches with regard to the
planning, support and direction of major tree and perennial crops - Commodity
Boards and Directorates. Responsibilities of the Commodity Boards are wide
and include planning, extension, research and even marketing in the case of
coffee. The Directorates, however, serve only to examine policy and to work
out proposals for the Five Year Plans in consultation with the State Govern-
ments.  Commodity Boards have been established under the GOI Ministry of
Commerce for cardamom, coffee, rubber and tea. Other crops including coconut,
arecanut, cashew, cocoa and spices come under Directorates which are organi-
zations of the GOI Ministry of Agriculture.
State Institutions
23.       Agricultural extension services:  In Kerala, the State Department
of Agriculture (KDOA) is responsible for implementing GOI and GOK plans and
policies and administers extension services relating to all crops except those
under the Commodity Boards (para 22). The Block, deemed to be the unit most
closely in touch with the farmer, had assigned to it three extension workers
each specialized in agriculture, animal husbandry and cooperatives to service
about 30,000 farmers. In addition to being required to serve so many farmers,
these workers were entrusted with many administrative tasks. There were also
numerous unfilled vacancies. Hence achievement at field level has been poor.
It became apparent that extension work had been spread too thin and a new
approach was therefore envisaged. A new development strategy, popularly named
Intensive Package Programs, was launched in 1973/74. As in the Training and
Visit System of extension supported by the Association in other Indian States,
its aim is to concentrate on a limited area and on major crops. Extension



ANNEX 1
Page 7
workers concentrate on cultivation techniques, use of better seed and fer-
tilizer application, plant protection, and stimulating the flow of credit.
When special package programs are approved by GOI, GOK receives funds from GOI
and engages the necessary staff, either by transfer or by new recruitments.
There is an adequate pool of qualified graduates with agricultural background
and training.
24.       The package programs introduced in 1973-74 related to the two major
crops of Kerala - paddy, through the Intensive Paddy Development Schemes which
have shown 40% yield increase, and coconut through the Intensive Coc6nut
Package Program described in para 12 of this Annex. For each two units or
1,000 ha of this Scheme, there is a field level team of two Agricultural
Demonstrators and one Junior Agricultural Officer.
25.       Supervision of all extension work within a District is exercised by a
Deputy-Director, with District Officers and subject-matter specialists. Three
Regional Joint Directors of Agriculture assisted by two Assistant Directors are
in charge of all activities in a region comprising three Districts. The
Regional Joint Directors function as the executive arm of the KDOA in the
Region to facilitate supervision of field work. Three Additional Directors
dealing respectively with food crops, commercial crops and planning at State
level assist the Director of Agriculture who is the ultimate authority in
KDOA. The Director of Agriculture is responsible to the Agriculture Pro-
duction Commissioner, who is the Chief Officer of Agriculture in the State.
26.       Research institutions in the State concerned with tree crops (ex-
cept rubber) are described in Annex 6. Rubber research is carried out by the
Rubber Research Institute of India (para 32).
Institutions Dealing with Animal Husbandry
27.       The Indo-Swiss Project in Mattupatty was started in 1964 as a joint
venture between GOI, GOK and the Swiss Government. The basic objective was
to breed cattle adapted to local conditions, by crossing exotic breeds with
indigenous animals. The program has proved to be successful and has helped
in providing animals suitable for economic milk production. Further work aims
at consolidating and improving the new breed - Brown-Swiss Cross. The bull
station managed by the Indo-Swiss Project produces now about 300,000 doses of
semen. It has also undertaken applied research for improving the natural
grasslands and introducing fodder species suitable for the farming system in
the State. The area of operation, initially confined to the highlands, has
now been extended to the other parts of Kerala, and research findings support
the feasibility of dairy development in the entire State.
28.       The Animal Husbandry Department is responsible for veterinary
services and extension. At field level, Veterinary Surgeons (equivalent to



ANNEX I
Page 8
JAO) and Livestock Assistants carry out extension work connected with
breeding, health care and timely vaccinations given at the farmers' premises.
The Department also carries out artificial insemination work through the Intensive
Cattle Development Project which followed the All Indian Key Village Scheme
launched in 1951. In all 400,000 inseminations were conducted in 1974-75
under this project but with only limited success.
29.       The Dairy Development Department started its intensive cross breeding
program in 1973. Under this program, in addition to the above field insemina-
tion units have been set up in 721 panchayats for conducting artificial insem-
inations using high quality semen. A total number of 85,000 inseminations
were made in 1974-75.
30.       There are therefore adequate facilities in Kerala for providing the
necessary artificial insemination services. However, due to lack of coor-
dination between the Indo-Swiss Project, Department of Animal Husbandry and
Department of Dairy Development there has been duplication of effort. Fur-
thermore because of inadequate extension, results from artificial insemina-
tion services were discouraging. Such duplication would be avoided under the
project by intensifying extension services and by coordinating artificial in-
semination services through the Kerala Livestock Development and Milk Market-
ing Board, created recently by absorbing the Dairy Development Department and
a section of the Animal Husbandry Department. The Board, wholly owned by GOK,
has as its main objectives increase in productivity of livestock by:
-    provision of crossbreeding facility (made available under
one agency);
-    production of concentrate feed in its own plants;
-    supplying fodder seed to farmers; and
-    marketing of milk.
Institutions Dealing with Rubber
31.       Indian Rubber Board (IRB), established as one of the Commodity
Boards, is responsible for all work on the production and processing of rubber.
The Board is attached to the GOI Ministry of Commerce. It has a full-time
Chairman appointed by the Central Government. He is the principal executive
officer and is responsible for the proper functioning of the Board and imple-
mentation of its decisions and discharge of its duties under the Act. Apart
from the Chairman, the Board has 24 members representing the Parliament,
Central Government, Governments of rubber growing States, large estates, small
growers, dealers, manufacturers, labor and other interests.
32.       The Chairman exercises administrative control over the Board's three
departments. The Department of Administration, apart from looking after gen-
eral administration and finance, controls the marketing of rubber, attends to



ANNEX 1
Page 9
labor welfare measures and collects statistics. The Rubber Production Depart-
ment is responsible for formulation and implementation of all development
schemes; providing supplies, extension services and training to small growers;
and undertaking economic research. Licensing and registration of rubber
estates and holdings are also the functions of this Department. The Research
Department is represented by the Rubber Research Institute of India which
carries out basic and applied research on important aspects of rubber produc-
tion and processing. It has at present four major divisions namely Botany,
Agronomy, Plant Pathology and Chemistry/Rubber Technology. The Research
Department also runs a crumb rubber processing pilot plant.
Rubber Marketing Societies
33.       Since 1960, IRB has been organizing Cooperative Rubber Marketing
Societies (CRMS) in order to assist the smallholders in the marketing of their
rubber. Today there are 36 CRMS of which 27 are affiliated to the State Rub-
ber Marketing Federation (para 34). Only 17 are working, the others are
defunct or transact very little business. Too small to-beweffective, and
operating in a highly competitive field where they represent less than 2% of
the total number of units trading in rubber, 40% of them incurred losses in
their marketing operations. With a few exceptions, the Societies made no
profit to pass on to the smallholder members. They do not have the competi-
tive edge over the village merchants. As a result less than 10% of the
smallholders' rubber is traded through CRMS although over half of them are
members of the very same Societies. IRB has envisaged a new approach to the
problem which is proposed under this project - integrating the processing and
marketing of smallholder rubber through CRMS (Annex 2, para 22 and Annex 7,
para 4).
34.       The Kerala Cooperative Rubber Marketing Federation (KRMF) was
registered in March 1971. Its membership consists of 27 CRMS, IRB and GOK.
Out of the paid up capital of Rs 2.1 M on June 30, 1975, Rs 0.15 M and
Rs 0.40 M were contributed by member CRMS and IRB respectively. The balance
of Rs 1.55 M was contributed by GOK. IRB has sanctioned a working capital
loan of Rs 1 M and KRMF has a cash credit limit of Rs 2.23 M from the Kerala
State Cooperative Bank. Total purchases of rubber during 1974-75 amounted to
Rs 4.13 M, half of which was sold directly to manufacturers through its sales
office in Bombay. KRMF runs a rubber fertilizer mixing unit. The Federation
also arranges for aerial spraying of rubber plantations by helicopters through
contracts placed with the Punjab State Cooperative Marketing Federation. KRMF
has yet to undertake processing activities. It has, however, indicated that
it will be able to own and operate up to three crumb rubber factories out of
the ten units proposed under this project.
35.       The Kerala State Plantation Corporation (KSPC) was incorporated in
1972. It is a public sector undertaking wholly owned by GOK which had contri-
buted Rs 4.37 M as share capital as of March 31, 1975. Its registered office
is in Kottayam and it is controlled by a nominated board of eleven members
including the Kerala Agricultural Production Commissioner. KSPC has mainly
rubber and oil palm plantations and is now developing on a smaller scale



ANNEX 1
Page 10
cinnamon, cardamom, cashew and coffee plantations as well. Of the 8,000 ha
of rubber, 6,000 ha is under tapping. The rubber is processed into smoked
sheets, latex concentrate and crepe in its own factories. Recently KSPC has
undertaken the manufacture of crumb rubber as well. During 1974-75, rubber
sales amounted to 4,187 tons. Agroclimatic conditions in Kerala have been
found suitable for oil palm and, under its program of 5,000 ha, KSPC has
planted 1,000 ha. The seedlings were imported from Malaysia and Nigeria.
KSPC has an installed capacity of 3 tons per day for palm oil extraction.
KSPC had, as of March 31, 1976, obtained loans totalling Rs 32.3 M from GOK.
Secured loans obtained from Commercial Banks arranged through Agricultural
Finance Corporation Ltd at the same date stood at Rs 9.5 M. Fixed assets con-
sisting of developed property, buildings, plant, etc. amounted to Rs 75.32 M.
Profit earned during 1974/75 was about Rs 5.75 M.
Other Institutions
36.       Small Farmer Development Agency (SFDA).  During the Fourth Five
Year Plan, SFDA Schemes were established in 87 Districts throughout India,
including the Districts of Cannanore and Quilon in Kerala. SFDA is engaged in
drawing up Schemes designed to improve the productivity of small and marginal
farmers (in Kerala small farmers are defined as having holdings between one
and two hectares; a marginal farmer has up to one hectare). While assistance
to farmers includes arranging for the supply of inputs and services and for
the establishment of processing and marketing facilities required, SFDA is
primarily responsible for the distribution of GOI subsidies. Subsidies of
25% for small farmers and 33-1/3% for marginal farmers are given towards the
cost of minor irrigation facilities and animal husbandry investments financed
by the Cooperative and Commercial Banks. In two first SFDA Districts, over
a period of five years a total of 3,200 pumpsets, 4,100 wells and 60 filter
points were financed. Since August 1975, Trivandrum and Trichur Districts
have also been covered. During a period of five years SFDA are expected to
invest Rs 15 M and help 7,000 small farmers and 43,000 marginal farmers in
each District.
37.       Credit Institutions are discussed in Annex 12 and marketing insti-
tutions in Annex 13.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Size, Number, and Area of Holdings in Kerala, 1970/71
Number               Area
Holding Size                     ('000)   (%)       ('000 ha)  (%)
(ha)
0.04 - 0.25                     1,081      47         127        8
0.25 - 0.50                        431     19         154       10
0.50 - 1.00                        368     16         258       16
1.00 - 2.00                        268     12         365       23
2.00 - 3.00                         87      4         207       13
3.00 - 4.00                         38      2         132        8
4.00 - 5.00                         12     -           54        3
5.00 - 10.00                        15     -           96        6
10.00 & above                         4     -          201       13
0.04 & above                    2,305   100         1,593      100
Below 0.04                         518                 14
Source: Agricultural Census, 1971-72.
October 8, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table Z
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area and Production of Major Tree Crops in Kerala, 1973/74
Area                          Production
Crop              All Indian       Kerala          All Indian      Kerala
'000 ha    '000 ha    %          1000 ton   '000 ton   %
Arecanut 1/         176.6        88.7    50           151.7        54.6    36
Cardamom             75.9        47.5    62             3.2         1.5    47
Cashew              234.0       105.0    21          140.0       117.7    84
Coconut 1/ 2/    1,098.4        745.5    68        5,954.0    3,920.9    66
Coffee              146.5        31.9    22            91.0        10.9    12
Pepper              121.7       118.2    97            26.3       25.2    96
Rubber              217.5       199.6    92           125.1      114.7    92
Tea 1/              358.7        37.3    10           455.5       45.5    10
1/ 1972/73.
2/ Million nuts.
Source: GOK Bureau of Economics and Statistics.
November 19, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 3
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coir Industry - Composition of Coir Exports from India
Quantity in Tons
Value in Rs Millions
1972-73                1973-74                1974-75
Commodity            Quantity   Value       Quantity   Value        Quantity   Value
Coir Fiber              298      0.46           276     0.30           161      0.30
Coir Yarn            31,924    81.80        29,373    82.20         24,400    82.60
Coir Mats            12,742    52.60        12,302    57.30         11,321    64.60
Coir Mattings
Rugs, Carpets       3,648    13.20         3,457    14.00          5,049    26.33
etc.
Coir Rope               104      0.10           140     0.20           138      0.35
Coiled Coir             773     0.90         1,208      1.50           761      1.00
Rubberized Coir
Goods                           -               3     0.04             6     0.02
Source: Coir Board, Ernakulam.
October 15, 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Scope and Size
General
1.        This Annex discusses briefly the project rationale and the strategy
adopted to secure optimum benefits. The project thrust is improvement of the
economic status of smallholder farmers in Kerala. This project has been
planned by GOK to be a catalytic phase in the agricultural development of the
State. Although 'tree crops'l/ are the main project base, development of other
crops in the chosen coconut areas has been included to provide support for all
agricultural activities of the participating smallholders.
2.        GOI's decision to increase the allocation of resources to the devel-
opment of tree crops agriculture recognizes that:
(i) with emphasis placed in past years on annual food crops,
in particular cereals and pulses, tree crop agriculture
generally got less attention and faces declining pro-
ductivity;
(ii) with few exceptions, the output of perennial crops has
stagnated or shown only a modest growth, and consequently
has failed to make its most effective contribution to
foreign exchange earnings/savings;
(iii) tree crop cultivation in India is mainly a smallholder
operation and any improvement in that sub-sector would
affect a large number of small farmers; the processing
of most of these crops continues to be very labor-
intensive, with potential to generate employment; and
(iv) except for tea, the production of perennials is con-
centrated in South India, mainly Kerala, where the
average per capita income is below national average.
3.        Project investments would cover:
-    planting of coconut in new areas;
-    rehabilitation including replanting of coconut;
-    intensive intercropping including cocoa and fodder
for dairy cattle under coconut;
1/   Including pepper - the pepper vine requires tree support.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
rehabilitation including replanting of pepper;
new planting and rehabilitation of cashew, and pilot plant
for cashew apple processing;
-    seed gardens for coconut, cashew, cocoa and spices;
-    crumb rubber factories for processing rubber produced
by smallholders; and
-    extension services, technical assistance, research and
training related to the foregoing activities.
Development Plans
4.        GOI and GOK have long recognized the need to improve yields and
help farmers by removing known handicaps and discovering others which impede
higher productivity. Efforts already made are described in Annex 1. The
agricultural development planned under this project encompasses supply of
improved planting materials, scientific management including fertilizer
application and plant protection, irrigation where available, systematic
and intensive intercropping, research and extension service, and provision
of credit to smallholders enabling them to undertake the development without
necessarily having to curtail their current level of consumption.
5.        In cashew development, however, it is planned also to demonstrate
the benefits of systematic cultivation which unwittingly has not been given
the proper attention that a high value crop of its type rightly deserves.
The new techniques to be adopted in cashew cultivation (Annex 4) are best
demonstrated by an institution with financial capacity and not by smallholders
with limited resources.
Project Location
6.        For the smallholder development, an area approach, on a package
system - each package unit covering 500 ha, has been adopted. Area selection
is based on special surveys carried out for this purpose by GOK. 1/ The more
important factors which governed the choice of project area locations were
availability of suitable land; incidence of plant diseases; senility and low
productivity of plantings; keenness of farmers to participate; receptiveness
by farmers to extension service advice; availability of adequate ground water
for irrigated development; and availability of contiguous areas suitable for
the proposed type of development.
7.        The project locations chosen on the foregoing considerations are:
-    for coconut new planting, 10 package units (5,000 ha) in Cannanore,
Kozhikode and Malappuram Districts;
1/   Bench mark survey carried out by the Kerala Department of Agriculture
in the Spring of 1976.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
for coconut rehabilitation, 75 package units (37,500 ha) 1/ in
Cannanore, Kozhikode, Malappuram and Trivandrum Districts in
areas free of root wilt disease; and
for pepper rehabilitation, 20 package units (10,000 ha) in
Cannanore, Idukki and Kottayam. 2/
8         The number of units proposed for the development under this project
is deliberately modest in relation to the total area cultivated under each of
these crops. In order to make the area approach and total development package
work, it is essential for the extension support to be adequate. A total of
105 package units was considered to be a comfortable target for this first
phase the success of which should provide the confidence needed for subsequent
larger scale activity and also to demonstrate to smallholders the need and the
mode to improve cultural practices and yields.
Project Phasing
9.        Conservative assumptions have been made in regard to GOK's capacity
to arrange for the recruitment and training of managerial and extension staff
of appropriate caliber in adequate numbers. Similarly due allowance has been
made for the probability that all participating farmers in a package unit of
500 ha would not respond spontaneously. It has been estimated that 25% of the
participating farmers in a package unit would respond in the initial year, 50%
in the following year and the remaining 25% in the third year of commencing
work in that package unit. GOK is capable of arranging staff and facilities
to commence work in 22 units in project year one, 55 in the year two and 28
in year 3 (Table 1).
10.       The smallholder development is planned as follows: 3/
1/   With an estimated 80% farmer response area rehabilitated would effectively
be 30,000 ha.
2/   Cashew development by Kerala State Plantations Corporation - 2,280 ha
for rehabilitation and 1,470 ha new planting, would be located in
the Cannanore District (Annex 4).
3/   See Annex 4 for phasing of cashew development.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Coconut
New              Coconut            Pepper
Planting         Rehabilitation    Rehabilitation
(Ha)              (Ha)               (Ha)
Year 1                   250              1,500              625
Year 2                1,125               7,000            2,500
Year 3                1,875              11,500            3,750
Year 4                1,375               8,000            2,500
Year 5                  375               2,000              625
Total            5,000             30,000           10,000
Coconut
11.       Despite an increase of about 50,000 ha in coconut planted area
between 1970 and 1975, total production has dropped from about 4,000 to
3,700 million nuts. Increased production is essential if India is to avoid
imports to satisfy the growing local demand for coconut oil. This could
be achieved by:
-    increasing the area under coconut, but in Kerala
little new land is available for coconut plantings;
rehabilitation of existing areas by adopting improved
agricultural practices including timely and regular
fertilization and plant protection operations offer
greater possibilities of increased yields over the
short run than new planting;
-    replanting with high yielding and disease resistant variety
seedlings to replace the senile and unproductive trees in
the existing coconut areas;
-    introduction of irrigation facilities where ground water
availability has been proved; and
-    systematic intercropping with high value crops so as to support
new investments to be undertaken by the farmer and to afford
him a better standard of living; cocoa and fodder could be
grown profitably in areas where irrigation facilities
could be made available.
12.       Thus the strategy for coconut development proposed under this pro-
ject is a combination of all foregoing aspects (details in Annex 3).
Irrigation and Energization of Pumpsets
13.       Kerala in general receives precipitation from the South-West as
well as North-East monsoons, and rainfall is spread over six to seven months'



ANNEX 2
Page 5
of the year. However, there are many parts in the State, specially in the
north, which suffer from drought. It is easier to establish the new coconut
plants where irrigation is available for the dry months. At present farmers
are obliged to resort to pot watering carrying the water from far off wells.
Irrigation is a major factor which would contribute to significant increases
in nut production. Increases averaging 50% have been reported in trials and
field plantings. Intensive intercropping is also possible if irrigation is
available.
14.       GOK has already carried out surveys of ground water resources in the
project areas based on which it is estimated that a minimum of 20% of the new
coconut planting areas and 25% of coconut rehabilitation areas would have
adequate ground water suitable for irrigating the coconut and the intercrops
to be raised in an intensive manner. The irrigation component provided under
the project includes shallow wells and filter points together with electrically
operated pumpsets. It is estimated that provision of shallow well irrigation
to coconut land would be financially viable only for a holding of 1 ha or
more. Filter point installation would, however, be viable even with 0.5 ha of
coconut land.
Cocoa
15.       The soil and climatic conditions in some of the project areas are
suited for cocoa cultivation. There is a known unsatisfied demand for cocoa,
and the satisfied demand is met mainly from imports (Annex 13). Cocoa can be
developed as a major commercial crop without significant additional labor
inputs by growing it as an intercrop under coconut which will provide the
necessary shade for the cocoa plant.
Dairy
16.       Another means of increasing the farmer's income from his limited
landholding is to grow fodder as an intercrop for feeding dairy cattle. Milk
consumption in Kerala is much below the 210 grams per adult per day recommended
by WHO. A program to raise cattle by the coconut farmer would also demonstrate
to the farming community in general the economics of milk production and the
need for greater milk consumption. For these reasons, among others, cocoa and
fodder are to be promoted as the major intercrops.
Pepper
17.       Pepper in Kerala has seldom been grown as a pure crop.  It is grown
mostly as a mixed crop in coffee and cardamon areas. Poor yields are the
result of senile and uneconomic vines, wilt disease, and inadequate extension
staff to persuade farmers to adopt package practices and scientific cultivation
methods recommended by KDOA. An intensive area approach would be followed and
project farmers encouraged to grow pepper as a monocrop (Annex 3).



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Cashew
18.       Cashew also is a smallholder crop in Kerala and increased produc-
tion to meet import deficit of rawnuts could be achieved by encouraging the
smallholder farmers. GOK is paying considerable attention to promoting cashew
cultivation, both new plantings and rehabilitation of existing plantings by
smallholders by provision of subsidy of Rs 100/ha for fertilizers. Project
development, however, is restricted to two plantations - one for rehabilitation
and the other for establishing new plantings.
19.       In the past cashew in India was treated as a wasteland crop.  Sys-
tematic management is even more important than physical inputs. GOK has
recognized that the inherent poor quality of the planting material has also
been responsible for the low yields in the older plantings. Research has
proved that improved farm techniques such as cultural, manurial and plant
protection treatments are efficacious in increasing the production from the
plantings in bearing. Private holdings available for new planting are limited
and scattered, and those available for new plantings could often be brought
under other crops. Therefore expansion of cashew area in any significant
manner has to come from forest lands and the GOK Forest Department has
reserved lands for this purpose.
20.       Thus the rehabilitation of the GOK's cashew plantation of 2,280
ha will also serve to demonstrate to smallholders quick improvement in yield
to be achieved by scientific management. The new planting of 1,470 ha virgin
land earmarked by the Forest Department for cashew would not only serve as
the first phase in an increase of cashew area but also to demonstrate the
advantages of treating the crop with the same care given to other tree crops,
starting from good planting material and extending to fertilizer application
and pest control. Provision has also been made for a pilot plant to process
cashew apple into wine, beverage and preserves. Vast quantities of cashew
apple are now not put to any economic use. Cashew Development is discussed
further in Annex 4.
Seed Gardens
21.       Poor quality of planting material used for almost all crops in the
State has been recognized by GOK as a major factor contributing to low pro-
ductivity and low resistance to diseases. GOK is making arrangements for
making adequate quantity and acceptable quality of planting material necessary
for the new planting and replanting of coconut, pepper, cashew, and cocoa
planned under this project. However, the future seed needs of the Kerala
State outside the project activities are so great that funds are provided in
this project for seed gardens to be established. These gardens would produce
high yielding and disease resistant varieties of planting material for coconut,
cocoa, cashew, pepper and other spices (details in Annex 5).



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Rubber Processing
22.       Rubber, like other tree crops in Kerala, is grown predominantly by
smallholders. Few smallholders possess the essential processing facilities to
produce quality rubber. The majority of them continue to follow crude and un-
hygienic methods to process their latex. About 20% of their production now is
sold as scrap to middlemen at very low prices. Rubber yields are low despite
the remarkable improvement between 365 kg/ha of 1961 and the present 765 kg/ha.
Due to the increase in total planted area of more than 50% over the last ten
years coupled with the intensified extension service, and special replanting
programs under the Rubber Replanting Subsidy Scheme, rubber production in the
State is expected to increase two-fold within the next ten years. Additional
processing capacity has, therefore, to be provided for this increase. The
Indian Rubber Board has thus planned to encourage the setting up of crumb
rubber processing factories to meet part of the future increased processing
capacity required. Crumb rubber processing could give the maximum benefit
from upgrading smallholders' scrap rubber.  This move is also welcomed by the
Indian tire manufacturers who are the major consumers of this raw material.
23.       In order to maximize the benefits to the smallholders the crumb
rubber produced in the new factories would use more (about 75%) of scrap grade
rubber and less field latex. This would enable a steady market for the small-
holders' scrap grades. Upgrading the scrap grades into technically specified
grades would enable higher prices to be realized by the smallholders. The
processing and marketing of the crumb rubber would be entrusted to the Co-
operative sector so as to enable the smallholder to realize a sense of par-
ticipation in the new development, and also to share in the profits in the
processing and marketing of his rubber produce (details in Annex 7).
Research, Training and Technical Assistance
24.       The Kerala Agricultural University (AUK) and Central Plantation Crops
Research Institute (CPCRI) have been doing research on many aspects of project
crops particularly on coconut, cocoa, pepper and cashew. But the research
input on these crops has been meager considering the importance of these crops
in the national economy. In order to tackle the various problems concerning
the production of these crops, research efforts have to be intensified so as
to provide the necessary research support for the successful implementation
not only of the development proposed under this project but more importantly
also of the massive future development planned by the State Government.
25.       CPCRI and AUK would also provide technical training to extension
service staff required for the project. The Special Agricultural Development
Unit would arrange for project orientation and on-the-job training of project
staff to be engaged on agricultural development. Overseas training and fel-
lowships would be provided where appropriate facilities are not available
locally. Technical assistance support too has been provided to the extent it
is considered essential for maximizing project benefits. Details are given in
Annex 6 for agricultural development, and in Annex 7 for rubber processing.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Extension Services
26.       Intensive technical support is considered crucial for the successful
implementation of development to be undertaken by smallholders. Special care
has therefore been taken to provide adequate extension services to help pro-
ject farmers. These facilities would supplement the services presently pro-
vided by KDOA and the Department of Animal Husbandry. The extension services
approach planned under this project would be similar to that followed by KDOA
in the Intensive Package Programs for coconut and paddy commenced in 1973/74
(Annex 1, paras 12 and 24). Veterinary Surgeons and Livestock Assistants who
are to help farmers also engaged in dairy would be posted in addition to the
Agricultural Officers. Provision has also been made in the project for
vehicles for staff, low cost buildings in the project areas for administration
offices, and spraying equipment for plant protection campaigns. Further
details including extension organization and management are in Annex 10.



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Phasing
Number of Package Units              -                -Project Years
Years          Commenced                   1      2         3        4         5        6         Total
__________ ________---- (ha) --------------------------
Pepper Deelopment
1           5                         625    1,250       625                                    2,500
2          10                           -     1.250    2,500    1,250         -         -       5,000
3           5                          -        -        625    1,250        625        -       2,500
20                         625    2,500    3,750    2,500        625         -     10,000
Coconut New Planting
1           2                         250       500       250     -           -         -       1,000
2           5                           -       625    1,250       625        -         -       2,500
3           3                          -        -         375      750       375        -       1,500
10                         250    1,125    1,875    1,375        375         -      5,000
Coconut Rehabilitation
Unirrigated
1          15                       1,125    2,250    1,125       -           -         -       4,500
2          40                          -      3,000    6,000    3,000         -         -      12,000
3          20                           -       -      1,500    3,000    1,500          -       6,000
_5l/                     1,125    5,250    8,625    6,000    1,500           -     22,500
Irrigated 2/
1          15                           -       375       750      375        -         -       1,500
2          40                          -        -      1,000    2,000    1,000          -       4,000
3          20                          -        -          -       500    1,000        500      2,000
75 1/                       -       375    1,750    2,875    2,000          500     7,500
Total P,ckage
Uniits        105                        2,000    9,250   16,000   12,750    4,500          500    45,000
1/  Same package units where 25% of the coconut is rehabilitated with irrigation, and 75% without irrigation.                  M
2/ Development starts in year 2.
October 14, 1976



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Investment- /Cost Per Farm
(Rupees)
Years                    1       2       3        4        5         6      7      Total
Coconut New Plantings
Unirrigatel/                     840     376      583     744       744                     3,287
Irrigated -                    2,053   1,039   1,453   1,775        -        -      -       6,320
Coconut Rehabilitation
Unirrigated      2/              548     464      431      90        90      -      -       1,623
Irrigated - Cocoa-2/           2,977   2,483   1,678      296       -        -      -       7,434
Irrigated - Dairy-             5,045   7,590      132     180       -        -      -      12,947
Pepper Rehabilitation            3,461   2,672   1,986      416       -        -      -       8,535
1/ Capital costs plus loss of income.
2/ Irrigation Facilities are excluded.   Irrigation costs are computed in Annex 8, Appendix.
October 21, 1976
I-J1j
H >4
t'3X



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Smallholders' Farm Development
Introduction
1.        Development of the coconut and pepper areas planned under this
project would be undertaken entirely by smallholders. Intercropping is
envisaged in the 5,000 ha to be newly brought under coconut and in the
30,000 ha 1/ existing coconut areas to be rehabilitated. Irrigated develop-
ment would be confined to about 1,000 ha of the new coconut areas (20%) and
7,500 ha of the rehabilitation areas (25%). Intercropping with cocoa and
fodder grass is planned only under mature coconut. No special irrigation
facilities or intercropping programs are recommended in the 10,000 ha pepper
areas to be rehabilitated. Average land holdings in the project areas are
estimated at 0.4 ha for coconut and 0.5 ha for pepper. It is estimated that
about 75,000 farming families would participate in the project engaging in
coconut, pepper, cocoa and dairy development. The more important assumptions
used in the farm models (see attached Tables) are summarized in the Appendix
to this Annex.
Coconut New Planting
2.        Coconut new planting would cover 10 package units totalling 5,000 ha
20% of which or 1,000 ha would be irrigated development. Suitable areas free
of root wilt disease have already been identified by GOK in CannanoVe, Kozhi-
kode and Malappuram Districts. A planting intensity of 175 trees/ha would
be followed to permit systematic intercropping. Seedlings from West-Coast-Tall
varieties and Laccadive ordinary and hybrid seedlings (T x D and D x T) would
be supplied from KDOA nurseries.
3.        Cultivation practices would generally be in accordance with the
package of practices recommended by KDOA. Annual application to trees from
three years of age onwards would normally be 0.34 N, 0.17 P205 and 0.68 K20.
For earlier years the dosage would be as follows:
1/   80% anticipated response from a total area of about 37,500 ha.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
3 months after planting              -  1/10th the full dose
mentioned above
1 year         - do -                -  1/3rd       "
2 year         - do-                 -  2/3rd       "
Organic manure at the rate of 25 - 30 kg/mature tree would also be applied.
Two annual sprays with fungicide against leaf disease and packing of leaf
axil in the tree crown with a mixture of sand and insecticide to ward off
Rhinoceros beetle, would be recommended. Intercropping would be undertaken
with tapioca, banana, pulses, vegetable and ginger. Cocoa and green fodder
are not recommended in the new coconut plantings and would be restricted to
mature areas to be rehabilitated.
Coconut Rehabilitation
4.        Bench-mark surveys carried out by GOK have shown that 80% of the
farmers in the 75 package units identified would participate in the program,
giving an effective rehabilitation area of 30,000 ha - an average of 400 ha
in each package unit. Irrigated development would be 7,500 - 25% of the
30,000 ha area effectively rehabilitated. An average of 175 trees/ha,
all of high vitality and yield potential would be achieved by a combination
of selective thinning, replanting, replacement of senile and unproductive
trees, and following improved cultural practices. It is estimated that on
an average the farmers would replant 20 trees/ha rehabilitated.
5.        As in coconut new plantings, quality seedlings of selected varie-
ties would be used for replacement of uneconomic trees in the areas to be
rehabilitated. The KDOA's schemes for production of quality coconut seedlings
would be intensified to ensure timely supply of the seedlings required for
the replanting necessary in the rehabilitation areas. Cultural practices
would be in accordance with the package of practices recommended by KDOA.
2 kg dolomite or in its place, 0.5 kg Magnesium sulphate. and 1 kg lime per
tree would be applied in addition to N, P, K doses recommended. Organic
fertilizers would be used whenever possible, particularly in the initial
period of the rehabilitation and in soils which are low in organic content.
Plant protection measures would be as recommended for coconut new plantings
(para 3).
6.        Cocoa performs best under well distributed rainfall with short
dry seasons. In the coconut growing tracts of Kerala, including the project
areas, the dry seasons would be too severe for cocoa unless irrigation could
be provided. Cocoa is a shade tolerant plant and could adapt well under
mature coconut trees provided soil fertility could be assured. Intercropping
of cocoa under mature coconut has proved to be successful in countries like
New Guinea and Malaysia. In Kerala too cocoa has already been planted under



ANNEX 3
Page 3
coconut and, as a mixed crop, with arecanut with promising results. Interplant-
ing of cocoa would be limited to mature coconut areas with irrigation facili-
ties. Only holdings in which the stand of trees would not exceed 175/ha
would be chosen for interplanting with cocoa. Identification of holding for
this purpose would be done by the project extension staff. Continuous
and compact areas would be developed for this inter-crop to facilitate process-
ing which would be developed through cooperative efforts of the farmers.
7.        Planting material used would be of Forestero material originating
from seeds imported from Sabah in East Malaysia. Cocoa planting would be in
single rows, between the coconut rows, at an intensity of about 300 plants/ha.
The double row method of planting, between alternate rows of coconuts,
would also be permitted. In gardens where line planting of coconut has not
been followed, cocoa interplanting would be in suitable interspaces according
to recommendations to be made by the extension services. Agricultural manage-
ment and fertilizer practices would similarly conform to extension service
recommendations. At planting time organic manure would be applied at the rate
of 10 tons/ha. From the second year onwards each plant would, in addition to
being mulched with compost, receive 1 kg/year of 10:4:14 NPK mixture. It is
claimed by GOK and CPCRI that black pod has been absent or relatively infre-
quent in Kerala. Relative humidity in Kerala with its long dry seasons is
known to be much lower than in other cocoa producing countries. Even with
irrigation the climatic conditions in the project areas are less conducive
to outbreaks of black pod which could be kept within tolerable limits.
However, adequate preventive control measures would be taken.
8.        Dairy development in coconut holdings would also form an integral
part of the rehabilitation work. In Kerala, in more than 20% of the farm
holdings dairy cattle are raised. Mixed farming under the project would be
encouraged only where irrigation facilities could be provided. Improved
varieties of fodder grasses would be interplanted, preferably mixed with
suitable fodder legumes, in coconut gardens. Facilities for upgrading cows
now owned by the farmers would also be provided. Hybrid Napier or Guinea
grass mixed with Stylosanthis gracilis, Peuraria phaseoloides or cowpea would
be planted. The number of cows raised on each farm would be at the rate of
three cows for every one ha of the interplanted (fodder) area. The choice of
varieties of fodder grasses and legumes, the breed of the cow and the number
of cows for each holding would be in accordance with extension staff recom-
mendations. Supply of planting material (for fodder crops) and improved
breeds of cattle, insemination dispensary, and other services would be ensured
to the project by coordinating the program with the activities of the Indo-
Swiss Project at Mattupatty and the Cattle Development Programs implemented by
the Departments of Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development. Grass-slips would
be planted at a spacing of 40-50 cm and in between rows of grass, legume seeds



ANNEX 3
Page 4
would be sown using a seed rate of 10-12 kg/ha. Organic manure at 20 tons/ha
and inorganic fertilizers at the rate of 50 kg P205 and 50 kg K20 would be
applied as basal dressing at the time of planting. After each cutting, cattle
dung, and 18-1/2 kg N as Urea or Ammonium Sulphate would be applied to the
grass.  In addition, 50 kg of P205 and 100 kg of K02 would also be applied as
top dressing in two split doses, one before and one soon after the monsoon.
9.        Trials carried out by CPCRI, KDOA and the Indo-Swiss Project over
five years have demonstrated that one ha of well managed fodder under coconut
under irrigated conditions in Kerala can provide up to 60 tons of green matter
which could maintain five cows. In the project, however, only 80% 1/ of the
coconut area is assumed to be interplanted in fodder grass and a conservative
yield of 30 tons of fodder taken. As the cows would also receive concentrate
feed, 10 tons of green fodder is considered adequate to maintain one milking
cow. Thus, three cows are taken to be the average number raised in a 1 ha
holding. Cattle would be made available by the Indo-Swiss Project supplement-
ed by upgraded local cattle available in Kerala and neighboring States of
Tamil Nadu and Karnataka.
10.       The irrigation component has been provided only for the coconut
area development and would cover a total area of 8,500 ha - 1,000 ha in the
new plantings and 7,500 ha in the rehabilitation areas. Investments would
cover new dug wells, deepening and repair of existing wells, filter points
in sandy soils, supply and installation of pumpsets which would be electrically
powered. The smaller holdings would have 1.5 hp pumps installed. 3.5 hp
pumps would be used only in holdings of more than 1 ha.
Pepper Rehabilitation
11.       Pepper rehabilitation component would cover 10,000 ha of pepper
gardens in the Districts of Cannanore, Kottayam and Idukki. In the latter
two Districts the rehabilitation work would mostly be confined to high range
areas where diseases of pepper are found to be serious. The pepper rehabili-
tation would also be on the "Intensive Package Unit" approach in compact
units of 500 ha each. The activities would broadly include:
-    replanting of 50% of the vines with superior types;
-    application of fertilizers to both the existing and
the new planted vines;
-    adoption of plant protection measures to both the
existing and the new planted vines; and
-    improvement of cultivation practices in general.
1/   For cocoa and fodder interplanting it is assumed that the farmer will want
to reserve 20% of his land for minor intercrop such as tapioca and
vegetable.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
12.       For replanting, rooted cuttings of the hybrid pepper Panniyur-I and
accredited conventional varieties like Karimunda, Kalluvally and Kottanadan
would be used. The latter types would be preferred for less open situations.
Planting material required would be made available through the schemes for
multiplication and distribution of rooted pepper cuttings implemented by KDOA.
Organic manure would be applied at the rate of 9 kg per pit with 0.5 kg of lime.
Inorganic fertilizers to supply 100 gm N, 40 gm P 20, and 140 gm K 0 per vine
would also be applied. In the 50% vines retained in the garden this dosage
would be an annual maintenance application, while the new planted vines would
receive an increasing schedule according to extension service recommendations.
Both the retained and the replanted vines would receive plant protection
treatments. Plant protection schedule for a particular area would be decided
by the extension officers by reference to the pest or disease situation in
that area and in conformity with the package of practices recommended by
KDOA.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Smallholder Farm Development
In preparing the accompanying Farm Model Tables the following
major assumptions have been made:
i.   Land holdings used for different kinds of project
development are:
0.5 ha for unirrigated coconut new planting and
rehabilitation; and
1.0 ha for irrigated coconut new planting and
rehabilitation, and for pepper rehabilitation. 1/
ii.   20% of the 5,000 ha coconut new plantings and 25% of the
30,000 ha rehabilitation areas would be provided with
irrigation facilities.
iii.   Intercropping with cocoa, and fodder for dairy would be
confined to irrigated holdings in the rehabilitation areas.
Only 80% of each irrigated holding would be devoted to
cocoa or fodder, leaving the remaining 20% available for
other intercrops.
iv.   Other intercrops raised in all coconut areas would in the
main be tapioca, pulses, ginger and vegetables.
v.   No intercropping would be carried out in pepper rehabili-
tation areas;
vi.   Ideal tree stand for coconut new planting and rehabili-
tated area is 175/ha;
vii.   Casualty rate for coconut seedlings planted would be 10%
to be replaced in the year after planting;
1/   1.0 ha would be the minimum holding necessary for a new well with 3.0 hp
pumpset to be financially viable. The minimum size for filter point and
1.5 hp pump would be 0.5 hp.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 2
viii.   Only hired labor is deemed part of project costs.  In
coconut new planting and pepper replanting operations
two-thirds of the first year's labor input is hired.
In all other cases, hired labor is taken at one-third
of total required.
ix.   Daily wage is taken at Rs 8.00 for men and Rs 6.50 for
women, being the rates specified in the State minimum
wage legislation.
x.   Coconut harvesting labor is all hired and computed at
Rs 16.00 plus 8 nuts for every 100 trees harvested.
xi.   Capital and operating costs relating to irrigation
facilities with 3.0 hp pumpset are as given in Appendix
2 of this Annex.
xii.   Three cows are raised in 1 ha of irrigated holding; the
calving rate is 0.75; and the average daily milk pro-
duction is 3.7 liters per cow.
xiii.   Crop yields and commodity prices are given in Annex 13,
Tables 3 and 1.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Page 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRIGULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Costs for Smallholder Farm Development
1.        Ground water surveys carried out by GOK, 20% of the coconut net
planting areas and 25% of the rehabilitation areas would be provided with
irrigation. Furthermore, sandy soils prevailing in about half the irri-
gable areas would permit low cost irrigation from filter points. In the
other half of the area new wells would be dug.
2.        Average land holding to receive a filter point was taken at 0.6 ha
(the minimum viable size being about 0.5 ha) for which a 1.5 hp pump would
be provided. Averaging land holding where a new well would be dug is likely
to be 1.5 ha (the minimum viable size being about 1.0 ha for which a 3.0 hp
pump would be provided. Detailed investment costs for both irrigation sets
are in the Table on page 2. The same Table gives the operating costs for
the bigger set used in the farm models (Tables 2, 4 and 5).
3.        Total irrigation costs for Smallholder Farm Development sub-project
are made up as follows:
Investment                                Total
Per Holdings     Area      Number of  Investment
(Rs)         Covered   Holdings       Rs M
Irrigated Holdings
(i)  0.6                    3,800          4,250       7,085        26.9
(ii)  1.5 ha                11,550          4,250       2,835        32.8
Total                        8,500       9,920       59.7
Note: Based on distribution of holdings as above, the irrigation cost per
ha would average at Rs 7,000.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Page 2
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Irrigation Costs
Capital Costs
(1) Small Irrigation Set (for 0.5 ha to 1.0 ha irrigated holding).
Rupees
Pump (1.5 hp)-/                                    1,900
Installation Charges
Connection                         200
Foundation                         200
Pump House                         300            700
Filter Point                                       1,200
Total Small Set          3,800
(2) Big Irrigation Set (for minimum 1.0 ha holding).
Pump (3.0 hp)-/                                    2,850
Installation Charges                                 700
Construction of New Well                           8,000
Total Big Set           11,550
Annual Operating Costs per ha
(1)  Labor -/ - 40 man-days                                         260
(2)  Electricity 3/                                                  65
(3)  Repair and Maintenance                                         135
Total Operating Costs
Including Family Labor                             460
Excluding Family Labor                             200
l/ Effective life of pumps has been taken at 7 years.
2/ Irrigation twice weekly; wages computed for woman labor (Rs 6.50/day).
3/ For operating 3.0 hp pump; 8 hours per irrigation; Rs 10/K.W.H.



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coconut New Plantings (Without Irrigation) - 0 o-H. A_deL
(Rupees)
Without       1        2        3       4        5        6          7          8         9          10         11          12       13 and
YEARS                                     Project       _                                  _                                                                                    After
COCONUTS
Capital Costs
Inputs:
Planting Material                                  262       26
Fertilizer                                          53      231      428      565      565
Chemicals                                                    23       50       70       70
Others                                             114                         21       21
Sub_total                                     429     280      478      656      656
Wagesl'                                              411       96      105       88       88
Total Capital Costs                           840      376     583      744      744
Operating Costs
Production (nuts)                                                                                 870      1,740      2,610      3,480    3,915       4,350      4,785        5,220
Inputs:
Fertilizer                                                                                      565        565        565        565       565        565         565         565
Chemicals                                                                                        70         70         70         70        70         70          70          70
Others                                                                                           21         21         21         21        21         21          21          21
Sub-total                                                                                 656        656        656        656       656        656         656         656
Wageas
Maintenance                                                                                      88         88         88         88        88         88          88          88
Harvesting                                                                                       99         99         99         99        99         99          99          99
Sub-total                                                                                 187        187        187        187        187        187        187         187
Total Operating Costs                                                                     843        843        843        843       843         843        843         843
Operating Income                                                                                  609      1,218      1.827      2.436    2,740       3.045      3,350        3.654
Net Income                                                                                       (234)       375        984      1,593    1,897       2,203      2,507        2,811
INTERCROPS
2et  Income                             160        1603/   655       832      942   1,032   1,032       1,032       1,032      1,032    1,032       1,032      1.032        1,032
Total Net Income                              160        160     655      832      942   1,032       798      1,407      2,016      2,625    2,929       3,234       3,534       3,843
Incremental Net Income                                    -      495      672      782      872      638      1,247      1,856      2,465    2,769       3,074      3,374        3,683
1/  Hired labor is assumed to be = 2/3 of total labor in year 1.
1/3 thereafter.
2/  0.5 ha intercrops under coconuts  Table 10.             >
3/  The actual revenue in preproject year is Rs 160.  It is assumed to be the same in the Project year 1.
8/3/76



INDIA
XyEALA AlGRICIL'1)RAl. 2V11 IOY'1M  PUO3SCCT
Coconut Nev PlantIngs (W th IrriMation) - I Ha Model
Without                                                                                                                                                      14 and
__ASS                                Project          1          2        3          4                _ 6           7         8          9          10         11         12            13        After
COCONIUTs
Capital Costs
Irrigation Faciltti"s:
Puempeet                                     3,530                                                                     2,850-
New Well                                     8,000
Sub-total              I               1550
Inputs:
Planting Material                              524         52       -         -
Fertiliser                                     106       454       856      1,130
Chemicals                                                  54      100        140
Pump Operating Costs                           200       200       200        200
Others                                         228                             42
Sub-total                              1,058        160    1356       1,512
Wages                                            995       279       297        263
Total Capital Costs                   13.603      1,039    1,453       1,775                                      2.B50
Operating Costs
Production (nuts)                                                                        1,750     3.500      5,250      7,000      8,750    10,500       11,375       12,250    13,125        14,000
loputs:
Fertllteera                                                                            1,130      1,130     1,130      1,130      1,130      1,130       1,130       1,130       1,130        1.130
Chemicals                                                                                140        140        140       140        140        140         140         140         140          140
l'Uep Operating Costs                                                                    200        200       200        200        200        200         200         200         200          200
Ot hers                                                                                   42         42         42        42         42         42          42          42           42          42
Sub-total                                                                        1,512      1,512      1,512      1,512      1,512      1,512       1,512       1,512       1.512        1.512
Wages:
Maintenance                                                                              263        263       263        263        263        263         263         263         263          263
Harvestitg                                                                               198        198       198        198        198        298         198         198         198          198
Sub-total                                                                          461        46i        461        461        461        461         461         461         461          461
Total Operating Costs                                                            1,973      1.973      1.973      1,973      1,973      1,973       1,973       1,973       1,973        1.973
Operating Income                                                                         1.225     2.450      3,675      4,900      6.125       7.350      7.962     8R575          9 1R7       9 8O0
Net Income                                                                                (748)       477     1,702      2,927      4,152       5,377      5.989      6.602         7.214       7,827
INTERCROPS
Net Income  2/                       320         640      1,788    2,053      2,448      2,638     2.638      2,638      2,638      2,638      2,638       2,638       2.638       2,638        2,638
Total Net Income                         320        640      1,788    2,053      2,448      1,890      3.115     4,340       5,565     6,798       8,015       8,627       9,240       9,852      10.465
Incremental Net Income                  -           320      1,468    1.733      2,128    -1570        2.795      4.020      5.245      6,478      7,695      8,307       8,920        9,532      10,145
11  Pired leoor ts assumed to be -  2/3 of total labor in year 1.
1/3 thereafter.
2/  Refe.r to Table 11.
3/  The actuel revenue before project is Re 320.  It is assused to double in year I due to tho introduction of irrigation.
Iti Replacement of pumpaet.
8/3b76



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coconut Rehabilitation (Without Irrigation) - 0.5 Ha Model
(Rupees)
Without                                                                                                                                                13 and
YEARS                           Project             1           2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9         10         11         12        After
COCONUTS
Capital Costs
Inputs:
Planting Material                               30           3        -         -          -
Fertilizer                                       6          26       49         67         67
Chemicals                                                    5         5          8          8
Others                                          15          -         -           5          5
Sub-total                                 51          34        54         80         80
Wages                                             24          11        12         10         10
Total                                     75          45        66         90         90
Rehabilitation/Opersting
Cost
Production (nuts)             1,617            1,694       1,771    1,848      2,387      2,772       2,872      2,972      3,072       3,403      3,530      3,580      3,630      3,680
Inputs:
Fertilizers                    35             488         488       488        488        488         555        555        555         555        555        555        555        555
Chemicals                      25               56          56        56         56         56         64         64          64         64         64         64         64         64
Others                         10               33          33        33        33         33          38         38          38         38         38         38         38         38
Sub-total                 70             577         577       577        577        577         657        657        657        657        657         657        657        657
Wages
Maintenance                    56               76          76        76         76         76         86         86          86         86         86         86         86         86
Harvesting                     87              87          87        87         8?         87          98         98         98          98         98         98         98         98
Sub-total                143             163         163       163        163        163         164        184        184        184         184        184        184        184
Total Operating Costs           213              740         740       740       740         740        841        841         841        841        841        841        841        841
Operating Incoe               1,132           1.186       1.240    1.294       1.671      1,940       2.010      2,080      2.150       2.382      2.471      2.506      2.541      2.576
Net Income                      919             446          500      554        93.1     1,200       1,169      1,239      1,309       1,541      1,630      1,665      1,700      1,735
Incrmental Net Income           -               (473)       (419)    (365)        12        281         250        320         390        622        711        746        781        816
INTERCROPS
Met IncomeI/                    560              560         655      832        942      1,032       1,032      1,032      1,032       1,032      1,032      1,032      1,032      1,032
Incremental Net Income          -               -             95      272        382        472         472        472        472         472        472        472        472        472
Total Incremental Net Income       -               (473)       (324)      (93)       394        753         722        792        862      1.094      1.183      1.218      1.253       1.288
1/ See Table 10.
8/6/76



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coconut Rehabilitation (With Irrigation) - Cocoa Interplanted - I Ha Model
(Rupees)
Without                                                                                                                                                        13 and
YEARS                            Project         1           2           3           4            5           6           7           8            9          10          11           12       After
Capital Costs
Irrigation Facilit2,s!/                    11,550          -           -           -                                             2,850
Coconut Replanting_                            150          90         132         180
Cocoa Interplanting3/                          684         710         784         -
Total                              12,384         800         916         180                                            2.8505"
Rehabilitation/Operating Costs
Production - Coconut (nuts)   3,255         3,565        4,030       5,270       6,975       7,950       8,925       9,900       10,100      10,300      10,400       10,500      10,600    10,700
- Cocoa Dry (kg)      -            -           -           -            20          80         120         200          280         400          520         520         520        520
2/                                        4/          4/          4/
Coconutf/                         426        1,904-/    1,904-       1,904-      1,904       2.098       2,098        2,098       2,098       2,098       2,098        2,098       2,098      2,098
Cocoa                              -           -           -           -           826         866         926          952         979       1,018        1.058       1.058       1,058      1,058
Total                     426       1,904       1,904       1,904       2,730       2,964        3,024       3,050       3,077       3,116        3,156       3,156       3,156       3,156
Operating Income
Coconut                         2,264       2,495        2,821       3,689       4,882       5,565       6,247        6,930       7,070       7,210        7,280       7,350       7,420       7,490
Cocoa                              -           -           -           -           200         800       1,200        2,000       2,800       4.000        5,200       5,200       5.200      5.200
Total                  2,264        2,495       2,821       3,689       5,082       6,365        7,447       8,930       9,870      11,210       12,480      12,550      12,620    12,690
Net Income
Coconut                         1,838          591         917       1,785       2,978       3,467       4,149       4,832        4,972       5,112        5,182       5,282       5,322       5,392
Cocoa        6/                    -           -           -           -          (626)         (66)        274       1,048       1,821       2,982        4,142       4,142       4,142      4,142
Garden Crops-                   1.120          224         358         411         490          528         528         528         528          528         528         528          528        528
Total                  2,958          815       1,275       2,196       2,842       3,929       4,951        6,408       7,321       8,622        9,852       9,952        9,992    10,062
Incremental Net Income
Coconut                                     (1,247)       (921)        (53)      1,140       1,629        2,311       2,994       3,134        3,274       3,344       3,444        3,484      3,554
Cocoa                                          --                      -          (626)         (66)        274       1,048       1,821       2,982        4,142       4,142       4,142       4,142
Garden Crops                                  (896)       (762)       (709)       (630)        (592)       (592)       (592)       (592)        (592)       (592)        (592)       (592)       592)
Total                              (2,143)     (1,683)       (762)       (116)         971       1.993       3,450       4,363        5,664       6,894       6.994        7.034      7,104
1/  3 HP pumpset plus construction of a well.
2/  See Table 7.
3/  Cocoa interplanted in coconut (0.8 ha) (Table, Annex 3).
4/ Incdiifespecial expenditures on coconut rehabilitation.
5/ Replacement of pumpset.
6/ See Table 10,
8/6/76



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coconut Rehabilitation (With Irrigation) - Fodder In.terplented -   H N  Model
(Rupees)
Without                                                                                                                                                    13 and
YEARS                            Prolect        1           2           3          4           5           6           7           8           9          10          11           12       After
Capital Costs
Irrigation Facilities.l/                  11,550         -           -           _                                             2,850-/       -           -           -
Coconu"  Replanting 3t                        150          90         132        180
Dairy _/                                    2,752      7.500         -           -                                               _         17006/    1.700         1.700
Total                             14,452       7,590         132         180                                          2.850        1.700       1,700       1.700
Operating Costs
Production - Coconut (nuts)   3,255        3,565       4,030       5,210       6.975       7,950      8,925        9,900      10,100      10,300       10,400      10,500      10,600    10,700
- Milk (liters)        -          -         4,050      4,050       4,050       4,050      4,050        4,050       4,050       4,050        4.050       4,050       4.050     4,050
Coconut31                         426       1,904      1,904       1,904       1,904       2,098                                                                                          2,098
Dalry 41                           -          -        4,307       4.307       4,307       4,307                                                                                          4,307
Total                    426       1,904       6,211       6,211       6,211       6,405                                                                                          6,405
Operating, Income                                                               ,
Coconu4 3/                      2,264       2,495      2,821       3,689       4,882       5,565       6,247       6,930       7,070       7,210       7,280       7,350       7,420      7,490
Dairy _                            -          -        7.830       7.830       7.830       7.830       7.830       7.830       7,830       7.830       7.830       7.830       7,830      7.830
Total                  2,264       2,495      10,651      11,519      12,712      13,395      14,077      14,760      14,900      15,040      15,110      15,180      15,250    15,320
Net Income
Coconut                         1,838         591        917       1,785       2,978       3,467       4,149       4,832       4,972       5,112       5,182       5,282       5,322      5,392
Dairy                              -         -         3,523       3,523       3,523       3,523       3,523       3,523       3,523       3,523       3,523       3,523       3,523      3,523
Garden CropsY/                  1.120         224        358         411         490         528         528         528         528         528          528         528         528        528
Total                  2,958         815       4,798       5,719       6,991       7,518      8,200       8,883       9,023        9,163       9,233       9,333       9,373      9,443
Incresental Net Income
Coconut                                    (1,247)      (921)        (53)      1,140       1,629       2,311       2,994       3,134       3,214       3,344       3,444       3,484      3,554
Dairy                                         .        3,523       3,523       3,523       3,523       3,523       3,523       3,523       3,523       3,523       3,523       3.523      3,523
Garden Crops                                 (896)  _ 762)          (709)       (630)       (592)       (592)       (592)       (592)       (592)       (592)       (592)        (592)      (592)
Total                             (2.143)      1.840       2.761      4.033       4,560       5.242       5.925       6,065       6.205        6.275       6,375       6.415      6.485
1/ 3 HP pumpset plus new well.
2/  Replacement of pumpast.
3/ See Table 7, Annex 3.
4/  Dairy farming on 0.8 he (Table 9  Annex 3).
5/ 0.2 ha as Int*rcrops (Table 11, Annex 3).
6/ Replacesent of one cow tn years 9-10-11.
1/13/76



INDTA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pepper Rehabilitation (1 Ha Model)
(Rupees)
Without                                                                                        9 and
YEARS                            Project           1         2         3        4         5         6         7         8       After
Capital Costs (Replanting)
Inputs:
Planting Material                            248        34
Standards                                    220        40
Fertilizers                                  200       345
Plant Protection                              50        50
Lime                                           75       38
Sub-total                               793       507
Wages                                            604       231
Total                                 1,397       738
Rehabilitation/Operating
Costs
Production (kg)                  275             137       150      230       387       737       737       737       737       875
Inputs:
Manure and Fertilizers        350             826      826    1,316    1,316    1,652    1,652    1,652    1,652    1,652
Plant Protection               50            200       200       300       300       400       400       400       400       400
Lime                           25              38        38       76        76        76        76        76        76        76
Sub-total                425          1,064    1,064    1,692    1,692    2,128    2,128    2,128    2,128    2,128
Wages                             275            320       320       544      544       640       640       640       640       640
Total                    700          1,384    1,384    2,236    2,236    2,768    2,768    2,768    2,768    2,768
Operating Revenue                 2,750          1,370    1,500    2,300    3,870    7,370    7,370    7,370    7,370    8,750
Net Operating Revenue            2,050             (14)      116        64    1,634    4,602    4,602    4,602    4,602    5,982
Incremental Net Operating                                                                                                                        X X
Revenue                                       (2.064)  (1,934)  (1,986)    (416)   2,552    2.552    2.552    2,552    3,932
8/10/76



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coconut Rehabilitation (With Irrigation)
Capital Cost and Operating Expenses for 1 Ha of Coconut
(Rupees)
Years                 Without            1            2            3           4              5
Project                                                             and after
CAPITAL COSTS
1/
Replanting -
Inputs
Planting Material                                             60            6
Fertilizer                                                    12           52           98          134
Chemicals                                                                  10           10           16
Others                                                        30                                     10
Sub-total                                102           68          108          160
Wages                                                           48           22           24           20
TOTAL                                    150           90          132          180
REHABILITATION/OPERATING COSTS
Inputs
Fertilizer                                                   976         976           976          976          1,110
Chemicals                                                    112          112          112          112            128
Pump Operating                                               200          200          200          200            200
Others                                                        66           66           66           66             76
Sub-total                              1,354        1,354        1,354        1,354          1,514
Wages
Maintenance and Irrigation                                   376          376          376          376            386
Harvesting                                                   174          174          174          174            198
Sub-total                                550          550          550          550             584
TOTAL                    426           1,904        1,904        1,904        1,904          2,098
IH 5
1/  Replanting of an average of 20 uneconomic palms per ha.                                                                      FD PC
August 26, 1976



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coconut Rehabilitation (With Irrigation)
Capital and Operating Costs for 0.8 Ha of Cocoa Interplanted in Coconut
(Rupees)
Years                    1      2       3       4      5       6       7       8       9             10
and after
CAPITAL COSTS
Inputs
Plant Material                               80      8
Fertilizers                                 320   382    382
Compost                                     110   192    192
Plant Protection                                           80
Sub-total                510   582    654
Wages                                         174   128    132
TOTAL                    684   710    786
OPERATING COSTS
Inputs
Fertilizers                                                        382   382    382    382    382    382               382
Compost                                                            192   192    192    192    192    192               192
Plant Protection                                                   120   160    200    200    200    200               200
Sub-total                                        694   734    774    774    774    774               774
Wages                                                                 132   132    152    178    205    244               284
TOTAL                                            826   866    926    952    979  1,018            1,058
August 26, 1976
ImI T
0( U.



ANNEX 3
Table 9
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coconut Rehabilitation with Irrigation
Cppital and Operating Costs for 0.8 Ha of Dairy Farming under Coconut
(Rupees)
Years                         1           2            3
and after
Capital Costs
Purchase of 3 cows                                           7,500
Cattle shed                                      1,000
Fodder Establishment
Planting Material                               240
Fertilizers                                   1,293
Lime                                             39
Sub-total inputs                   1,572
Wages                                              180
TOTAL                              2,752       7,500
Operating Costs
Inputs
Fertilizers                                               1,293         1,293
Lime                                                         39            39
Concentrates                                              2,595         2,595
Sub-total                                      3,927         3,927
Wages                                                          380           380
TOTAL                                          4,307         4,307
1/ Replacement of one cow in year 9, 10, 11. The old cow is sold at Rs 800.
August 26, 1976



Ann.  .
Table 10
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Intercrops Under Coconut (Without Irrigation)
1/
1 Ha - Model-
Without            2/                               5 and
Project          2 -        3            4          After
Operating Costs
Production (kg)
Tapioca                  3,500         4,000       4,500       4,800        5,000
Ginger, Turmeric etc.      -             500         600          650         700
Pulses                      50            60          65           70          70
Vegetables                 300           450         500          550         600
Inputs                    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   Rs -     -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   -    -
Tapioca                     66           334         334          334         334
Ginger, Turmeric etc.      -             404         404          404         404
Pulses                      30            66          66           66          66
Vegetables                  50           140         140          140         140
Sub-total               146           944         944         944          944
Wages
Tapioca                     70            90          90           90          90
Ginger, Turmeric etc.      -              80          80           80          80
Pulses                      24            12          12           12          12
Vegetables                  60            40          40           40          40
Sub-total               144           222         222         222          222
Total Operating Costs        300         1,166       1,166        1,166       1,166
Operating Revenue
Tapioca                  1,050         1,200       1,350        1,440       1,500
Ginger, Turmeric etc.                    750         900          975       1,050
Pulses                     100           120         130          140         140
Vegetables                 270           405         450          495         540
Sub-total             1,420         2,475      2,830        3,050        3,230
Net Income                 1,120         1,309       1,664        1,884       2,064
1/ Cropping pattern:  without project = tapioca    0.4 ha
pulses     0.4 ha
vegetables 0.2 ha
with project =    tapioca    0.4 ha
ginger     0.2 ha
pulses     0.2 ha
vegetables 0.2 ha
2/ Year 2 = year following investment.
8/3/76



ANNEX 3
Table 11
INDIA
Kerala Agricultural Development Project
Intercrops Under Coconut (With Irrigation)
1 Ha Modell/
Without                                5
Project   2;/       3        4     and after
Operatinz Costs
Production (kg)
Tapioca             3500    5000    5600    6000        6200
Ginger,Turmeric etc. -        700     750      800        850
Pulses                50       60      70       75         80
Vegetables           300      500     600      700        750
Inputs                                         -  --
Tapioca               66      334     334      334        334
Ginger,Turmeric etc. -        404     4044               14014
Pulses                30       66      66       66        66
Vegetables          _  O     140      140      140       140
Subtotal           146     944      944      944       9h4
Wages
Tapioca               70     140      140      1h0       140
Ginger,Turmeric etc.          124     121      124        124
Pulses                24      12       12       12        12
Vegetables          _b       112      112      112       112
Subtotal          154      388      388      388       388
TOTAL Operating
Costs    30       1       11j2   U12          1312
Operating Revenue
Tapioca.            1050    1500    1680    1800        1860
Ginger,Turmeric etc. -       1050    1125    1200        1275
Pulses               100     120      1140     150       160
Vegetables           270    1450      540      630       675
Subtotal         1420    3120    3485    3780         3970
NET INCOME          1120    1788    25        2448      2638
!/Cropping pattern
without project = taioca    0.14 ha
pulses     0.4 ha
vegetables 0.2 ha
with project    = tapioca    0.4 ha
ginger etc.0.2 ha
pulses     0.2 ha
vegetables 0.2 ha
Year 2 = year following investment
August 3, 1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cashew Development
Introduction
1.        The cashew tree requires well drained soil and warm humid climate.
However, it is a hardy tree that grows even on wastelands of low fertility.
It can be grown in almost all soil types from sandy sea coast to laterite hill
slopes up to an elevation of 700 m above sea level. Cashew grows in areas
where rainfall is more than 600 mm. Roots of cashew trees penetrate through
thick layers of laterite gravel, as long as the soil between the gravel is
loose, but compacted soils and hardpans limit root development and thus
availability of soil moisture. The tree has been used a lot for erosion
control. Because it is hardy and highly drought resistant, capable of thriv-
ing in wastelands where no other crop can grow, it is generally considered
that the tree needs very little treatment and should be grown on the poorest
of soils. The potential production capacity of cashew on good soils is
practically unknown, though trials carried out in other countries have shown
that cashew responds very well to fertilizer treatment. The main product is
the kernel, a popular dessert nut. The nuts are attached to the so-called
cashew "apples" the swollen peduncle.
2.        Cashew in Kerala, extending to more than 105,000 ha has hitherto
been essentially a smallholder crop and individual growers have paid little
attention to this valuable crol. While the inherent poor quality of the
planting materials used during the earlier years has been mostly respon-
sible for the low yields in the older plantations, experience of scientific
cashew cultivation indicates that improved farm techniques, such as cultural,
manurial and plant protection practices, are very effective in increasing the
nut production from the bearing plantations. Production could be increased
merely by undertaking a campaign of prophylactic spraying against pests and
diseases. It is estimated that at least 40% of the crop lost annually due to
incidence of pests and diseases could be saved by such plant protection.
Project Proposals
3.        In contrast to the coconut and pepper development under the project,
which would be in the smallholder sector, the cashew component would be
developed on a plantation scale by the Kerala State Plantations Corporation
(KSPC). Development would be of three parts:



ANNEX 4
Page 2
rehabilitation of an existing plantation in Cannanore;
a new plantation in virgin jungle land also in Cannanore;
-    pilot plant for cashew apple processing.
The rehabilitation program would demonstrate the financial viability of
cultivating this crop on a scientific basis. The new plantation would,
in addition to serving as an increase in the cashew area so necessary to
expand production of raw nuts, demonstrate the benefits of treating the cashew
crop with inputs and care similar to those given to other commercial crops.
The pilot plant for apple processing would serve to establish economic uses
for cashew apple, production of which is estimated at more than one million
tons and is now largely wasted.
Cashew Rehabilitation
4.        KSPC would take over the cashew plantation of 2,280 ha in the Cannanore
District now owned and operated by KDOA. Mainly due to government budgetary
constraints this plantation was neglected and starved of essential maintenance
expenditure. KSPC is not constrained by normal government budgetary procedures.
Since it is an autonomous corporation it is in a position to work on a self
financing basis. KSPC would rehabilitate it applying scientific management
practices including:
-    replanting of 250 ha with HYV to replace uneconomic
trees;
-    adequate fertilizer application; and
-    regular sprayings against pests and diseases.
New Plantings
5.        New plantings of cashew would be on about 1,500 ha of land to be
made available by the Forest Department. Cultivation of these new plantings
would be based on the most up-to-date production techniques.
6.        For both replantings and new plantings, the planting material used
would be selected only from trees possessing the desirable characteristics -
high yields, tolerance to disease, short flowering period, compact pinnacles,
high percentage of perfect flowers, good fruit-set, and large and uniform size
nuts. Plantings would be at an intensity of 200 plants per ha. A system of
adaptive thinning would be followed in later years to ensure adequate spacing
between trees, depending on the canopy growth of each tree. Fertilizer
application would be in accordance with the following recommendations made
by KDOA, subject to modifications warranted by soil analysis.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
N gm     P2 5gm       K2O gm
1st year/tree          80         40         40
2nd year/tree         160         80         80
3rd year/tree         250        125        125
Plant protection measures, principally against Helopeltis antonii (Tea
mosquitoe) would be undertaken. A minimum of three rounds of spraying
at the pre-flowering flush and inflorescence stages would be done.
Pilot Plant for Cashew Apple Processing
7.        Cashew apple is a by-product of the cashew industry.  From this
juicy apple it is possible to make many edible products, such as jam, juice,
wine, spirits and fruitcake. It is reported that in the Cannanore District
itself some 250,000 tons of fruit could be made available if some viable
industries could be set up to use this commodity as raw material. The sea-
sonal nature of fruit availability and its perishable nature require care-
ful studies before setting up units of commercial size.
8.        The proposal is to set up a pilot plant for making cashew
apple wine using a process already evolved by the Central Food Technological
Research Institute in Mysore. The quality of the wine produced under this
process is reported to be superior to Brazilian wine prepared out of cashew
apples. The plant capacity would be for processing 4 tons of fruit per day.
An integrated process for the preparation of jam, juice concentrate, candy
and chutney has also been developed by the Mysore Institute and arrangements
would be made to adopt this process in the pilot plant. The plant would
be located in the Cannanore District in one of the main cashew cultivation
centers, such as Hosdurg, Kasaragod or Taliparamba. Since cashew is a seasonal
crop, the plant could work on cashew apple at the most for three months of the
year. For the remaining months suitable alternatives (fruit and vegetables)
would be found to establish means of better utilization of processing plant
capacity. The apple residue left after extraction of the juice could be used
as cattle feed. The pilot plant production would be marketed by the new Proj-
ect Department of KSPC (para 9).
Organization and Management
9.        KSPC was set up a new Project Department within its existing
legal structure with specific responsibility for implementing the cashew
development sub-project. The Department would be headed by a full-time
director of high caliber. He would be directly responsible to the Managing
Director of KSPC and assisted by three deputies: a technically qualified
Plantation Superintendent who would be directly responsible for managing
the two plantations; an Industrial Assistant to be in charge of pilot
project operations; and a Finance and Administrative Assistant to be res-
ponsible for finance, procurement, marketing and administrative functions.
The Superintendent would be resident on the new plantation, supported by an



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Assistant Superintendent, making periodic visits to the plantation where
rehabilitation activities are planned. The latter unit would be placed in
the control of another Assistant Superintendent. Field operations would be
supervised by Field Assistants who would each be expected to supervise day-
to-day operations on about 500 ha. Suitable arrangements would be made to
provide social amenities for the supervisory staff, the laborers and their
families. An organization of the cashew development subproject is given in
the attached Chart. Capital and operating costs for new plantation, rehab-
ilitation, and pilot project activities are given in the accompanying Tables.



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Csshew Development - 3,750 Ha Farms
Investment Costs(Rs '000)
YEARS                                  1          2           3          4           5           6            7        Total
New Planting - 1,470 Ha
Capital Costs                      747.5      1,072.0    1,440.2    718.0        388.2         -            -
Operating Deficit                  332.3        374.1      430.4    716.1        757.4       380.7          _         -
Sub-total                    1,079.8      1,446.1    1,870.6  1,434.1    1,145.6         380.7          _      7,356.9
Rehabilitation - 2.280 Ha
Capital Costs                      273.6        150.5       189.3
Operating Deficit                  238.8         -           -
Sub-total                      512.4        150.5      189.3       -          -            -            -        852.2
Infrastructure                     1,500          500         300        -          -            -            -      2,300.0
Buildings and Services             2,787.0        698.0       477.0      -                       -                   3,962.0
Vehicles and Equipment               535.0        315.0       165.0      -          -            -            -      1,015.0
Cashew Apple Processing Plant        450.0        270.0        -         -          -            _            -         720.0
Total                        6,864.2      3,379.6    3,001.9  1,434.1    1,145.6        380.7           -     16,206.1
Total(including 1u% phys.   7,550.0       3,717.0    3,302.0  1,577.0    1,259.0         419.0          -     17,624.n
contingencies)
Total  ($ '000)                 *9 413.0                R67.n    175.n      14n         L,n           _ n,o8  n
8/12/76



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cashew Development
Projected Operating Results
(Rs '000)
Years                      Pre-Project        1          2          3          4          5          6           7          8          9         10         11          12       and after
Rehabilitation (2280 ha)
Production ('000 kg.)                           376.2      752.4   1,140.0   1,539.0   2,075.0   2,633.0   2,873.0   3,146.0   3,238.0   3,306.0   3,374.0   3,420.0   3,420.0                   3,420.0
Income - before Overhe                        1,055.0       93.5   1,614.2   2,535.4   3,814.4   5,440.1   6,083.0   6,849.1   7,090.8   7,280.0   7,473.8   7,603.8   7,603.8                   7,603.8
Less Overhead expenses-                          -         332.3      374.1      430.4      440.6      450.9      461.2      479.0       478.7      495.0       507.0      522.5      522.5        522.5
Net Operating Income                          1,055.0    (238.8)  1,240.1   2,105.0   3,373.8   4,989.2   5,621.8   6,370.1   6,612.1   6,785.0   6,966.8   7,081.3   7,081.3                    7,081.3
New Planting (1470 ha)
Production ('000 kg.)
Year 1 plantings = 500 ha                      -          -          -          -          50.0      150.0      300.0      400.0       600.0      750.0      900.0   1,000.0   1,000.0         1,000.0
Year 2 plantings = 500 ha                      -          -          -          -          -          50.0      150.0      300.0       400.0      600.0      750.0      900.0   1,000.0        1,000.0
Year 3 plantings = 470 ha                      -          -          -          -          -          -          47.0      141.0       282.0      376.0      564.0       705.0      846.0        940.0
Sub-total                                                                                  50.0      200.0      497.0       841.0   1,282.0   1,726.0   2,214.0   2,605.0   2,846.0            2,940.0
income before Overheads
Year 1 plantings                               -          -          -          -        (275.5)    (31.0)    370.5        634.5   1,202.5   1,628.5   2,054.5   2,338.5   2,338.5             2,338.5
Year 2 plantings                               -          -          -          -          -        (275.5)    (31.0)    370.5         634.5   1,202.5   1,628.5   2,054.5   2,338.5           2,338.5
Year 3 plantings                               -          -          -          -    -                 -       (259.0)    (29.2)    348.3         596.4   3,130.3   1,530,8   1,931.3          2,198.2
Sub-total                                                                                (275.5)   (306.5)       80.5      975.8   2,185.3   3,427.4   4,813.3   5,923.8   6,608.3             6,875.2
Less Overhead Expenses                           -         332.3      374.1      430.4      440.6      450.9       461.2      479.0      478.7       495.6      507.0      522.5      522.5         522.5
Net Operating Income 2/                          -        (332.3)   (374.1)   (430.4)   (716.1)   (757.4)   (380.7)    496.8   1,706.6   2,931.8   4,306.3   5,401.3   6,085.8                    6,352.7
1/ Overhead Expenses have been shared equally between both activities.
2/ Pilot plant for cashew apple processing assumed to operate on a break even basis,
I >
a : 



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
Cashew New Planting - 1 Ha Model
(Rupees)
YEARS                                      1           2           3           4           5           6           7           8           9            10          11
- Capital Costs
Land Development                         500
Inputs:
Planting Material                      40           6         6
Fertilizer                            115         230       360
Plant Protection                                   18        48
Others                                 50         128       133
Sub-total                       205         382        547
Wages                                    790         267        279
Total                         1.495         649        826
Operating Costs
Inputs:
Fertilizer                                                              360         360          360         360         360         360         360         360
Plant Protection                                                          75        104          156         208         208         208         208         208
Others                                                                   112         132         132         132         132         132         132         132
Sub-total                                                          547         596         648         700         700          700         700         700
Wages:
Maintenance                                                              279         291         291         303         303         303         303          303
Harvesting                                                                25          75         120         128         192         240         288          320
Sub-total                                                          304         366         411         431         495          543         591         623
Total                                                              851         962       1,059       1,131       1,195       1,243        1,291       1,323
Production of Nuts (kg)                                                     100         300         600         800       1,200       1,500       1,800        2,000
Operatint Revenue                                                             300         900       1,800       2,400       3,600       4,500        5,400       6,000
Net Operating Revenue                                                        (551)        (62)        741       1.269       2,405       3.257        4,109       4.677        W
8/12/76



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cashew Rehabilitation - 1 Ha Model
(Rupees)
YEARS                Pre-Project           1           2           3          4          5            6           7           8           9          10          11
Capital Costs
Inputs:
Planting Material                     4           1
Fertilizer                           12          23           36
Plant Protection                                  2            5
Others                                5          13           14
Sub-total                       21          39           55
Wages                                    99          27           28
Total                          120          66           83
Operating Cost/
Rehabilitation
Inputs:
Fertilizer                          180         202          225        286        286          286         286         286         286         286         286
Plant Protection                     94         140          188        196        199          204         210         210         210         210         210
Others                               90         108          120        131        134          134         134         134         134         134         134
Sub-total                      364         450          533        613        619         624          630         630         630         630         630
Wages:
Maintenance                         531         261          272        300        300          300         300         300         300         300         300
Harvesting                           54          81          108        144        160          188         206         220         227         232         235
Sub-total                      585         342          380        444       460          488          506         520         527         532         535
Total              32          949         792          913     1,057      1,079        1,112       1,136       1,150       1,157        1,162       1,165
Production of Nuts (kg):
- Old Trees              165          330         500          500        900      1,125        1,200       1,300       1,300       1,300       1,300       1,300
- New Trees                -           -           -            -          10         30           60          80         120         150         180         200
165         330         500          675        910      1,155        1,260       1,380       1,420       1,450       1,480       1,500
Operating Revenue            495          990      1,500        2,025      2,730      3,465        3,780       4,140       4,260       4,350       4,440       4,500
Net Operating Revenue        463           41         708       1,112      1,673      2,386        2,668       3,004       3,110       3,193        3,278       3,335            3 t
Incremental Net                                                                                                                                                                 D
Operating Revenue                      (422)       245          649      1,210      1,923        2,205       2,541       2,647       2,730       2,815       2,872            4. 4-
8/12/76



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART-CASHEW DEVELOPMENT
Managing Director
KSPC
Internal Audit                                                                                                                         Other Existing
Department                                                                                                                             Depastments
L_    _            _                                i       Cashew Project        |P
Piantatbon                                                   Finance an -  -------ni-     -  -  - - -  -  - -  -  --n I strial 5
Superintendent        _         _             _____tative Assista~nt                                                                      Assistant|
l  Assistant      l
_  Superintendent      _
(New Plantation)
Assistant                                                                                             Cas hew
_  Supefintendent    _Apple
(Rehabilitation)                                                                                       Processing
{<                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wolid Bsank- 16555
4D11



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seed Gardens
General
1.        The Kerala Department of Agriculture (KDOA), having recognized the
importance of high quality planting material, has set up several nurseries,
particularly for coconut, cashew, and pepper. However, so far no agency
has set up a seed multiplication project for plantation crops. 1/ This sub-
project is therefore designed to meet the future needs of HYV, disease tolerant/
resistant and otherwise superior quality seed for the large areas of plantation
crops remaining to be replanted and for the new areas to be brought under
cultivation. GOK has decided that KDOA should undertake seed multiplication in
a government-owned farm for coconut, cashew, cocoa, pepper and other important
spices. GOK has already identified more than 500 ha of land suitable for this
purpose. The effective area under seed garden is, however, expected to be
about 435 ha.
Coconut
2.        The coconut seed garden would be established in 300 ha and planted
with selected superior dwarf variety coconut to serve as mother trees.
One-half of the area would be planted with local dwarf (preferably Chavakkad
yellow and Gangabondam) and the other half with imported dwarfs - preference
being given to Malayan Orange or Red. Sufficient number of seedlings of
West Coast Tall variety from identified pre-potent trees would also be planted
to be used as pollen parents. Pollination would be assisted using selected
parents. During the pre-project period suitable sites and sources of supply
for local dwarfs and progenies of pre-potent trees would be located and
negotiations entered into regarding the import of dwarfs. GOK has estimated
its future annual requirements of planting material for a replanting program
of 1.5% of existing areas, and for planned area expansion at about 6 million
nuts. Existing sources in the State could supply nuts for about 1.5 million
seedlings. The proposed seed garden would provide 1 million nuts in project
year eight, 2 million by year eleven, and 2.75 million in year fifteen
when all 300 ha would be in full production. Production from this garden
would also be supplemented from State Farms Corporation garden of 200 ha now
being established.
Cashew
3.        A cashew seed garden in 50 ha would be established from superior
high-yielding cultivars identified in the country. As far as possible vege-
tatively propagated clonal material would be used. High density planting
1/ The State Farms Corporation of India has made arrangements, only recently,
to enter into seed production for plantation crops on a limited scale.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(preferably through hedge system of planting) would be adopted for the garden
to facilitate selective thinning of substandard types and ultimately retain-
ing only superior high yielding progenies in the garden. This seed garden
which would be planted in HYV material, adequately fertilized, and efficiently
managed, should yield about 2,000 kg nuts per ha when in full production.
Assuming that only two-thirds of such production would be suitable for use as
seeds, 1,335 kg would be available. In Kerala, one kg of seeds is known to
yield 60 seed nuts. Thus 1 ha can provide about 80,000 seeds, adequate
to plant 400 ha. The seed garden of 50 ha would therefore be capable of
producing annually seeds for about 20,000 ha replantings and new plantings.
At full production, the output from these gardens should make it possible
for GOK to offer surplus seed nuts to the other cashew growing States in
India.
Pepper
4.        Pepper is propagated best from cuttings of the runner shoots which
originate at the base of the vines. Cuttings would be collected only from
high yielding and healthy vines possessing desirable characters. Rooted
cuttings both for new planting and replanting programs under the project would
be supplied mostly from Panniyur I and accredited older varieties of Karumunda,
Kalluvally and Kottanadam. In Kerala the total area now under pepper is about
120,000 ha and a replanting program of 3% would represent an area of about
3,600 ha to be replanted annually. This area at an intensity of 3,300 vines
per ha would require about 12.0 million rooted cuttings for planting. The
present production capacity in the State is estimated at 1 million cuttings.
This could be expected to increase to 2.5 million cuttings in the near future.
One ha of mature pepper has an annual production potential of 100,000 cuttings.
The 60 ha garden planned by the State Farms Corporation could in due course
produce 6 million cuttings, leaving a shortfall of 3.5 million cuttings to be
provided. Thus, an additional 35 ha under the project should be adequate to
fill the gap of 3.5 million cuttings.
Clove and Nutmeg
5.        Seeds of clove and nutmeg are difficult to obtain and the demand
from smallholder farmers is on the increase. These seeds, especially cloves,
deteriorate very quickly. Under the Central Nursery Scheme sponsored by GOI
in its Fifth Five Year Plan about 500,000 seedlings are planned to be produced
in Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. As the actual demand from farmers is
expected to be far in excess of this planned supply, tree spice seed gardens
would be established under the proposed project on 25 ha.
Cocoa
8.        Since farmers are being encouraged by GOK to interplant cocoa
under irrigated coconut, there is a growing demand for disease resistant
planting material. Improved Forestero types, particularly of Amelanado



ANNEX 5
Page 3
parents, would be planted in the cocoa seed garden. As the total extent of
lands to be brought under cocoa is not known with any certainty now, only
20 ha has been provided for the cocoa seed garden.
Phasing
9.        The establishment of the seed gardens would be phased as indicated
below:
Project Year/a          2    3    4       Total
-------- ha ------------
Coconut                                 100  200   -        300
Cashew                                   50   -    -         50
Pepper                                   35   -    -         35
Cloves                                    3   3    4         10
Nutmeg                                    5   5   10         20
Cocoa                                     5   5   10         20
Total                                                  435
La   No plantings planned for Project Year 1.
The capital and operating costs of the various seed gardens are summarized
in Tables 1 and 2.
Organization and Management
10.       Seed gardens would be a distinct administrative entity, under the
Special Agricultural Development Unit, with exclusive staff. The chief
executive of this sub-project would be an officer at the level of Joint
Director of Agriculture. As seed garden work, particularly hybridization
operations in coconut, would involve large scale employment of labor, an
officer at Joint Director level is considered necessary. Assisted by a Farm
Superintendent who would be in direct charge of operations in the coconut seed
garden, he would also coordinate and supervise the activities in all other
gardens. He would be assisted by another technically specialized officer at
the level of Deputy Director of Agriculture to be in direct charge of cashew,
pepper, tree spices and cocoa gardens. Also attached would be Junior Agricul-
tural Officers and Demonstrators specialized in the different crops and
support staff for administrative and financial functions. Details of staffing
for the seed gardens are shown in Table 3.



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seed Gardens (435 Ha) - Investment Costs
(Rs '000)
Total
1           2         3          4          5          6          7          I to 7
I.  Land Development                     226.0                                                                             226.0
II. Agricultural Development
Coconut - Year 2 - 100 ha           -         275.0      189.2      227.9      259.8       -          -
Year 3 - 200 ha         -           -         550.0      378.4      455.8      519.6       -
Sub-total         300 ha         -          275.0      739.2      606.3      715.6      519.6       -           2,855.7
Cashew  - Year 2 -  50 ha           -           57.7      35.1       44.0       20.6       -          -              157.4
Pepper  - Year 2 -  35 ha           -         109.1       93.4       47.5       23.8       -          -              273.8
Cocoa   - Year 2 -   5 ha           -          31.8       27.5       24.8       12.5       -          -               -
Year 3 -   5 ha         -           -          31.8       27.5       24.8       12.5       -
Year 4 -  10 ha         -           -           -         63.5       54.9       49.6       25.0            -
Sub-total          20 ha         -           31.8       59.3      115.8       92.2       62.1       25.0           386.2
Cloves  - Year 2 -   3 ha           -           17.0       8.9        8.2       10.8       14.2       14.4            -
Year 3 -   3 ha         -           -          17.0        8.9        8.2       10.8       14.2            -
Year 4 -   4 ha         -           -          -          22.7       11.9       10.9       14.4            -
Sub-total          10 ha         -           17.0       25.9       39.8       30.9       35.9       43.0           192.5
Nutmeg  - Year 2 -   5 ha           -           12.1        7.7        7.7      10.2       12.1       12.3            -
Year 3 -   5 ha         -           -          12.1        7.7        7.7       10.2       12.1            -
Year 4 -  10 ha          -           -          -         24.2       15.4       15.4       20.4             _
Sub-total          20 ha         -           12.1       19.8       39.6       33.3       37.7       44.8           187.3
Total (II)                       -          502.7      972.7      893.0      916.4      655.3      112.8        4,052.9
Total (I) + (II)                226.0       502.7      972.7      893.0      916.4      655.3      112.8        4,278.9
III.  Buildings & Infrastructure         1,972.0       430.0       -          -          -          -          -           2,402.0
IV.  VehicleS & Equipment                 298.0       145.5       -          -          -          -          -             443.5
V.  Staff & Admin. Expenses              170.6       263.9      277.7      617.2      809.2      892.8      634.6        3,666.0
Total                         2,666.6    1,342.1   1,250.4   1,510.2   1.725.6   1,548.1           747.4       10.790.4
Total (including 107.
Physical Contingencies)         2,932.6    1.476.1   1,375.4   1,661.2   1,898.6    1,703.1          822.4       11,869.4
9/28/76



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seed Gardens
Pro1ected Operating Results
(Rs '000)
Year                                                                                                                                          15
Years-/                            5           6         7         8          9         10        11         12        13         14         andafter
Seed Production
Coconut ('000 nuts)                            -          132.0     528.0      924.0   1,320.0   1,716.0   2,046.0   2,244.0   2,442.0   2,640.0          2,772.0
Cashew ('.000 kg )                             -            3.3       9.9       19.8       26.4      39.6       49.5      59.4       66.0       66.0          66.0
Pepper ('000 cuttings)                      1,750.0    2,800.0   3,500.0   3,500.0   3,500.0   3,500.0   3,500.0   3,500.0   3,500.0   3,500.0            3,500.0
Net Income (Rs '000 Al
Coconut  (300 ha)                              -           (8.6)    225.3      978.8   1,732.6   2,493.4   3,127.8   3,491.0   3,867.8   4,244.6          4,495.8
Cashew  (50 he)                      -                    (20.7)     23.0       92.4     138.4      234.1      305.9     377.8      425.6     425.6         425.6
Pepper  (35 ha)                               (47.2)       15.7      66.5       77.0      87.5       87.5       87.5      87.5       87.5       87.5          87.5
Income  (Before Overheads)                    (47.2)     (13.6)    314.8   1,148.2   1,958.5   2,815.0   3,521.2   3,956.3   4,380.9   4,757.7            5,008.9
Less Overhead Expenses                        762.0       906.4     949.4      949.4     949.4      949.4     949.4      949.4      949.4     949.4         949.4
Net Operating Income                         (809.2)    (920.0)   (634.6)    198.8   1,009.9   1,865.6   2,571.8   3,006.9   3,431.4  3,808.3             4,059.5
1/ Production commences only in Year 5.
2/ Operations relating to cocoa, nutmeg and cloves are assumed to be on a cost recovery basis, hence a no Income is shown in this statement,
in these items.
9/2/76



ANNEX 5
Table 3
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seed Garden - Staffing Proposed
YEARS                                                         6 and
1     2     3      4    5      After
Technical
Joint Director of Agriculture              1     1      1     1    1        1
Deputy Director of Agriculture             1     1      1     1    1        1
Farm Superintendent                        1     1      1     1    1        1
Junior Agricultural Officers               3     5      5     7    7        7
Agricultural Demonstrators                 5    11    12    17   17        17
Pollinators                                -     -      -    50   75      100
Mali                                       -     2      3     4    4        4
Non-Technical
Financial Assistant                        -     -     -      1    1        1
Administrative Assistant                   1     1      1     1    1        1
Clerks                                     2     4      4     4    4        4
Typist                                     1     1      1     1    1        1
Stenographer                               1     1      1     1    1        1
Drivers                                    2     2      2     2    2        2
Peons                                      2     2      2     2    2        2
August 25, 1976



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Research and Training
Introduction
1.        Agricultural research in India relating to project crops - coconut,
cocoa, cashew, pepper and intercrops - is carried out by the Agricultural
Universities and by units of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research
(ICAR). In Kerala, this research has been carried out since 1972 by the
Agricultural University of Kerala (AUK) and the Central Plantation Crops
Research Institute (CPCRI) which is a unit of ICAR.
Agricultural University of Kerala
2.        The following State research units are now responsible to AUK:
-    three Coconut Research Stations and three Coconut Sub-
stations;
-    one Rice Research Station and four Rice Sub-Stations;
-    two Agronomic and one Horticultural Research Station;
-    two Pepper Research Stations;
-    one Cashew Research Station;
-    one Banana and Pineapple Research Station;
-    one Lemongrass Research Station; and
-    one Cardamom Research Station.
AUK has three constituent Colleges - College of Agriculture, College of
Horticulture and College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences. AUK programs are
of applied nature with reference to the particular agroclimatic conditions of
Kerala. Apart from carrying out experiments in its various research stations,
AUK undertakes numerous adaptive trials in cultivators' gardens.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
The Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI)
3.        CPCRI was established in 1970 as a national research institution
under ICAR and financed by GOI. It was formed by the amalgamation of the
Central Coconut Research Stations at Kasaragod and Kayamkulam (Kerala), the
Central Arecanut Research Station, Vittal (Karnataka) and its five regional
stations. Its headquarters are in Kasaragod; the Pepper Research Station at
Taliparamba in Cannanore District has been recently transferred to the CPCRI.
A regional research station for spices has been recently set up in Kozhikode
District but due to financial constraints it still has very little staff and
equipment. Sub-stations have also been set up in different agro-climatic
zones. CPCRI is conducting research on coconut, arecanut, cocoa, oil palm,
cashew and the major spices. The concentration of efforts, however, is on
coconut research. Variety collections are maintained of coconut, cashew and
pepper. Much work is done on selection of suitable crosses for hybrids, with
emphasis on the root-wilt tolerance of these hybrids. Research is also
carried out on intercropping of coconut with grass, vegetables, cocoa, etc.
In the studies on pests and diseases, special attention is paid to the root-
wilt disease of coconut, particularly at the Station Kayamkulam. In pepper
cultivation the development of control methods for quick wilt and slow wilt
and the pollu disease is an important part of the program. The research
programs of the AUK and the CPCRI are complementary and implemented with close
cooperation and coordination.
4.        Besides conducting and guiding research in the different disciplines
related to plantation crops, CPCRI coordinates the research work on planta-
tion crops done by other Institutes, Universities and State Departments of
Agriculture. It also serves as a center of information in the country on
all matters relating to plantation crops.
5.        CPCRI specializes in basic research with concentration on diseases,
whereas AUK specializes on adaptive research with emphasis on agro-techniques.
Both institutions also undertake training programs aimed at the farmer, both
directly and through GOK's extension service staff. These institutions have
achieved commendable results through their past activities, particularly on
coconut, cashew, pepper and intercropping. But the research input on these
crops has been small in relation to their importance in the national economy.
Research efforts have therefore to be intensified to provide the necessary
support not only for the project program but also for the ambitious agricul-
tural development programs planned by GOK. Provisions have been made in the
Fifth Five Year Plan to enhance the research inputs. However, supplementary
facilities were considered essential to support the development proposed under
this project.
Project Proposals
6.        The research programs of AUK and CPCRI which would be supported by
the funds provided under this project are summarized in the Appendix. Provi-
sion includes research and support staff, fellowship and training overseas,



ANNEX 6
Page 3
laboratory facilities, transport and technical assistance in specialized
fields. Project costs are shown in Table I. Effective implementation of the
programs listed in Appendix would require additional laboratory facilities and
more testing equipment, especially the more sophisticated equipment like the
electronmicroscope required for root-wilt disease research (Tables 2 and 3).
Funds for employing additional research and teaching staff considered absolutely
essential have also been provided (Table 4). To enable AUK to undertake
surveys and conduct research in the plantings in the project area, it is
necessary to provide transport facilities. Seven vehicles - I car, 2 vans and
4 four-wheel drive vehicles - have been included for this purpose.
Training and Technical Assistance
7.        AUK and CPCRI would continue to provide in-house training to
farmers and extension service staff.  Some AUK and CPCRI staff too would
themselves require overseas training in some research fields and in the use
of sophisticated equipment required for specialized investigations envisaged.
The services of experts in the fields of Nematology, Pathology and Micro-
biology for a total of 18 man-months would be obtained to assist in the work
carried out by CPCRI.
8.       Training and technical assistance aspects relating to the Rubber
Processing sub-project are described in Annex 7.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page I
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Research and Training
Future Programs Requiring Support
1.        Funds provided in the project would strengthen the following research
programs carried out by the Agricultural University of Kerala (AUK) and the
Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI) in respect of the major
project crops.
2.        Coconut - AUK Program
(a) Survey of gardens to find out superior types, particularly
those which show resistance to major diseases and pests.
(b) Ascertain the best criteria for selecting the hybrid seed-
lings in the seedlings stage, because the F1 progenies
show wide variation as the parents are heterozygous.
(c) Study of agro-techniques: Detailed studies on manurial
requirements both macro-nutrients and micro-nutrients;
formulation of leaf analysis standards for wide scale
adoption by cultivators.
(d) Irrigation studies to determine the best method of irri-
gation and frequency of irrigation for different agro-
climatic regions in the State.
(e) Determining the economics of inter-cropping, best
combination of intercrops and their effect on various
crop components in the long run.
(f) Study of the control of Nephantis serinopa and
other pests and diseases of coconut.
(g) Evolving high yielding varieties which are tolerant
or resistant to different pests and diseases.
(h) Working out production programs for different types
of holdings.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 2
3.        Coconut - CPCRI Program
(a) Electron microscopy of tissues of plants and vectors for
detection of virus and virus-like agents.
(b) Studying presence of spirochaete/spiroplasma.
(c) Isolation and identification of fungi associated with
the vascular disorganization.
(d) Pathogenicity test.
(e) Role of insects associated with coconut in transmission
of the disease.
(f) Infectivity and distribution pattern of nematodes, and
their role as vectors.
(g) Nematicidal trials.
(h) World collection of germplasm and screening varieties and
hybrids for resistance/tolerance to the disease.
(i)  Histopathological and histochemical studies.
(j) Development of suitable agrotechniques for root (wilt)
affected area including water management, multiple
cropping and intensive cropping.
(k) Isolation and mass culturing of antagonistic organisms
from soil.
(1) Studies on soil and tissue microfauna other than nematodes/
lower fungi associated with root (wilt) disease.
(m)  Serodiagnostic tests for identification of pathogens in
the early stage of disease.
(n) Metabolic derangement and translocation pattern in the
disease affected palms.
(o) Studies on enzymes, phenol oxidizing isoenzymes.
(p) Removal of affected palms and integrated soil and plant
treatment in the border area (Shencottah) to assess the
effectiveness of the above treatments in checking the
spread of the disease.
(q) Foliar analysis and fertilizer response studies.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 3
4.        Pepper - AUK Program
(a) Breeding better varieties.
(b) Studies on diseases and their control.
(c) Studies on the agro-techniques such as manurial require-
ments, cultural operations etc.
(d) Standardization of a leaf analysis technique for fer-
tilizer recommendations;
(e) Studies on spike shedding;
(f) Evolve suitable management practices (including cultural
and land shaping aspects, moisture and soil conservation
measures and cropping programs) for the crop which is
grown on lands with undulating topography and uneven dis-
tribution of rainfall.
5.        Pepper - CPCRI Program
(a) Collection and evaluation of germplasm material - indigenous
and exotic.
(b) Study the impact of input technologies on the yield perform-
ance and quality attributes of pepper.
(c) Investigate and identify the physiological and genetic
barriers limiting the production potential and formulate
purposeful breeding programs.
(d) Elucidate the physiological/biochemical path-ways in the
biosynthesis of chemical principles in pepper and suggest
breeding programs for quality improvement.
(e) Characterize the quality standards for pepper for market
acceptance.
(f) Study the effect of maturity, plant protection chemicals
and improved agrotechniques on the quality.
(g) Epidemiology studies on 'Quick wilt' and 'Slow wilt' of
pepper.
(h) Determine the role of nematodes in the incidence of 'Slow
wilt' disease of pepper.
(i) Screening germplasm materials and evolution of varieties
with resistance/tolerance to major diseases and pests.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 4
(j) Evolving effective control measures against Quick wilt
and Slow wilt diseases.
(k) Evolving varieties tolerant to drought.
(1) Evolving integrated pest management practices including
biological control against the major pests.
(m)  The exploitation of natural heterogenity of the crop by
raising large number of open pollinated seedlings and
by screening them for desirable character.
6.        Cashew Program (AUK and CPCRI)
(a) Genetic improvement of the crop for new planting and
replanting needs.
(b) Survey, selection, multiplication of superior genotypes
in existing plantings.
(c) Propagation techniques.
(d) Nutritional studies.
(e) Orchard management practices.
(f) Pest and disease control.
7.        Cocoa Program (AUK and CPCRI)
(a) Standardization of agro-techniques such as manuring, intercul-
tivation and irrigation for different agro-climatic regions.
(b) Standardization of tissue analysis as a means to find out the
nutritional requirements of the crop.
(c) Ascertain the optimum pruning methods for maximum production.
(d) Studies on optimum shade requirements under Kerala conditions.
(e) Standardization of vegetative propagation methods for large
scale multiplication of selected varieties or types.
8.   Extension Training
The farmers should be educated on the various aspects of cultivation
of these crops, the extension workers should have up-to-date knowledge on the
technology of increased production of these crops. Therefore, the following
program as a means of extending the research findings at the University level
is proposed:



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 5
(a) In-service training for officers of the Kerala
Department of Agriculture; and
(b) Training program for research staff in the improved
use of sophisticated equipment and on the latest
methodology of different investigations.
To achieve the above objective, it is necessary to strengthen the technically
specialized personnel in this field and to provide additional facilities.



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Research, Training and Technical Assistance
Costs (Rs '000)
Foreign
1        2         3        4        5       Total            %
CPCRI (Research on Coconut)
Equipment                      731.5    731.5       -        -        -       1,463.0          60
Staff                          143.9    148.9    153.8   158.7   163.6          768.9          -
Trials                         100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0          500.0          -
Training OvYseas                67.0      67.0      66.0     -        -         200.0         100
Consultants-                   396.0    396.0    396.0       -        -       1,188.0          85
Sub-total      1,438.4  1,443.4    715.8   258.7   263.6    4,119.9              63
CPCRI (Research on Pepper)
Equipment                      478.5    478.5        -       -        -         957.0          60
Staff                          195.4    201.9    207.8   213.6   220.0    1,038.7              -
Trials                          20.0      20.0      20.0    20.0    20.0        100.0          -
Training Overseas               67.0      67.0     66.0      -        -         200.0         100
Sub-total        760.9    767.4    293.8   233.6   240.0    2,295.7              34
Total - CPCRI            2,199.3  2,210.8  1,009.6   492.3   503.6    6,415.6               53
AUK
Building                       500.0       -         -       -        -         500.0          20
Equipment                    1,550.0  1,550.0       -        -        -       3,100.0          60
Vehicles                       410.0       -         -       -        -         410.0           30
Staff                          207.0    215.3    223.6   231.9   240.1    1,117.9              -
Training Overseas              100.0    150.0    150.0       -        -         400.0         100
Total - AUK              2,767.0  1,915.3    373.6   231.9   240.1    5,527.9               45
Total before Contingencies    4,966.3  4,126.1  1,383.2   724.2   743.7    1,1943.5                49
Total (including 5% physical
Contingencies)               5,214.0  4,332.0  1,452.0   760.0   781.0    1,2539.0             49
1/ 3 Consultants for six months each (US$6,000 fee plus $1,000 allowance per man month; plus three
times $2,000 for travel from abroad).
August 27, 1976.



0
ANNEX 6
Table 2
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Research, Training and Technical Assistance
Equipment Required by Agricultural University of Kerala
Re '000
Radioisotope Laboratory
Building                                                      500
Instruments                                                  600
Atomic absorption spectrophotometer                             200
Spectrophotometer                                              150
Plamephotometer                                                150
Aminoanalyser, automatic                                        150
Nitrogen analyser, automatic                                    150
X-ray diffraction unit                                          150
Gas chromatography Unit                                         100
Warburg's apparatus                                              50
Ultra microtome                                                 5
Refrigerated centrifuge                                          50
Ultracentrifuge                                                 150
Deep Freeze                                                     150
Mobile soil testing unit                                       300
Photography Unit                                               100
Mist propagation Unit                                          200
I-ray photography Unit                                         100
Xerox machine                                                  100
Miscellaneous equipment                                        200
Total                 3600
August 26, 1976



Table 3
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Research Training and Technical Assistance
Equipment Required by CPCRI
Rs '000
Research on Coconut
Electron microscope                                              1,000
High vacuum shadow casting equipment                               150
Stereo microscope-wild - 3                                          30
Microtome A.0. Spencer -                                            12
Microtome knife sharpener                                           10
Fraction Collector                                                  15
Liquid Scintillation Counter with
automating sampling unit                                         100
Spares for Ultracentrifuge                                          10
Ultrasonic cleaner and Ultrasonic tissue
disintegrator - 1 each                                            60
Deep Freezer                                                        20
Lyophiliser                                                         35
Mettler single pan micro balance                                    17
Vacuum Oven                                                          4
Sub-total                1,463
Research on Pepper
Spectrophotometer                                                  100
Growth Chambers - 2                                                200
Mist Chambers                                                       50
Gas chromotography unit                                            100
Amino acid analyser                                                200
Soil temperature tanks - 3                                          35
Mettler single pan microbalance                                     17
Wiley Mill                                                          20
Pressure plate apparatus,
compression pump, gauges and
ceramic plates - 1 set                                            15
Pressure memberance apparatus
with accessories - 1 set                                          15
Neutron moisture gauge                                              50
Trinocular Research Microscope                                      75
Stereomicroscope - 3                                                30
Miscellaneous equipment                                             50
Sub-total                  957
Total                   2,420
August 26, 1976



ANNEX 6
Table4
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Researc, Training and Technical Assistance
Staffing Proposed
Agricultural University of Kerala            Scale of Pay (Rs)          No.
Professors of Horticulture (one              1100-1600                  4
for each crop) in COCOnUtscocoa,
cashew and pepper
Associate Professors                         750-1250                   3
(one each for)
Tn-strumentation
Radiological (safety officer)
Chemistry (Radiotracer)
Assistant Professors (one each for)          600-1200                   6
Horticulture
Plant Pathology
Nematology
Virology
Biochemistry
Soil science
CPCRI: Research on Coconut
Pathologist                                  1100-1600                  1
Virus Entomologist                               "                       1
Electron Microscopist                                                    1
Anatonist,                                                               1
Agronomist                                                              1
Biochemist                                                               1
Junior Nematologist                          700-900                     1
Secretarial Staff                            400-700                    2
CPCRI: Research on Pepper
Senior Pathologist                           1500-1800                   1
Senior Entcmologist
Senior Agronomist                                                        1
Scientist (Soil Physics)                     1100-1600                   1
Scientist (Biochemistry)                                                 1
Scientist (Physiology)                                                   1
Scientist (Horticulture)                         "
Junior Microbiologist                        700-900                    1
Junior Biochemist                                "                      1
Secretarial Staff                            400-700                     2
August 26, 1976



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rubber Processing Sub-Project
Introduction
1.        Rubber in India is grown on about 225,000 ha and more than 125,000
holdings. Kerala's share of this area is estimated to be 95%. Like most other
tree crops in Kerala, rubber is grown predominantly by smallholders although
they account for only 60% or so of the natural rubber production. A large
proportion of these smallholders do not grow other crops nor do they have any
alternate sources of income. Hence, most of the families depend entirely on
rubber for their livelihood.
2.        Most smallholders process their rubber into ribbed smoke sheets
(RSS) in their homes without proper facilities. Rubber sheets are dried
inside the houses and smoking is done in the kitchen. Such crude methods
result in poor quality product and a large percentage of scrap. Existing
facilities are thus inadequate, inefficient, unhygienic and uneconomic.
3.        With the increase in total planted area of more than 50% over the
last ten years, coupled with intensified extension, and special replanting
programs, rubber production in the State is expected to increase twofold
within the next ten years. Additional processing capacity has, therefore,
to be provided for this increase. Indian Rubber Board (IRB) has thus planned
to set up crumb rubber processing factories to meet part of the future in-
creased processing capacity required.
Project Proposals
4.        Under this project funds would be provided for:
-    the establishment of nine small new 10 ton/day crumb rubber
factories;
-    extension of the existing crumb rubber factory at Palai in the
Kottayam District;
-    construction of godowns and provision of marketing facilities;
-    setting up within IRB a Rubber Processing Department and a
central testing laboratory for coordinating the processing
and the marketing of technically specified rubber; and



ANNEX 7
Page 2
-    training and technical assistance.
5.        Each of these factories would be designed to produce 10 tons crumb
rubber per day operating three shifts. In order to ensure that smallholders
would derive the maximum benefit from the processing and marketing of rubber,
IRB and GOK have favored that these new crumb rubber factories should be
owned and operated by Cooperative Rubber Marketing Societies (CRMS). In some
of the project areas, the CRMS might not be large enough or the majority
membership of the Society in the locality might not want it to enter into a
rubber processing venture. In such a case, it is proposed that the apex or-
ganization, the Kerala Cooperative Rubber Marketing Federation (KRMF), should
set up and operate that factory. The factories would be equipped to produce
B Grade Crumb rubber 1/ using a blend of approximately 70%t80% scrap grades
and 30%/20% higher grades (lot sheets or field latex). As the factories would
be designed also to handle field latex, switching over to production of lower
quality C Grade or of premium quality A Grade would be feasible and add
flexibility.
Location of Factories
6.        The major factors that would determine the location of the new
factories are:
-    concentration of smallholder rubber producers;
-    availability of smallholder latex, sheet rubber;
-    availability of scrap grades now sold at low prices;
-    location of existing or projected crumb and crepe rubber
factories;
-    availability of suitable land and labor;
-    facilities for and cost of treating factory effluent;
-    proximity to supporting services; and
-    management capability of prospective owner Cooperative.
The new factories would be sited on the more important rubber growing tracts
with a view to reducing collection costs of the raw material. As Kottayam is
the most densely planted District in Kerala, three of the new factories would
probably be located there. Quilon District would have two factories and one
each would be located in Alleppey, Cannanore, Kozhikode and Palghat Districts.
1/   A Grade is the highest quality crumb rubber, and C Grade the lowest.
B Grade is an in-between quality most likely to be produced because
it is consumed in large quantities by tire industries' (Appendix 1,
para 1).



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Phasing of Factories
7.        The time lag between selection of site to commissioning the factory
would be about 18 months. The phasing of the factories allows realistic time,
particularly in view of the organizational and training effort required both
at the CRMS level and in the IRB. Institution building has to be the fore-
runner to successful implementation of this subproject. This is no mean task
dealing with institutions which hitherto have had no experience in rubber
processing or in managing industrial units. The phasing of the proposed
factories would be:
No. of            Factory             Factory
Phase        Location         Factories          Planning         Commissioning
I         Kottayam             2 )            Early 1978          Mid-1979
Kozhikode            1 )
3
II         Cannanore             1 )
Quilon               1 )           Mid-1979            Late 1980
Idikki               1 )
3
III         Alleppey              1 )
Kottayam             1 )
Palghat              1 )           Late 1980           Early 1982
Quilon               1 )
4
/1   Includes the factory at Palai slated for expansion.
Each factory when commissioned would operate for a time on one eight-hour
shift. The factories would be put on the second and third shift operations
as quickly as organization and management would permit because of the sig-
nificant reduction in the unit costs of production to be made when working
at higher throughput.
8.        A description of crumb rubber processing is given in Appendix 1.
Investment costs are summarized in Table 1. Capital costs of a new crumb
rubber factory operating three shifts with a daily capacity of 10 tons are
given in Table 2. Costs of expanding the existing factory at Palai are shown
in Table 3. As CRMS do not have the organization or experience in marketing
processed rubber on a large scale, technically specified crumb rubber to be
produced by the Cooperatives would be marketed as far as practical through
KRMF. Costs of providing additional marketing facilities to KRMF are shown
in Table 4.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
Organization and Management
9.        All but five of the thirty-six CRMS in Kerala have had no experience
in rubber processing and only the CRMS at Palai has some experience of process-
ing crumb rubber. The apex federation KRMF itself has yet to undertake any
major processing activities. It might be considered that these institutions
are not the most suited to establish and manage new crumb rubber factories.
However, emphasis was placed primarily on improving the financial return to
the thousands of smallholders who would participate. It was also considered
desirable to take the opportunity to strengthen management capability generally
of the Cooperative institutions in Kerala. It was therefore decided to
encourage the Cooperative sector to own and operate these factories proposed
under the project but to provide adequate organizational and managerial
safeguards, more importantly:
(i) At the CRMS level, the Secretary of the Society should not
directly involve himself in factory operations or manage-
ment. The chief executive of the processing activity should
be a Factory Manager who would be assisted by exclusive
technical and administrative staff.
(ii) Establishment of a Rubber Processing Department within IRB
to be headed by a project leader at IRB Director level and
supported by three full-time IRB Officers, namely, a Rubber
Specialist (Chemical), Processing Engineer, and Economist/
Financial Advisor. All three Specialist Officers of this
implementation unit should be given suitable overseas
training in technical, organizational and commercial
aspects of crumb rubber processing and marketing.
(iii) Provision of overseas training to the factory managers of
the five Cooperative Societies which would set up the crumb
rubber plants in the first two project years.
(iv) Obtaining engineering services (for a total of about 27 man-
months) from consultants experienced in the construction and
operation of crumb rubber processing plants to assist the
IRB Rubber Processing Department in site selection, and to
be responsible for preparation of designs and specifications
for the factory buildings and machinery, including effluent
treatment, and in supervising the factory construction and
commissioning.
(v) Establishment by each participating CRMS of a Factory Manage-
ment Committee which would have representatives of IRB,
Registrar of Cooperative Societies, and the State Cooperative
Bank and the Factory Manager as members.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
(vi) Procuring factory machinery and equipment under inter-
national competitive bidding procedures, and letting
factory construction and related civil works contracts
under local tender procedures.
(vii) Obtaining the services (for a total of 12 man-months) of a
crumb rubber processing specialist, to visit India periodi-
cally and assist IRB executives in their implementation and
coordination work.
10.       The staffing requirements for the Rubber Processing Department in
IRB and for the individual crumb rubber factories are summarized in Appendix
2. TOR for technical and engineering advisory services are in Appendix 3.
Cost estimates for the Training and Technical Assistance components are in
Table 5. Operating costs are shown in Table 6.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page I
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crumb Rubber Processing
Introduction
1.        Crumb Rubber, also described as 'block rubber' because of its appear-
ance, has been produced and sold as technically specified rubber for many years
by major rubber producing countries, led by Malaysia. The raw material required
for producing rubber can be field latex, RSS or scrap, or a blend of these.
The quality of the end product depends on the proportion in which the premium
grade and low grade rubber are blended. The highest value product is Grade A
usually made totally out of latex, or high grade RSS. The lowest quality is
Grade C made totally out of scrap grades. An in-between quality, styled Grade
B rubber, is the one consumed in largest quantities. The Grade B rubber could
be produced with 30/70% blend of RSS and scrap grades. If field latex is
used, the scrap grades could be raised up to 80%. As the major project
objective is to increase the value obtained by smallholders for their scrap
grades of rubber, preference has been shown in factory design and production
planning for processing Grade B crumb rubber.- Grade B also provides a more
favorable rate of return on investment. However, adequate flexibility would
be built in to enable these factories to switch wholly or partly from using
lot sheets to latex, and also from Grade B to Grade A and Grade C if market
circumstances warrant such changes.
Grade B Processing
2.        The quality of the smallholder scrap material is rather poor, being
high in dirt content and low in Plasticity Resilence Index (PRI) - a measure of
rubber quality. Test results in Kerala of early and recent batches of Grade B
block rubber derived from scrap materials reflect the poor quality of the raw
materials as well as the application of inadequate processing knowhow. The
dirt content in RSS is generally lower and the PRI higher than scrap grades.
To ensure that the output of the factory consistently meets the Grade B
specifications, it is necessary to blend about 30% by weight of lot sheets
(20% of field latex) with the scrap materials. Arrangements should be made to
obtain lot sheets from the smallholder before they are completely dry. Sheets
of about 90% dry rubber content (DRC) are convenient to handle, economical to
transport and easy to process at the factory.
Treating Scrap Rubber
3.        Prior to processing, the scrap material is soaked in water storage
tanks for three days; this allows sedimentation of dirt and softens the rubber



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 2
for ease of handling. The surface layer of scrap rubber with 85% drc is
virtually dry and not tacky; storage in the tanks should not result in signi-
ficant agglomeration of the scrap material. Since a larger proportion of the
scrap material has high dirt content, it is essential that it is passed
through a creper/hammermill for pre-cleaning. The water-recirculating trough
beneath the creper/hammermill serves to blend the scrap granules and to
settle "heavy" dirt. The granules are then passed over a static screen and
fall into a reception tank. The static screen separates the granules from
"light" dirt like bark, etc. The tank acts as a buffer since the process
is operated as a stop-start operation. Some settling of dirt also occurs
here. The scrap granules are then formed into a blanket by 6-9 passes through
three crepers. The "side-by-side" arrangement of the crepers provides further
opportunity for blending. The scrap blankets are then stacked one over the
other.
Factory Design
5.        A possible layout of a factory producing 10 tons Grade B crumb rubber
per day is shown in the attached Chart. The layout, design and specifications
for the factories to be constructed under the project would, however, be
prepared on a case-by-case basis by the CRMS concerned in consultation with
the IRB Rubber Processing Department and the Engineering Consultants.
Disposal of Factory Effluent
6.        The disposal of factory effluent would be an important considera-
tion in the choice of factory sites. Effluent from crumb rubber factories
must be treated before discharge into a waterway, which is large enough to
dilute the effluent at least tenfold. The factory would as far as possible
be sited in an area where the population density and agricultural activities
downstream from the factory are low. Improper planning of effluent disposal
could lead to grave problems because Kerala State is densely populated and
its people use the rivers frequently. This problem of potential localized
pollution of the rivers can be particularly grave during the dry months.
The standards of effluent discharge into rivers set by GOI are also rather
stringent. Consequently, in the estimates for capital investment, adequate
provision for effluent treatment has been made. The estimates are based
on the anaerobic stabilization treatment system developed recently in
Malaysia. This is a simple system of passing the effluent through a rubber
trap which would retain the solids to be recycled in the factory and let the
liquid flow into an anaerobic pond. The liquid would be retained here for
about a week and then passed into a stabilizing pond to remain for a further
two to three weeks before being discharged into a drain or stream. The
effluent from the ponds could also be used in gardens as a source of nitrogen.
IRB Processing Department would be responsible for setting acceptable standards
for effluent treatment to be followed by each of the factories.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 3
Technical Certification of Crumb Rubber
7.        The Rubber Research Institute of India in collaboration with the
Institution of Standards of India has established a scheme to regulate and
control the issue of Test Certificates by individual producers of crumb
rubbers. Under this scheme, the individual factory will sample and test
its own production and issue its own test certificates. The Control Labora-
tory for Issue of Test Certificates (in the Rubber Research Institute) regularly
samples the factory's production and cross-checks on the factory's testing
standard. This arrangement avoids the need to send samples to a central
testing laboratory which could result in delay between production and dispatch
of a consignment of rubber. The individual factory will test 10% of the bales
produced. During the initial phase of production, the Control Laboratory will
test 10% of the rubber bales. But the level of testing could be reduced
progressively to between 1% and 3% depending on the grade of rubber tested.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Chart
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CRUMB RUBBER FACTORY DESIGN
CREPERS FOR-,                 M~~~~AINS
CREPERT FOR            LATEX COAG            BOARD ELECTRICAL
SOAKING TANK      LO  HETBAKEIGTANKS                        'SUB-STATION
LOT SHEET                                  ---------   ----
7 x 4 M.           O          O                                                   SOLIDS
_       L _PUMP
_ _                               BELT CONVEYOR                    VIBRATION
mm                        D     E     L _2    O  O  O                   STANKSCREEN
M        ~~>   CREPERS FOR SCRAP                         CEE
BLANKETING                         HAMMER MILL           2
0
AREA                  3
l _____       l____       g___               9x3M.                  r
M
M    7 STAGE
--    DRYER
SCRAP       SCRAP       SCRAP           STORAGE SPACEFOR           Z
8 x 4 M.    8 x 4 M.    8 x 4 M.         FINISHED PRODUCTS
M
PRESS
SCRAP STORAGE                                            AREA FOR TROLLEY
TRANSFER
SCALE
TABLE
SCALE- 1:200
World Bank-16574



ANNEX 7
Appendix 2
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rubber Processing
Staffing Requirements
1.   IRB Processing Department
Project Leader (Director)
Rubber Specialist (Chemical)
Processing Engineer
Economist/Financial Analyst
Chemists (2)
Engineering Assistants (2)
Market Research Assistant
Cost Accountant
Draughtsman
Clerks (7)
Stenotypists (3)
Peons (2)
2.   Crumb Rubber Factory
Factory Manager
Assistant Manager (Finance)
Procurement Assistant
Foremen (3)
Mechanics (3)
Electrician
Chemist
Laboratory Technician
Clerks (3)
Driver
Watchmen (2)
Laborers (45 - 15 per shift)



ANNEX 7
Appendix 3
Page 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rubber Processing - Terms of Reference
I. Rubber Processing Department
1.        The Rubber Processing Department will be established as a division
within the Indian Rubber Board (IRB) to be the apex implementation unit for
the crumb processing sub-project. It will be headed by a full-time Project
Manager placed at the level of IRB Director. He will be assisted by three
full-time senior executives specialized in the fields of chemical engineering,
process engineering, and financial management, and given special overseas
training in crumb rubber production, processing and marketing management. The
Department will be provided with its own accommodation, equipment, vehicles,
support staff and facilities adequate to plan, coordinate, advise and monitor
all crumb rubber processing and marketing operations proposed under this
project.
2.        The functions of the Department will include:
-    liaison with the Project Coordination Committee set up
for the Kerala Agricultural Development Project;
-    general coordination and monitoring of Crumb Rubber
Processing sub-project;
-    detailed planning of the sub-project implementation;
-    liaison with the Cooperative Rubber Marketing Societies,
Kerala State Cooperative Rubber Marketing Federation,
Kerala State Cooperative Bank and the Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation;
-    representation in the Crumb Rubber Factory Management
Committees set up by the Cooperatives;
-    advising participating Cooperatives on business policy
and recruitment of senior factory executives.
-    recruitment of consultants for engineering and technical
advisory services;
-    arranging training, locally and overseas, of Depart-
ment executives, factory managers and other factory
personnel;



ANNEX 7
Appendix 3
Page 2
operating the IRB's crumb rubber pilot plant at Kottayam;
arranging field surveys of smallholder rubber areas to
recommend location of factories;
assisting the Cooperatives and the engineering service
consultants in preparing the factory layout, and speci-
fications; and in setting effluent treatment standards
for each factory;
issuing of bidding documents for factory and related procure-
ment, subsequent evaluation of bids received, and recommending
contract awards;
reviewing progress reports from Cooperatives;
preparation of quarterly progress reports on project implementation;
liaison with GOK, GOI and IDA;
IDA disbursements relating to rubber processing sub-project.
II. Engineering Services
3.        The services of a consulting company with minimum five years'
experience in the planning, designing, construction and operation of crumb
rubber processing factories and in marketing technically specified rubber will
be engaged by the Indian Rubber Board (IRB) for a total of about 27 man-months
to provide engineering services related to design, construction supervision
and initial operation of about 10 crumb rubber processing factories.
4.        The consultant company shall appoint a specialist chief qualified
by experience in managing similar engineering assignments to be responsible
for the company's other specialists to be assigned under the proposed contract.
5.        Engineering Services will include:
-    assisting in the selection of factory sites;
-    assisting in the factory investment planning;
-    preparation of designs and detailed specifications
for factory buildings, equipment and supporting
facilities;



ANNEX 7
Appendix 3
Page 3
assisting in the preparation of bid documents for
factory civil works and equipment procurement;
assisting in bid evaluation, preparing bid evalua-
tion reports and commenting on recommendations for
bid awards;
supervising and certifying crumb rubber factory build-
ing construction and machinery installation;
assisting in and supervising the factory operations
for up to three months after date of commissioning of
the factories;
arranging and supervising the training of personnel
as envisaged in Section III on Training (see below);
and
generally advise IRB and Cooperatives on engineering
matters related to the crumb rubber processing sub-
project.
III. Technical Advisory Services
6.        The services of a crumb rubber processing specialist will be engaged
for a total of twelve man-months to visit India periodically and assist the
senior executives of IRB Processing Department in their planning, coordination
and monitoring work.
7.        The specialist should be a professionally qualified chemical or
mechanical engineer with not less than five years  experience in crumb rubber
processing which should have been gained either as manager of a crumb rubber
factory or as a consultant on crumb rubber processing.
8.        As soon as possible after his appointment, the specialist will
visit India and spend up to six months and assist IRB in preparing:
-    the detailed implementation program for the sub-project;
-    the TOR for the senior executives of the IRB Processing
Department;
-    overseas training programs for the executives and for
prospective factory managers;
-    detailed recommendations for the organization and manage-
ment of the new factories;
-    recommendations for improving the performance by the Palai
crumb rubber factory;



ANNEX 7
Appendix 3
Page 4
-    a proforma progress report to be prepared by factory managers
for review by IRB Processing Department; and
-    a monitoring program for the factories to be carried out by
IRB Processing Department.
9.        Thereafter he will periodically visit India, spending about two
months on each occasion and:
-    review progress;
-    make field visits;
-    assist IRB Processing Department executives and factory
managers on technical, organizational or other matters
as may be requested by these persons;
-    prepare progress report at each visit; and
-    make further recommendations as he considers necessary.
IV. Training
10.       Training programs would include technological aspects relating to
construction of factories, managerial aspects covering procurement of raw
materials, production control, marketing and financial management of crumb
rubber factories.
11.       The chemical engineer, the processing engineer and the economist/
financial analyst would each be trained in a country, preferably Malaysia,
for a period of three months in crumb rubber processing and marketing aspects
specializing in their respective fields. The project leader and a marketing
executive would also be sent overseas for short period orientation in crumb
rubber business.
12.       Each of the ten crumb rubber factory managers would be given train-
ing for about six months. Training overseas, preferably in Malaysia, would be
arranged for managers of the first five factories set up by the Cooperative
Rubber Marketing Societies of Federation. The other managers would receive
their training locally in the new factories set up.
13.       Machine operators, mechanics, laboratory technicians and foremen
will be given instruction, training and orientation at the crumb rubber pilot
plant operated by the Rubber Board, and at Palai factory located in the
Kottayam District.



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rubber Processing - Investment Costs
(Rs '000)
Capital Costs                                      1          2       3        4        5       6      7     Total
Crumb Rubber Factories (9 new)
Land and Preparation                           550        825    1100       -        -       -      -      2475
Building and Civil Works                        -        1334    2001      2668      -       -      -      6003
Plant, Machinery, Others                        -          -     4374      6561    8748      -      -     19683
Sub-total                                550       2159    7475      9229    8748       -     -      28161
Palai Factory Expansion                            -        1323      -        -        -        _     -       1323
Marketing Facilities                               -          -     5120       -        -        -     -       5120
Control Laboratory (IRB)                          140        140     130       -        -        -     -        410
Vehicles (IRB)!/                                  200         -        -       -        -        -     -        200
Total                                     890      3622   12725       9229    8748      -      -     35214
Recurrent Costs
IRB Processing Department Staff                   269        277     285       293      302      311   321    2058
Others8'                                           50         50       50        50      50       50    50      350
Total                                     319       327      335       343      352     361   371    2408
Technical Assistance and Training                1510        897      474      474      -        -     -       3355
Total                                    2719      4846   13534    10045    9100        361   371   40977
Total (including 10X physical                                                                                       (bx
contingencies)                   2991       5331   14887    11051   10010        397   408   45075             _
/  4 wheel drive vehicles (2).
2/ Vehicle running costs (Rs 15,000 per vehicle) plus administrative costs.



ANNEX 7
Table 2
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rubber Processing
Investment Costs - 10 Ton Crumb Rubber Factory-'-
(Rs '000)
Land and Reparation
Five Acres of Land                                           250
Land Preparation, Road, Drainage (10%)                        25          275
Building and Civil Works
Factory Building 35x35m at Rs 350/m 2                        429
Offices, Laboratory 12x24m at Rs 430/rm2                     124
Garage, Toilet, Canteen 15xl5m at Rs 270/m2                   61
Scrap Soaking Tanks, Granule  Tanks (Brick)                    5
Bulking and Coagulation Tanks                                 48          667
Plant and Machinery
Coagulum Crusher (1)                                          45
Crepers (7)                                                  315
Belt Conveyors (2 of 6m each)                                 40
Creper Hammer Mills (2)                                      180
Solid  Pumps (4), Static Screens (2), Piping                  14
Trolley Dryer (1), Trolleys (3)                              230
Baling Press (1), Scale (1)                                  130
Installation Charges                                          50
Latex Collection Centers (5)                                  35
Latex Transport Tanks 1250 1 (15)                             18         1057
Supporting Facilities
Electrical Transformer (800 KVA), Cables                     320
Water Supply, Tank (300,000 1), Pipes                        265
Effluent Treatment                                           130
Laboratory Equipment (40 samples/day)                        145
Workshop Tools                                                40
lOT Lorry (1) Four Wheel Drive Vehicles (2)                  230         1130
TOTAL                         3129
1/ Working 3 shifts per day.
August 27, 1976



ANNEX 7
Table 3
INDIA
.KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMEN PROJECT
Rubber Processing
Capital Investment on Palai Factory Expansion
(Rs '000)
Buildings and Civil Works
Factory Building Extension (321m )                                138
Scrap Soaking Tanks, Granules Receptive Tanks                       5
Bulking and Coagulation Tanks                                      48
Demolition of Old Soaking Tanks                                     1
Sub-total                192
Plant and Machinery
Crusher (1)                                                        45
Crepers (4)                                                       180
Solids Pumps (2), Static Screen (1)                                 7
Belt Conveyor (1 of 6m)                                            20
Trolley Dryer (1), Trolleys (3)                                   230
Reinstallation of Machinery                                         6
Latex Collection Centera (5)                                       35
Latex Transport Tanks 1250 1 (15)                                  18
Sub"total                541
Supporting Facilities
Electrical Transformer, cables ...                                210
Water Supply                                                      120
Effluent Treatment Plant                                          130
lOT Lorry (1)                                                     130
Sub-total                590
Total                  1.323
August 27, 1976



ANNEX 7
Table 4
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rubber Processing - Marketing Facilities
Costs (Rs '000)
Land _/                          950
Buildin 2/                     3,150
10 T Trucks (6)                  780
7 T Trucks (3)                   240
Total                     5,120
1/ Land cost for 0.5 acre each in Cochin, Kottayam and Kozhikode and for 0.3
acre  each in Bombay, Delhi and Calcutta.
2/  1500 m2 ggdowan each 'in Cochin, Kottayam and Kozhikode.
1000 m2 godown each  in Bombay, Delhi and Calcutta
9/24/76



ANNEX 7
Table 5
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rubber Processing - Technical Assistance and Training
Costs (Rs '000)
Engineering   1/   1     2      3     4       Total
Engineering Servicesr-
Travel                            60     60      60    60        240
Subsistence                       54     54      27    27        162
Fee                              486    486    243   243       1,458
Sub-total                  600    600    330   330       1,860
Technical Advisory Services-/
Travel                            18     18      18    18         72
Subsistence                       54     18      18    18        108
Fee                              324    108    108   108         648
Sub-total                  396    144    144   144          828
Training Abroad3/
Travel                            96     18      -     -         114
Subsistence                      250     81      -     -         331
Training Fee                     168     54      -      -        222
Sub-total                  514    153      -      -         667
Total         1,510    897    474   474       3,355
1/  27 man-months (9 in year 1 and 2, 4.5 in year 3 and 4).
21  12 man-months (6 in year 1, 2 in year 2-3-4).
3/ 5 IRB officials and 3 Factory managers in year 1 and 2 Factory
managers in year 2.



ANNEX 7
Table 6
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rubber Processin8
Monthly Operating Costs of a Crumb Rubber Factorv-!
Management                                                    _
Manager (1)                                                1,200.0
Assistant Manager Finance (1)                                800.0
Procurement Assistant (1)                                    500.0
Chemist (1)                                                  750.0
Laboratory Technician (1)                                    350.0
Electrician (1)                                              350.0
Clerks (2)                                                   600.0
Accounts Clerk (1)                                           350.0
Watchmen (2)                                                 500.0
Lorry Driver (1 - plus overtime)                             800.0
Indirect Benefits (30%)                                    1,860.0       8,060.0
Labor      _
Unskilled (14 per shift)                                  10,500.0
Skilled (1 per shift)-                                       900.0
Shift Foremen (1 per shift)                                1,050.0
Indirect Benefits (30%)                                    3,735.0      16,185.0
Miscellaneous Administrative Expenses-/                                  7,500.0
Factory Expenses
Repair and 8 intenance3/                                   5,285.0
Electricity-                                              26,250.0
Packing Materials                                         20,000.0
Transport Expenses (2500 km )                              4,200.0
Specification Testing                                     12,500.0      68,235.0
Total (250 T)                                                     99,980.0
1/ Maximum Capacity lOT per day, operating 3 shifts for 25 days.
2/ Includes Travelling Expenses (Rs 2000) and Insurance (Rs 1000).
3/  0.5% of machinery cost.
4/ 0.7 Kw/kg. at Rs 0.15/kw.
9/3/76



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs
(Rupees Million)
YEARS            1       2        3         4         5        6         7       Total
Smallholder Development
(Annex 8, Table 2)
Coconut New Plantings            0.34    1.76      3.94      5,40     6.09      6.48      5.52     29.53
Coconut Rehabilitation           1.23    7.97    22.66    37,44    37.93    23.38         9.11    139.72
Pepper Rehabilitation            2.16   10.33    20.90    23.90    17.33        8.20      2.28     85.10
Irrigation Facilities             -       2.98    13.72    22.67    16.11       4.18       -       59.67
Sub-total                  3.73   23.04    61.22    89.41    77.46    42.24    16.91    314.02
Electric Reticulation             -       1.74     7.98    13.19       9.37     2.43       -        34.71
(for irrigation pumps)
Seed Gardens                      2.67    1.34      1.25     1.51      1.72      1.55     0.75      10.79
Extension Ser-ices and           4.06    7.18      7.94      5.57     4.61      3.37      2.11     34.80
Project Coordination 2/
Cashew Development 3/            6.86    3,38      3.00      1.43      1.14     0.38       -        16.21
Agricultural Research 4/         4.97    4.13      1.38      0.72      0.74      -         -        11.94
Rubber Processing 5/             2.39    4.65    13.42       9.94      9.10     0.36      0.37      40.23
TOTAL BASE COSTS          24.68   45.46    96.19   121.77   104.14    50.33    20.14    462.70
Contingencies
- Physical                     1.63    1.97      4.40      5.19     3.00      2.04      0.21     18.46
- Price (and Rounding)         1.49    6.27    22.51    39.04    42.36    23.33         2.85    137.84
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             27.80   53.70   123.10   166.00   149.50    75.70    23.20    619.00
1/ Details are in Annex 5, Table 1.
2/ Details are in Annex 10, Table 1.
3/ Details are in Annex 4, Table 1.
4/ Details are in Annex 6, Table 1.                                                                                         x
5/ Details are in Annex 7, Table 1.                                                                                        m
October 14, 1976



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Smallholder Farm Development Costsl!
tIjupees *UJu)
Total
YEARS                          1          2          3         4          5          6          7        Year 1 to 7
Coconut New Planting
-  Without Irrigation        336      1,662     3,430      4,323      4,717     5,173      4,640          24,281
Coconut New Planting
-  With Irrigation                      103        514     1,077      1,369      1,311       878            5,252
Coconut Rehabilitation
-  Without Irrigation      1,233      6,798    15,295    19,308    15,794        9,061     3,9 25          71,414
Coconut Rehabilitation
- With Irrigation -
Cocoa                              389     2,142      4,683      5,555     4,352      2,616          19,737
Coconut Rehabilitation
- With Irrigation -
Dairy                              776     5,221    13,448    16,583       9,971      2,571          48,570
Sub-total Coconut
Development                1,569      9,728    26,602    42,839    44,018    29,868    14,630             169,254
Pepper Rehabilitation        2,163    10,332    20,900    23,897    17,331         8,195     2,281           85,099
Sub-total Coconut
and Pepper
Development              3,732    20,060    47,502    66,736    61,349    38,063    16,911             254,353
Irrigation Facilities.2/       -        2,983    13,723    22,673    16,110        4,177      -              59,666
Total                      3,732    23,043    61,225    89,409    77,459    42,240    16,911              314,019
1/ On-farm development costs (excluding irrigation) are derived- from Tables-land 2, Annex 2.                             X
2/ See Appehidix to this Annex.
9/23/76



ANNEX 8
Table 3
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPD .tT PROJECT
Price Contingency (Percentage)i1
Price2/
Calendar      Inflation       Project Year      Accumulated       Contingency
Year                          (Fiscal)         Inflation           Used
1976               7                                                 1.753/
1977               8                1                 8.0               8
1978               8                2                16.5              16
1979               8                3                25.7              26
1980               7               4                 35.0              35
1981               7                5               44.5              45
1982               7               6                55.0              55
1983               7                7               65.5              66
1984               7                                    
1/  Same rate for foreign and local costs.
2/ Price increase as of October (mid-Project year).
31 1/4 of 1976 Annual Inflation rate (Base cost as of October 1976).
Source: Guidelines issued by Bank India Division.
October 13, 1976.



ANNEX 9
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
(US$'000)
IDA Fiscal Year                 Disbursement                  Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                  During Quarter                   at Fnd of Quarter
FY 1978
1t _t
2nd                               300                                 300
3rd                               400                                 700
4th                               500                              1,200
FY 1979
1st                               500                              1,700
2nd                               750                              2,450
3rd                               750                              3,200
4th                               800                              4,000
FY 1980
Ist                             1,000                              5,000
2nd                             1,000                              6,000
3rd                             1,500                              7,500
4th                             1,500                              9,000
FY 1981
1st                             1,500                             10,500
2nd                             1,500                             12,000
3rd                             1,600                             13,600
4th                             1,600                             15,200
FY 1982
1st                             1,600                             16,800
2nd                             1,600                             18,400
3rd                             1,400                             19,800
4th                             1,400                             21,200
FY 1983
1st                             1,200                             22,400
2nd                             1,200                             23,600
3rd                             1,000                             24,600
4th                             1,000                             25,600
PY 1984
1st                               750                             26,350
2nd                               750                             27,100
3rd                                750                            27,850
4th                                750                            28,600
FY 1985
1st                                700                            29,300
2nd                                700                            30,000
October 15, 1976



AN}NEX 10
Page 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organization and Management
General
1.        The Government of Kerala (GOK) recognizes the need for effective
organization and management to ensure successful implementation of this
complex project involving several components and about 75,000 farmers.
Appropriate care has therefore been taken to strengthen all institutions par-
ticipating in project activities. All activities to be undertaken directly
by GOK (coconut, pepper and seed gardens) would be entrusted to a Special
Agricultural Development Unit (SADU). Cashew development would be entrusted
to the Kerala State Plantations Corporation (KSPC). Rubber processing sub-
project would be supervised by the Indian Rubber Board (IRB). The research
component would be handled jointly by Central Plantation Crops Research
Institute (CPCRI) and the Agricultural University of Kerala (AUK). Invest-
ment credit would be supervised by ARDC.
Special Agricultural Development Unit (SADU)
2.        This unit has been set up with specific responsibility for small-
holder development and establishment of seed gardens. Smallholder activities
include coconut and pepper area development.   Coconut area operations cover
coconut new planting and rehabilitation, irrigated development, and inter-
cropping including cocoa and dairy farming. SADU would be headed by the
Kerala Agricultural Production Commissioner. The chief executive of SADU
would be a full-time officer at least of the level of Additional Director.
SADU would be provided with exclusive staff and facilities.
3.        The SADU Director would be assisted by four deputies for the
following specializations:
-    Cooperative movement, agricultural credit and input supplies
-    Coconut area development
-    Pepper and seed garden development
-    Finance and administration
These deputies would be appointed at the level of Joint Directors. The two
technically specialized Joint Directors would be supported by three assistants
appointed at Deputy Director level, also with specializations. These five
officers would carry primary responsibility for each of the following fields:



ANNEX 10
Page 2
-    Coconut rehabilitation
-    Coconut new planting
-    Pepper rehabilitation
-    Dairy farming
-    Seed gardens
Comprehensive extension services support is required for all smallholder com-
ponents. Accordingly, most of the technical staff would be stationed in the
field. Staffing details are shown in Appendix I and in Charts I and II.
4.        SADU headquarters would be in Trivandrum, the State capital.  For
purposes of field administration there would be seven District level offices -
one for each of the project area Districts and one for the seed gardens
component as follows:
I    Cannanore - for coconut area development including new
planting, rehabilitation, cocoa, fodder for
dairy, and other intercropping and pepper
rehabilitation;
II    Kozhikode - for coconut area development as in Cannanore;
III    Malappuram - for coconut area development as in Cannanore;
IV    Trivandrum - for coconut area development as in Cannanore;
V    Kottayam - pepper rehabilitation;
VI    Idukki - pepper rehabilitation;
VII    Seed Gardens - for coconut, cashew, cocoa, pepper, and spices.
At the District level offices, there would be one officer appointed at the
rank of Deputy Director to be in charge of each of the coconut Districts and
an Assistant Director for each of the pepper Districts and the seed gardens.
Dairy farming would require supervision from officers specialized in animal
husbandry. Four District Livestock Officers at Assistant Director level would
therefore be attached to the Cannanore, Kozhikode, Malappuram and Trivandrum
Districts.
Extension Services at Field Level
5.        Intensive technical support is considered crucial for the success-
ful implementation of development to be undertaken by smallholders. Special
care has therefore been taken to provide adequate extension services to help
project farmers. These facilities would supplement the services presently
provided by KDOA and the Department of Animal Husbandry. The extension
services approach planned under this project would be similar to that
followed by KDOA in the "Intensive Package Programs" for coconut and paddy



ANNEX 10
Page 3
commenced in 1973/74. These are designed to concentrate on a limited area
and on major crops, applying modern techniques of farming and using better
seed, stimulating the flow of credit and technical assistance (Annex 1,
para 12). Each extension unit consisting of 1,000 ha is supervised by a
team of three - one Junior Agricultural Officer and two Agricultural
Demonstrators. KDOA, through its extension service recommends to farmers
in the State, a special package of cultivation practices to be applied
for each of the major crops. Such packages generally follow the "Package
of Practices" published periodically by CPCRI for the respective crops.
Special Package Programs are sponsored by GOI which also provides financial
assistance. GOK engages incremental staff as needed from the pool of agri-
cultural graduates in Kerala. Extension education is now given by AUK which
in 1975 commenced in-service training for the staff of KDOA and the Depart-
ment of Animal Husbandry.
6.        Project extension services would be administered on this Intensive
Package system but staffing intensity in the project area would be doubled;
this is considered necessary to achieve a 80% coverage within three to four
years. Two Agricultural Demonstrators lead by one Junior Agricultural Officer
would form a team and cover a 500 ha package unit comprising 800 to 1,200
farm families - the staffing intensity at field level would be kept at one
extension worker for every 300-400 families during the initial three to four
years of development in any one extension package unit and to 600-800 there-
after until development is completed (two/three additional years). One Vete-
rinary Surgeon and three Livestock Assistants-per 500 ha of fodder grass
(supporting about 1,800 cows) would be posted in addition to the Agricultural
Officers. These would be needed for timely insemination, disease control by
way of vaccination, veterinary care and extension education on the feeding
and management of cross-bred cows and heifers, along side with the agricultural
extension work on forage production. As development is completed in project
areas staff would be transferred to extension units in other areas where
similar developments would be initiated, based on experience gained in the
proposed project.
7.        Since the density of farming population in any package unit would be
very high (with holdings averaging 0.4 ha), group meetings would easily be
called by extension officers in farmers' fields. These meetings would be
advertised through the local Cooperatives. Junior Agricultural Officers
would be assisted from time to time by specialists from KDOA and AUK. Also
mobile units from the Farmers' Training Centers - four in the State - would
be made available for use in project area. These would provide field officers
with publications and audio-visual equipment such as flip charts, blackboards
etc. Provision has been made for small extension office buildings in all
package units. Extension officers would be required to spend most of their
time in the field. They would also participate in local Cooperative Board
meetings as members or special invitees and in Panchayat 1/ meetings in order
to advertise the credit program and to ensure proper coordination between
credit and extension. Field staff would counsel farmers and help them to
1/ Elected local committee paralled to the Government Administration.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
prepare individual development programs and loan applications which would
be collected by the same officers who would pass them on to the Credit Co-
operative Societies. Field officers' daily records of activities would be
scrutinized by their supervisors who would make regular visits to the pack-
age units. The latter would verify whether meetings and field visits
carried out were effective and advise the field staff on improvements.
8.        For all field staff, mobility will be essential.  Transportation
facilities have therefore been provided - one motorbicycle for each field
worker (338) and one car for each supervisory staff (20). Provision has also
been made for vehicle operating and maintenance costs for the project period
(based on 20,000 km/year for cars and 10,000 km/year for motorcycles). Motor-
cycles would be sold to staff on credit, which is the best means of ensuring
proper care and maintenance. In addition, the project would finance six
10-ton trucks for transport of input supplies, mainly seedlings - 1.6 million
coconut seedlings would have to be transported from KDOA's nurseries over a
period of seven years. Also about 3,000 rocker-sprayers and 2,000 knapsack
sprayers are included in project costs. Spraying against coconut leaf disease
would be carried out twice a year in project farms by SADU engaging casual
workers. Full cost of spraying would be charged to farmers and included in
the investment loans.
9.        There is a good network of private and government facilities for
servicing of vehicles and equipment. GOK has an approved list of private
workshops where government vehicles and equipment could be repaired and
serviced. The government facilities owned and operated by the Engineering
Wing of KDOA are considered adequate for project needs.
10.       In-service training for all extension workers would be provided
by KDOA and AUK with assistance as necessary from CPCRI. Funds have been
included in the project for this purpose. Research support would be given
by both institutions. Researchers would not only serve on the advisory
panels to guide the implementation of the projects but also undertake
operational research in farmers' fields.
Kerala State Plantations Corporation (KSPC)
11.       The cashew component involves the management of two large farms -
one for new planting and the other to be rehabilitated - and cashew apple
processing. KSPC is thus best suited to operate these commercial scale
ventures. Since the Corporation had hitherto not engaged in such develop-
ment operations in cashew, it was necessary to set up within KSPC a new
Cashew Project Department to implement this sub-project. The Department
would be headed by a full-time Director who would report directly to the
Managing Director of KSPC and have its own administrative and technical
staff adequate to function independently of KSPC's other Departments
(Annex 4, para 9).



ANNEX 10
Page 5
Crumb Rubber Processing
12.       The crumb rubber factories would be owned and operated by coopera-
tives - Cooperative Rubber Marketing Societies (CRMS) and Kerala Rubber Mar-
keting Federation (KRMF). Most of these cooperatives have had no experience
in rubber processing. They would therefore be provided with technical and
organizational support through IRB. A Rubber Processing Department would
be set up within IRB to be headed by a Director as project leader. He would
be assisted by specially trained executives. The Department would be provided
with exclusive staff and facilities to enable it to coordinate the activities
of the cooperatives and to supervise the implementation of this sub-project.
The cooperatives themselves would have Factory Management Committees, exclu-
sive staff and facilities to enable the factories to be managed independent
of the societies' other activities (Annex 7, para 9).
Agricultural Research
13.       Agricultural Research component would be implemented by CPCRI and
AUK through a Joint Committee headed by the Vice Chancellor of AUK with repre-
sentatives of CPCRI, Kerala Department of Agriculture, Development Directorate
of GOI, and ICAR. The sub-project relating to AUK would be carried out at
its Vellanikkara Campus, and that of CPCRI at Kasaragod headquarters and its
regional stations in Kayamkulam and Kozhikode.
Project Coordination and Monitoring
14        P'roject coordination and monitoring would be effected through a
Project Coordination Committee (PCC). Since the project activities also in-
volve participation by Government departments, agencies and other institutions
outside the province of the Ministry of Agriculture, PCC would be headed by
the Kerala Agricultural Production Commissioner and have representation from
the State Ministries of Agriculture and Cooperation, SADU, ARDC, KSPC, IRB,
and GOI. The PCC would arrange to draw widely on the services of technical
advisory panels comprising representatives from relevant government depart-
ments, corporations, cooperatives, participating banks, marketing and other
institutions. PCC would be entrusted with specific responsibilities as
follows:
-    Project monitoring
-    Coordinate project procurement financed by the IDA Credit;
-    Liaison with all agencies participating in project implementation;
-    Liaison with GOI, GOK, and IDA;
-    IDA disbursements;
PCC would have attached to it a senior official full time to function as
its Chief Executive. He would be provided with necessary support staff and
facilities (Appendix 1).



ANNEX 10
Page 6
15.       A Project Evaluation Unit (Appendix 2) would be set up to follow up
project progress, identify problem areas and evaluate project benefits. This
unit would also serve to measure project impact on participants, comparing
costs and benefits realized with appraisal estimates and projections. The
chief executive of the Unit would be independent of all participating agencies
and report direct to the Agricultural Production Commissioner who would alsobe
the head of both PCC and SADU. Terms of reference for this Unit are given in
Appendix 2.
Project Implementation Schedule
16.       The phasings of project implementation activities agreed during
negotiations, are shown in the Charts in Annex 11.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organization and Management
Staffing Requirements
1.   SPECIAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT UNIT
Additional Director
Joint Directors (4)
Deputy Directors (3)
Personnel Assistant
Clerks (8)
Stenotypists (4)
Messengers (2)
Drivers (2)
2.   PROJECT COORDINATION COMMITTEE
Chief Executive
Assistants (2)
Stenographer
Messenger
3.   PROJECT EVALUATION UNIT
Chief Executive
Assistants (2)
Stenographer



ANNEX 10
Appendix 2
Page 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Evaluation Unit
1.        The proposed project comprises many types of development, involves
several institutions, and would affect the future of thousands of participat-
ing shareholders. The project is also capable of replication because the
development planned under this project represents only a small proportion
of tree crop area in Kerala and in the neighboring States slated for rehabi-
litation. In order to assist in the successful implementation of the project
and to ascertain that the benefits forecast now are in fact realized, a
Project Evaluation Unit would be established under the Agricultural Production
Commissioner. The Unit would be established before December 31, 1977 and
maintained for a minimum of ten years after commencement.
2.        The Chief Executive of this Unit would be an official at least of
the level of Deputy Director and have adequate support staff. He would be
responsible to and report directly to the Kerala Agricultural Production Com-
missioner. The Unit would be independent of all other institutions partici-
pating in project implementation to enable the Unit Chief to be objective
in his assessment and to ensure freedom in reporting.
3.        Project evaluation by this Unit would cover physical, technical,
financial, managerial and economic aspects of the project. The Unit would
carry out its activities by keeping close and continuous liaison with GOI,
GOK, and individuals and institutions directly and indirectly participating
in the project. The Unit would receive from project participants all in-
formation considered relevant for its functions. The following documents
would all be relevant for the Unit's evaluation and reporting work:
Project Appraisal Report
Development Credit Agreement
Project Implementation Schedules
Annual Budgets                      )
Quarterly Progress Reports          )
Draft Annul Accountsof participating institutions.
Draft Annual Accounts)
Annual Audit Reports                )
Correspondence with IDA and
Directives issued by PCC.
4.        The Unit would also make its own arrangements to collect information
and data required for its studies, both from project records and from outside
sources. Such arrangements should include field visits to:



ANNEX I0
Appendix 2
Headquarters, Branches, District Offices of all institutions
participating in the project,
Rubber Factories and Warehouses, and
Coconut, Pepper and Cashew Farms and Plantations.
The Unit Chief Executive should also maintain close liaison with the Chief
Internal Auditors of the participating institutions.
5.        The Unit would thus be able to identify major problems, deviations
from appraisal estimates and annual budgets, and possible corrective action
to be taken either by project managements or by governments. Reporting to
the Agricultural Production Commissioner could be oral and written.
6.        Topics reported on would include:
Deviations from agreed Implementation Schedules - causes, extent,
effects and action;
Project modifications from original plan - nature, reasons and
effects;
Variations of important assumptions made in the appraisal report;
Cost overruns and arrangements to meet them;
Efficiency of the participating institutions;
Credit Services to farmers;
Agricultural extension services;
Verification of project benefits realized by participants; and
Unusual features of significance.
7.        Written evaluation reports would be prepared by the Unit periodically -
at least half yearly - and submitted to the Agricultural Production Commissioner.
Copies of all evaluation reports would be made available to IDA for information.
The Unit together with SADU, ARDC, IRB and PCC would also assist IDA to pre-
pare the project completion report.



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Extension Services and Project Coordination
(Rs '000)
1        2         3         4         5        6          7      Total
Capital Costs l/
Buildings                      550      1375      700        -         -         -         -        2625
Vehicles                      1350      1185      798        -         -         -         -        3333
Equipment                      665       665      665        -         -         -         -        1995
Sub-total                   2565     3225      2163        -         -         -         -        7953
Recurrent Costs
Staff                         1201      3372     5052      4875      4047      3025      1856      23428
Others2/                       219       545      686       655       566       345       259       3275
Sub-total                   1420     3917      5738      5530      4613      3370     2115      26703
Training                           72        38        39       40        -         -         -         189
Total                            4057      7180      7940     5570      4613      3370      2115      34845
Total including 5%
Physical Contingencies           4259      7539      8337     5848      4844      3538      2221      36586
!/  See para 6.
2/  Includes administrative and vehicle running and maintenance costs based on 800 km per month for
motorcycle and 1,200 km per month for four wheel drive vehicles.
August 1976



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART-PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Agricultural
Production
Commissioner
Project
Coordination                                                                                                                                      Evaluation Unit
Committee
Project                             Rubber                          Chief Executive                     Cashew Project                          AUK & CPCRI
Advisory                           Production                             SADU                           DiretojeC                              AUKnt   CPCRi
_   Panels                      Commissioner                         (Addl. Director)                   Director-_KSPC
IRB Rubber         l                                                    Special Extension|l                                                              AKl
Processing Dept.  |                                                         Services        lAUK                                                                      l
|CRMS & KRMF Crumbl                                                      Smallholder Credit &l 
Rubber Factories  |                                                       Input Supplies   |                                                           CPCRI          l
Seed Garden         |
AUK  - Agricultural University of Kerala
CPCRI - Central Plantation Crops Research Institute.
CRMS - Cooperative Rubber Marketing Societies.
IRB   - Indian Rubber Board                                                                                                            World Bank-16557
KRMF - Kerala Rubber Marketing Federation.
KSPC - Kerala State Plantation Corporation.
SADU - Special Agricultural Development Unit.
rt |w



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART-SPECIAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT UNIT
|SADU 
Chief Executive                           L
|  Joint Director                      Joint Director                                                       Joint Difector                      Joint Director 
L  Creclit & Inputs     |      |Pepper L Seed Garden  ||                                                       Coconut          |         Finance & Administration|
CooA- pei rativ                  DeputypDirUtctorldDeputy Directors (3)                                                                     Fance
Bank                              Seed Garden                                                                                              Acutn
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
| Cooperative   |                                                    District Directors ||District Directors 1|                                 General
Land Mottgage~~~~~ Agriculture (6)  || Livestock (4)                                                                       Adiitrto
Cooperative                                        ~~~~~~~~Agricultural   ||            LvesternryPockmn
Marketing                                                          Demonstrts                           Assistants                            Audit
Federations 
SADU-Special Ago1cultural Development Unit                                                                                                          Woods Bank - 16556
I-,
0



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule - Special Agricultural Development Unit Activities
Q-uarternding    Dec 31      Mar 31       ne 30     Sept. 30     Dec 31     M.r 31      June 30     Sept.30
1976        1977       1077         1977       1977        1918        'ai8        1978
Responsible
Authority
Establish SADU                          GOK
Appoint Headquarters executive staff    GOK
Arrange office accommodation and        GOK
facilities for Headquarters           GOK
facilities
Appoint other staff for Headquarters    SADU
Prepare work program and management   SADU
procedures
Procure urgent items                    SADU
Transfer and take-over land suitable    GOK/SADU
for Seed Gardens
Construct buildings for seed gardens    SADU
Arrange planting material for farmers   SADUIKDOA
Arrange planting material for seed      SADU
gardens
Arrange new livestock for farmers       SADU/KLDMMB
Appoint District level executives       SADU
Appoint staff for seed gardens          SADU
Arrange field offices and               SADU
facilities
Project orientation for SADU            GOKISADU
Headquarters executives
Finalize District work program          SADU
Arrange transport facilities for        SADU
field staff
Appoint agricultural field extension    SADU
staff
Appoint livestock field extension       SADU
staff
Project orientation for all field       GOKISADU
staff
Procurement of equipment                SADU
Special training for extension staff    SADU
Commence extension work                 SADU
Conduct detailed ground water surveys    SADU/KDOA
in coconut package units
Ascertain electric reticulation         SADU/KSEB
needs in project areas
Assist potential participants with      SADI/BANKS
farm investment plans
Prepare Banking plans and credit        SADU/BANKS/
procedures                            ARDC
Arrange tor delivery of planting        SADU/KDOA                                            t    _     III
material to farmers
Arrange for delivery of livestock to    SADU/KLDMMB
farmers
Commence planting of seed gardens       SADU
SADU -  Special Agricultural Development                 BANKS -  Kerala Cooperative Central Land                  msems.  -  Repetitive activity
Unit                                                      Mortgage Bank and Commercial Banks
GOK -  Government of Kerala                              ARDC -  Agricultural Refinance and
KDOA -  Kerala Department of Agriculture                            Development Corporation
AUK -  Agricultural University of Kerala              KLDMMB -  Kerala Livestock Development
CPCRI -  Central Plantation Crops Research Institute                and Milk Marketing Board                                                     World Bank-16946



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule - Activities Related to Cashew Development
Quarter Ending   Dec 31    Mar 31    June 30    Sept 30    Dec 31    Mar 31    June 30    Sept 30    Dec 31    Mar 31
1976     1977       1977       1977      1977       1978      1a978      178       1078       1979
Respons,ble
Authoraiy
Establish Cashew Dept. (CD)                KSPC
Appoint Director in charge of CD           KSPC
Appoint Assistants                         KSPC
Avrange office accommodation and          KSPC
facilities for CD
Prepare work program and management    CD                                   _       -
procedures
Procurement of urgent items               CD
Procurement of farm equipment             CD
Transfer and take-over of KDOA's           KDOA/KSPC/CD
Cashew Farm
Transfer and take-over land suitable       GOK/KSPC/CD
for new planting
Arrange planting material                  CD
Appoint essential field staff and          CD
workers
Appoint additional staff for               CD
Headquarters
Construct plantation buildings            CD
Develop land for new planting             CD
Plant up new land                         CD
Appoint more field workers                 CD
Replanting in cashew farm                 CD
Buildings for Pilot Plant                 CD
Procure Pilot Plant equipment             KSPC/CD
Install and commission Pilot Plant        CD
KSPC -  Kerala State Planation            KDOA -  Kerala Department of
Corporation                                Agriculture
CD -  Cashew Department in KSPC          GOK -  Government of Kerala
mmiii -  Repetitive activity                                                                          World Bank-16945
e?X
ts r-



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule - Activities Related to Crumb Rubber Processing
OQrier ECd,g    D.c. 31 Mv, 31 tune 30 Sect 30 Dec 31 McI 31 June 30 Sept 30  31 31 MI 3  31 Juce 30 S 30 30 D31 M1 M3O 31 June 30 Sept 30 Dec 31 M, 31 Jc1ne 30 Sept 30 Dec 31 Mail3iun- 30
1976   1 977  1977  1977  1977   97 a 97   1978  1979  1979  1979  1979  1919  1990  190   1980  1980  1991  1991   991    91   993   99?
Rerpls,cnsil             
Establish Crumb Rubber Processing         IRB
Dept. (CRPD)
Appoint Director in charge of CRPD        IRB
Appoint 3 Specialist Assistants for       IRB
CRPD
Arrange office accommodation and          IRB
facilities for CRPD
Recruit Technical Assistance              IRB                      _
Consultants (TA)
Overseas training of Specialist          IRB
Assistants
Prepare work program and management    CRPD!
procedures                              TA
Arrange for CRPD general procurement      CRPD
Equip Central Laboratory                  CRPD
Survey of CRMS to locate participants     CRPDtCRMS
Selection of factory locations            CRPD/ CRMS
Prepare factory investment plans         CRMS/TA
Acquire land tor factories                CRMS/CRPD                           hase 1         _                      Phase 2
Form factory management committees        CRMSfCRPD                   Phase I                                P
Selection and traning for Factory         CRMS                                            Phase 1                                  ase 2                                 Phase 3
Managers                                CRPD/TA                      I
Prepare specifications tor new factories    CRPD/TA                   Phase 1                          Phase 2                         Phase 3
Issue tenders and make awards for new      do -                              Phase t                                Phase 2                                Phase 3
tactories
Prepare specifications for upgrading      - do -
Palat Factory
Procurement for Palai Factory             - do -
Factory construction and training          do -                                           Phase 1       l     l      [           Phase 2                                 Phase 3
Recruit Factory staff                     CRMS/CRPD                                                       h        1                          P        2Phase 3
Construct Warehouses                      KRMF/CRPD
Commission Factories                      CRMS/CRPD/TA                                                          ase 1                                      2                                 Phase 3
Procure Marketing equipment               CRPD/KRMF
CRMS -  Cooperative Rubber Marketing Societies           Phase -  Factory construction
KRMF -  Kerala Rubber Marketing Federation                         undertaken in three tranches
IRB -  Indian Rubber Board                                TA -  Technical Assistance
CRPD -  Crumb Rubber Processing                                    Consultants                                                                       World Bank- 16944
Department
cik



ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMEN' PROJECT
Bankin and Credit Services
Coconut and Pepper Area Development
1.        Coconut new plantings under the project would take place in
Cannanore, Kozhikode, and Malappuiram. Coconut rehabilitation would be in
these three Districts and also in Trivandrum. Pepper rehabilitation would
be in Cannanore, Kottayam and Idukki. Each Package Unit of 500 ha is also
treated as an administrative unit for credit purposes. The distribution of
package Units in the project area Districts would be:
Package Units
Coconut         Coconut
Districts          Rehabilitation   New Plantings   Pepper
Cannanore                  24                 3          10
Kozhikode                  26                 3           -
Malappuram                 10                 4
Trivandrum                 15                 -          -
Kottayam                            -                    2
Idukki                     -                  -          8
Total Package Units  75                 10         20
2.        In the six Districts selected for the coconut and pepper develop-
ment, there are sixteen Primary Land Mortgage_Banks (PLMB). In Cannanore
District, where much of the financing will be done, there are five PLMB of
which three (Cannanore, Kasargod and Tellicherry) are well established with
outstanding loans exceeding Rs 10 million. The fourth (Wynad Bank) has not
been faring well, and the Hosdurg Bank has been only recently organized.
These two PLMB would need particular attention. The Kozhikode and Badagara
PLMB in the Kozhikode District are strong - the latter has recorded 100%
recoveries. The Kozhikode PLMB, has recently improved its recovery perfor-
mance and is now eligible for unrestricted lending. The two PLMB in Malap-
puram have to increase their business quickly; their recovery performance is
satisfactory. The two older PLMB in Trivandrum are considered strong while
the third one at Neyyantinkara is new and has yet to commence lending in
earnest. The four PLMB in Kottayam and Idukki Districts have in the past
built up large business. However, not much new business was brought in during
1975-76. Thus, while the loaning operations of most of the PLMB are still in
low key, there would be no difficulty, whether on account of poor recoveries,
or for organizational or other reasons, in e-xpanding their lending operations



ANNEX 12
Page 2
The position of overd-s should, however, be reviewed on a -%<r.+Tuous basis by
all PLMB since good recovery performance would be crucial             allocation
for their lending programs.
Commercial Banks (CB)
3.        The Lead Banks (see para 18 in Appendix) in the Six Districts are:
District                            Lead Bank
Cannanore                   Syndicate Bank
Kozhikode                   Canara Bank
Malappuram                   Canara Bank
Trivandrum                   Indian Bank
(jointly with Indian Overseas Bank)
Idukki                      Union Bank of India
Kottayam                     State Bank of Travancore
All these banks, except State Bank of Travancore, are all-India institutions
operating country-wide and have experience in financing agriculture. They
have also been implementing a number of Credit Schemes sanctioned by ARDC.
The State Bank of Travancore which operates mainly in Kerala is a subsidiary
of the State Bank of India and has the largest number of branches in the
Kerala State. In addition, there are ,s many as twelve other public sector
banks including State Bank of India and fourteen non-nationalized banks.
The public sector banks together had 368 branches operating in the State.
A more detailed description of the Agricultural Credit Institutions is given
in the Appendix.
Banking Plan
4.        GOI, GOK and ARDC have agreed that the farmers should have the free-
dom to choose the financing bank. It has also been agreed that long-term credit
needs of project farmers would be met by the Cooperative and Commercial Bank-
ing systems, i.e. PLMB and CB. PLMB would obtain necessary funds from the Kerala
Cooperative Central Land Mortage Bank (KCLMB) which would utilize its own funds
initially. Both KCLMB and CB lending would be refinanced by ARDC. CB would
provide necessary short-term credit support to project participants out of
their own resources. For participants financed by the PLMB, short-term credit
requirements would be met by the Primary Credit Societies (PCS) which would
receive support from the District Central Cooperative Bank (DCCB). The DCCB
could take into account the extra funds required for short-term agricultural
finance for project activities and obtain sanction from Kerala State Cooper-
ative Bank (SCB) and RBI for enhanced credit limits.
5.        Since there is a large number of CB, it was considered desirable to
limit the number of participating banks to avoid unnecessary duplication of
efforts.  Thus, in each District the Lead Bank and two or three other CB would
be selected to participate. Among the CB selected for a District the bank
whose branch operates nearest to a package unit would be the obvious choice



ANNEX 12
Page 3
for that unit. 'Thus in each package unit, long-term financing would be done
by one CB selected for the purpose and the PLMB operating in the area. In the
case of farmers financed by PLMB, - "one-window" approach, for both long-term
and short-term requirements, would be e-rouraged.  The PCS would provide the
short-term credit requirements fro}, iL oin resources and also function as
an agent of the PLMB for disbursement and recovery of long-term loans. The
PCS would receive applications from farmers for long-term credit and after
preliminary scrutiny pass them on to the PLMB for final appraisal and approval
of the loan. In the case of CB, the same branch bank would handle both short-
term and long-term credit. The selection of CB for each project area would
be done by ARDC. The Project Banking Plan would be drawn up by ARDC in con-
sultation with GOK and the participating banks.
6.        The bench-mark survey conducted in the project areas by GOK in
March 1976 shows that the largest number of holdings were less than 1 ha.
For the coconut rehabilitation scheme, 35% have been considered as holdings
below 0.5 ha and 42% as holdings from 0.5 ha to 1.0 ha. Thus, 77% of the
holdings are below 1 ha. For all IBRD/IDA lendings under agricultural pro-
jects in India, concessions regarding down-payment and repayment period have
been extended by ARDC to small farmers - defined as those having pre-develop-
ment net income not exceeding Rs 2,000 (adjusted to 1972 prices). The pro-
bability is that the majority of the cultivators participating in this project
would fall within the definition of small farmers.
Refinance and Terms
7.        The KCLMB would, on behalf of PLMB, submit to ARDC for approval
specific schemes under the coconut new planting, coconut rehabilitation and
pepper rehabilitation sub-projects. The PLMB would insist on down payment at
5%, 10% or 15% as the case may be from small, medium and other farmers based
on the definition adopted for the ARDC Credit Projects financed by IDA and
now applied uniformly for all ARDC refinancing. ARDC refinance would cover
90% for irrigated development and 75% of the amounts loaned for other pur-
poses. The balance 10% to 25% would be contributed by GOK as its share of the
Special Debentures. The interest rate for ARDC refinance would be not less
than 7-1/2% for irrigation and land development and 8% for other purposes.
The interest charged to the ultimate borrower by the lending bank would be not
less than 10-1/2% and 11% respectively. The KCLMB and PLMB would share the
margin of 3% on an agreed basis.
8.        The CB would submit their schemes directly to ARDC.  Down payment
requirements, the period for repayment of refinance and the interest rates
would be in line with those applied to refinance the Cooperative stream
loans.
Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB)
9.        In providing funds to KSEB, for electric reticulation for irrigation
pumpsets covered under the coconut rehabilitation and new planting programs,



ANNEX 12
Page 4
the procedure currently adopted by the ARDC for similar purposes in terms of
its circular of October 21, 1975 would be foliowed. Participating banks
would prepare proposals in respect of the cost of electrification to be in-
curred by the KSEB for the reticulation while drawing up each lending scheme
involving irrigation. Unit costs would be approved by ARDC when sanctioning
each scheme. Energy requirements would be identified by the lending bank
from farmers' loan applications supported by the farm investment plans which
include a pumpset. These investment plans would already have been recommended
by the project extension service staff. The lending bank would then request
KSEB to provide the electric reticulation for the scheme. The bank's field
officers would themselves inspect the sites to confirm that the reticulation
had been completed before making the loan available to KSEB. Funds made avail-
able to KSEB would carry the same rate of interest as is applicable to the
loans sanctioned by the financing bank to the relevant farmers. The period
of loans would not exceed 7 years and the amount would be repayable in equal
annual installments. GOK would provide guarantee to the lending banks secur-
ing the capital repayment and payment of interest by KSEB. The rate of inte-
rest on refinance would be settled by ARDC at the time of disbursement of
refinance. The lending banks would, however, be allowed a fixed margin of 3%.
The current rate on refinance is 7-1/2% and the KSEB will receive funds from
the lending banks at not less than 10-1/2%. Refinance would cover up to 80%
of the loans made to KSEB by the lending banks.
Cashew Development
10.       The cashew development would be undertaken by the Kerala State
Plantation Corporation (KSPC). KSPC obtains loans from the member banks (CB)
of the Agricultural Finance Corporation, a company set up by the nationalized
Commercial Banks in India. KSPC has not so far obtained any refinance from
ARDC. KSPC would submit its investment proposals for the cashew sub-project
to a bank of its choice operating in Kerala. The lending bank in turn would
scrutinize the proposals and forward a Scheme to ARDC seeking refinance and
justifying the technical feasibility and financial viability. The lending
bank would look to KSPC to contribute about 15% of the investment cost and
grant loans for the balance. ARDC would refinance up to 80% of the amounts
lent by the lending bank. Refinance would carry interest not less than 8%
and the lending bank would charge not less than 11% to KSPC retaining a margin
of 3%.
Refinancing Processing Factories
11.       The setting up of crumb rubber processing factories would be under-
taken by Rubber Marketing Societies (CRMS) or the Kerala Rubber Marketing
Federation (KRMF). According to the agreed phasing, three factories (includ-
ing Palai) would commence production by the middle of 1979. Three more would
commence production by the end of 1980. The remaining four factories would be
commissioned only in 1982. In order to ensure adequate funds and uniform



ANNEX 12
Page 5
appraisal procedures, the financing arrangements for all the ten factories
would be handled by SCB directly. SCB has adequate resources and would be
able to acquire and develop necessary expertise for financing the factories
and supervising the loans. Proposals for each factory would however, be
sent by SCB to ARDC for appraisal and sanction. This procedure would ensure
availability of adeqtuate technical and financial expertise for such appraisal.
After AR1)C sanction. the financing of the factory construction would be done
by the SCB which would provide up to 85% of the cost, leaving 15% to be met
by CRMS or KRMF. Refinance would be provided by ARDC up to 80% of loans made
by SCB, the balance being met out of resources of SCB. The interest rate on
refinance would be determined by ARDC at the time of disbursement and would be
not less than 8%. The SCB would have a margin of 3% and charge to CRMS and
KBMF interest at not less than 11%.  The loan repayment period would be
determined separately In each case and would normally be less than 10 years.



ANNEX 12
Appendix
,age 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit Institutions
Introduction
1.        In India, institutional credit for agriculture is handled by the
Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation (ARDC) the State Cooperative Credit System and the Commercial
Banks (CB). The Cooperative Credit system consists of the long-term credit
structure, comprising the two-tier Land Mortgage Banks (LMB) structure, State
Cooperative Central Land Mortgage Banks 1/ and Primary Land Mortgage Banks
(PLMB), and the short and medium-term three-tier structure - State Coopera-
tive Banks (SCB) at the apex, Central Cooperative Banks at the District level
(DCCB) and Primary Credit Societies (PCS) at the village level dealing directly
with the farmer.
Reserve Bank of India (RBI)
2.        As the Central Banking Authority, RBI regulates money supply and
supervises the banking system covering both the Commercial and Cooperative
banks. Its Agricultural Credit Department has considerable experience in
dealing with agricultural credit matters. The interest charged by RBI for
seasonal agricultural operations is 1/2% below the Bank Rate of 9% (with a
rebate of another 1-1/2%), and medium-term loans for agricultural purposes at
1-1/2% below the Bank Rate. RBI regulates lending programs of LMB and coordi-
nates the arrangements for support from the GOI, State Governments, Life
Insurance Corporation of India and CB for the "Ordinary Debenture" programs.
As part of credit policy, RBI has regarded lending for agricultural purposes
by CB as "priority sector" advances eligible for concessions as regards
liquidity requirements.
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
3.        ARDC was established on July 1, 1963 in the context of the high
priority accorded to agricultural development in the Country's Five-year
Plans. Its specific functions are to supplement the resources of existing
institutional agencies disbursing long-term and medium-term credit; reorient
their operational policies; and provide refinance facilities to member banks
I/   Also known as State Land Banks and Land Development Banks.



ANNEX 12
Appendix
Page 2
for projects which cannot be financed by them either because of the sizeable
outlays or because such lending cannot be brought within their normal rules of
business. ARDC's board has nine members including a Deputy Governor of RBI,
who acts as Chairman, and three GOT nominees. The Managing Director is
appointed by RBI in consultation with the Board. ARDC has its head office in
Bombay and fourteen regional offices in State capitals including one in
Trivandrum.
4.        Institutions entitled to refinance facilities from ARDC include
Land Banks, Scheduled Commercial Banks and SCB, all of which are ARDC share-
holders. ARDC provides refinance only for such projects which conform to
criteria of technical feasibility and financial viability and are capable of
implementation within a compact geographical area to facilitate loan apprais-
al and close supervision. The emphasis has been on projects involving a large
number of farmers with a satisfactory coverage of small farmers. At present,
ARDC provides refinance at 7-1/2% per annum in respect of loans for minor
irrigation and land development and, at 8% for other purposes, the rates
charged to the borrowers by the lending banks being 10-1/2% and 11% respec-
tively. Period of loan repayment has regard to the repaying capacity of the
borrowers for the purpose financed which in no case exceeds the useful life of
the assets financed. In the case of minor irrigation investments, small
farmers are allowed a concessional repayment period of 15 years against 9
years allowed to other farmers. Loans for equipment including irrigation
pumpsets, however, have to be repaid within 7 years by all farmers.
5.        ARDC has considerable experience in handling credit related to
IBRD/IDA projects. As at the end of September 1976, there were 26 projects
(11 Agricultural Credit, 4 Command Area Development, 3 Dairy Development,
2 Markets, 1 Apple Processing and Marketing, 2 Seed Projects, the Integrated
Cotton Development, Drought Prone Areas Project and General Line of Credit
to ARDC) in which ARDC was actively involved. Under these projects, ARDC
had disbursed by September 1976, about Rs 3 billion against which IBRD/IDA
reimbursement totalled some Rs 2 billion. As of September 1976, ARDC had
sanctioned more than 2,800 Credit Schemes in which its own financial commit-
ments totalled Rs 11 billion. Of these, about 1,500 schemes involving Rs 8
billion (73% of total) were for minor irrigation purposes. ARDC is therefore
considered a suitable channel for providing credit to project participants
by refinancing loans granted by the Cooperative and Commercial Banks.
Cooperative Banking System
6.        Short-term loans (up to 15 months) to farmers for cultivation and
medium-term loans (15 months to 5 years) for agricultural investments within
the Cooperative stream have been organized on the 3-tier basis, consisting of
the Kerala SCB at the State level, eleven DCCB at District level, and about
1730 PCS at the village level. All PCS in a District are affiliated to the
DCCB which in turn is a member of the SCB. All the institutions in the three-
tier structure raise resources through deposits supplemented by borrowings
from the institution higher in the three-tier family. SCB has recourse to



ANNEX 12
Appendix
Page 3
RBI for resources. SCB was established in 1915, and its membership consists
of the eleven DCCB and GOK which has also contributed its equity. In 1972
SCB was granted a license under the Banking Regulation Act. It is managed
by a board of fourteen directors including eleven representatives, one each
from DCCB, and three appointed by GOK including the Kerala Secretary of Agri-
culture and Registrar of Cooperative Societies.
7.        SCB operates within short-term credit limits sanctioned annually
by RBI. Such limits are based on DCCB's financial soundness, lending pro-
grams presented by them, their ability to raise internal resources (encourag-
ing them to be less dependent on outside help in due course) and their ability
to provide adequate non-overdue loans as collateral for RBI finance. These
borrowings are supplemented by SCB's own resources in order to increase the
quantum of credit provided to DCCB. Medium-term loans taken by SCB from RBI
have been small. Although Rs 7.6 M was sanctioned during 1975-76, actual
withdrawals were only Rs 4.3 M.
8.        The eleven DCCB in Kerala have been improving their deposit
resources and loans business in recent years. They have 115 branches in the
State through which they have been able to tap deposits from the people and
provide funds to PCS more easily. The operations of DCCB are closely inter-
linked with those of the affiliated PCS which deal directly with farmers at
field level. Due to reorganization of PCS, aimed to retain only the viable
ones, the number was reduced from 2,049 Societies in June 30, 1973 to 1,731 by
June 1975. They operate in all the 1,635 villages in the State and cover 70%
of the rural population. Their membership is more than two million of whom
about half were borrowing members. Their paid-up capital and reserves amount
to about Rs 200 M. A remarkable feature is their success in mobilizing
deposits locally which increased from above Rs 127 M on June 30, 1973 to Rs
210 M by June 30, 1975. They accept various types of deposits and some of
them run "Chit" funds to encourage thrift. Yet they have to depend largely on
the DCCB and such borrowings were more than the deposits viz. Rs 411 million
at the end of June 1975. By and large, PCS in Kerala have been faring much
better than Societies in other States as would be evident from the data
below:
June 30, 1973              June 30, 1974
Particulars                       Kerala     All India       Kerala      All India
Membership per Society              924          217           1,098          227
Share capital per Society (Rs) 62,811         16,010         77,112       17,623
Deposits per Society (Rs)        62,030        5,451         94,964        5,804
Loans issued per Society (Rs) 199,658         50,177        249,245       49,520
Loans issued per borrowing
member (Rs)                       449          595            470          584



ANNEX 12
Appendix
Page 4
The figures as on June 1975 for all India are yet to be published. Figures
relating to Kerala as on that date are given below:
Membership per society                        1,221
Share capital per society (Rs)               81,918
Deposits per society (Rs)                   120,855
Loans issued per society (Rs)               286,549
Loans issued per borrowing member (Re)   not available
9.        The Kerala KCLMB provides long-term credit in the State and
operates through PLMB which loan funds directly to the farmers in all the
eleven Districts. For operational convenience KCLMB has opened three regional
offices at Cannanore, Ernakulam and Trivandrum which have powers to sanction
and disburse loans when these exceed the limits allowed to PLMB. KCLMB's
equity capital of Rs 10.27 M at December 31, 1975 was contributed by the
thirty PLMB (Rs 6.19 M) and GOK (Rs 4.08 M). Although GOK enjoys only one
vote as any other member, it has nominated the Director of Agriculture and
the Secretary of Agriculture as directors on the board in addition to the
Registrar of Cooperative Societies (Ex-officio). KCLMB is allowed to accept
1 year and 2 year deposits from institutions and non-borrowers. The amount
collected is, however, very small as no banking facilities are provided.
For its day-to-day needs KCLMB depends on interim accommodation from the SCB
and CB which is paid back when Ordinary Debentures are floated. These KCLMB
debentures which are redeemable between 10 and 15 years are guaranteed by
GOK and are purchased by GOI, GOK, Life Insurance Corporation, CB and the
KCLMB in other States. For long-term requirements, KCLMB floats Special
Debentures supported by ARDC. These debentures, also guaranteed by GOK,
are issued at 7-1/2% to 8% and contributed by GOK and ARDC in the ratio
of 90:10 for minor irrigation purposes and 75:25 for other purposes. The
redemption period is generally 7 to 15 years.
10.       The accent on long-term lending is to ensure that credit is used
for easily identifiable productive purposes such as sinking of new wells,
purchase of pumpsets, electric motors, tractors and other agricultural equip-
ment. In the Schemes sanctioned by ARDC, purposes are already identified when
the sanctions are accorded and the size of credit and terms are settled. Loan
periods vary from 7 years to 15 years depending on the purpose of the loan.
Generally, loans for pumpsets, tractors and other farm machinery are for a
period of 7 years. Out of a total of 6,347 loans in 1974/75, 1,812 loans were
sanctioned under the normal program for amounts ranging from Rs 1,000 to Rs
2,000 and 3,318 for amounts between Rs 2,000 and Rs 5,000. KCLMB has been
working at profit and the net profit for 1974-75 was Rs 1.28 M.
11.       Although there are now thirty PLMB in Kerala, they are not evenly
distributed regionally. Palghat District has only one bank and three other
Districts have two banks each. Cannanore District has the highest number
with five PLMB and three branches. Some of the older PLMB have built up
good business and many of them have current loans exceeding Rs 10 M. Seven
are relatively new but have been approved by the RBI as already viable or



ANNEX 12
Appendix
Page 5
potentially viable. GOK would contribute share capital to these and also
ensure that competent and trained staff are posted. GOK has no plans at
present for organizing more PLMB. All but eight of PLMB are working at a
profit. In December 1975, PLMB had a membership of 115,000 of which 71,000
were borrowing members. Equity capital is contributed by members at 5%
of the amount of loans taken and such contributions totalled Rs 12.9 M.
PLMB, are, therefore, overwhelmingly dependent on borrowings from KCLMB
since they are not allowed to float debentures, collect deposits, or to
undertake commercial banking; they are not banks in the real sense of the
term, functioning essentially as cooperative societies.
12.       All loans to farmers are issued against registered mortgages of land
and up to 50% of their value, based on current sales of land in the area. In
the ARDC schemes, the value of the land at full development (presumptive
value) is taken into account and this improves considerably the eligibility
for a loan. Where the real estate security is not adequate, a charge on the
other assets owned or to be acquired is obtained. Land prices are high
ranging from Rs 10,000/- to Rs 40,000 per acre in the case of crops like
coconut, pepper and rubber. Loans are normally limited to Rs 10,000 each but
this can be much higher in special cases such as tractor loans. PLMB are
allowed to sanction loans up to Rs 7,500 (now raised to Rs 10,000) and they
have to refer loans exceeding this limit to one of the three regional offices
of KCLMB for sanction. PLMB obtain loans at 9% from KCLMB and charge the
farmer at 10-1/2% for minor irrigation loans and 11% for other purposes.
Repayment is annual and loans do not generally exceed a period of 15 years.
In coconut and other horticultural and plantation schemes, grace periods are
allowed. Disbursement of loans is normally made by PLMB after funds are
obtained from the KCLMB.
13.       There has been a noticeable improvement in recoveries of loans
by PLMB as a result of the policy announced by RBI for regulating the lending
programs of LMB both in regard to the ordinary loans as well as loans under
special schemes refinanced by ARDC. This policy follows the agreements
reached between GOI and IDA in March 1975, when a General Line of Credit
Project to the ARDC (504 IN) was negotiated. Instructions were issued by the
RBI in July 1975, spelling out the details of this regulation in terms of
which the eligibility of any LMB to participate in a lending program will
depend on its recovery performance based on the June-end position in the
previous year. These institutions will be free to lend without any restric-
tions if the overdues are less than 25% of the demand. When the overdues
exceed this limit, their lendings will be restricted to a percentage of what
they advanced in the previous year and this will progressively come down with
the increase in overdues as follows:



ANNEX 12
Appendix
Page 6
Range of overdues at the primary         Eligibility of program as
branch level as on June 30 as            percentage of loans issued
percentage to demand for the year.       during the previous year.
0 - 25                              Unrestricted
26 - 35                                    80
36 - 45                                    70
46 - 55                                   60
56 - 60                                   50
61 - 100                                 Nil
PLMB will not be allowed to lend any amount if their overdues exceed 60% of
demand.  However, if the State Government is willing to contribute to share
capital of these institutions and thereby increase their liquidity position,
such redeemable equity can be taken into account to reduce notionally the
level of overdues but the benefit of such contribution will be limited to
10% of the demand, even if the actual contribution is more. By this arrange-
ment, the banks will be eligible for a slightly larger program as they can
move into the next higher range.  PLMB whose overdues exceed 60% of the de-
mand can be financed by the KCLMB out of its own resources but mortgages
created by such lendings will be kept separate from the ordinary or special
programs. As a result of these policy instructions, the effects of which are
being felt all over the country, the LMB in Kerala are gearing themselves to
effect a recovery at 75% of demand to enable them to lend without any restric-
tions. At the end of June 1975 only eight of the thirty PLMB in Kerala had
overdues exceeding 25%. KCLMB is hopeful that it will be possible to bring
down the overdue level below 25% in all but one of these cases. PLMB and
KCLMB on their part have organized recovery drives and are even publishing
names of defaulters in local newspapers to induce them to make repayments.
14.       KCLMB has a board of 15 directors, of whom 11 are elected repre-
sentatives of PLMB and 4 are GOK officials including the Registrar of Coop-
erative Societies who is also trustee for the debenture holders. GOK officers
include the Secretary of Agriculture and the Director of Agriculture. The Man-
aging Director is the chief executive and, according to the by-laws, has to be
an officer from the Indian Administrative Service or RBI. The thirty PLMB
are distributed among the 3 regional offices for purposes of sanction of
loans and general coordination. The Cannanore regional office is in charge
of ten PLMB while the Ernakulam regional office has eleven banks under its
charge. The remaining nine are with the Trivandrum regional office. The main
duties of the regional offices are to sanction loans for amounts exceeding
the powers given to the PLMB and to disburse funds (including those sanc-
tioned by them) and participate in recovery work. The work in the regional
office includes scrutiny of loan applications, checking of mortgage bonds
and post scrutiny of loan files in respect of sanctions made by PLMB.
15.       At KCLMB level, out of 95 officers, 9 are senior level executives,
45 middle level officers and 41 junior level officers. Practically all the



ANNEX 12
Appendix
Page 7
senior level and middle level officers are graduates and have undergone train-
ing either in the regular Land Mortgage Bank course in the training centers
of the Committee for Cooperative Training or in the agricultural project
course run in the College of Agricultural Banking, Poona. All newly re-
cruited agricultural officers are given an orientation course by faculty
members of the College. KCLMB has now set up its own training school for
the staff of all PLMB in the state and the first course commenced in August
1976.
Integration of Short-term and Long-term Credit Structures
16.       In pursuance of one of the recommendations made in the ARDC Credit
Project (540-IN), RBI in consultation with the GOI set up a committee in
August 1975 to consider the feasibility of integration of the short-term and
long-term credit structures, since farmers are unable to obtain seasonal and
long-term credit from the same organization. A study made in Kerala has shown
that the problem is rather acute as the long-term structure is much less devel-
oped and investment credit is not therefore readily available. The study
covering two Districts has revealed that the percentage of borrowers availing
of long-term loans in relation to those obtaining short-term loans was as
low as 3% in one District and 7% in the other. This was attributed to lack
of promotional efforts on the part of PLMB and in many cases farmers were
reported to be not even aware of the facilities available for obtaining
investment credit. GOK as well as the Cooperative Banks and LMB in Kerala
are reported to be in favour of integrating the two cooperative credit
structures. They have agreed to bring about a linkage at the village level
to enable the farmer to obtain both production credit and investment credit
from a single contact point, i.e. "one window" approach. PCS will become
village units of the PLMB and receive applications for long-term loans from
farmers. They will make a preliminary scrutiny of the applications and title
deeds and obtain the necessary information from village records. The PLMB
will, thereafter, undertake technical and financial appraisal, value the
property, examine the legal title and sanction the loan. The PLMB will
authorize the PCS to disburse the loan and also effect annually recoveries of
loan installmen'ts. These proposals have yet to be introduced at the field
level.        I
Commercial Banks (CB)
17.       In India there are 86 CB.  The 22 public sector banks including
State Bank of India, its 7 subsidiaries and the 14 nationalized banks handle
the major share of commercial banking in the country. The other 64 CB consist
of foreign bank branches, and smaller commercial banks. They are all subject
to statutory regulation by RBI, and have access to refinance facilities from
RBI, ARDC and Industrial Development Bank of India. CB are comparatively
new to the field of agricultural financing; the real impetus has been after
the introduction of control of banks in 1968 and the nationalization of 14
major banks thereafter. CB were expected to provide funds in an increasing
measure to certain priority sectors which included agriculture. The branch
expansion of CB reflect their new role, the emphasis being on opening of



ANNEX 12
Appendix
Page 8
offices in under-banked or unbanked rural areas (population between 10,000 and
100,000). At the end of June 1976, 14,074 or 66% of the 21,220 offices of
CB were in rural and semi-urban areas. CB provide funds directly for agricul-
ture by way of short-term crop loans and medium term investment credit for
minor irrigation, plantations, dairy, poultry, etc. They also provide funds
indirectly by financing distribution of fertilizers and other inputs, loans
to Electricity Boards, financing farmers through Cooperative Societies etc.
By the end of December 1975, amounts outstanding for agricultural purposes
totalled some Rs 10.2 billion as against Rs 1.9 billion in June 1969. Ninety
percent of the loans were given out by public sector banks. Southern India,
which includes Kerala, claimed 37% of the total advances. Direct advances
as of June 30, 1975 amounted to Rs 5.6 billion and of these 56% was for
medium and long-term loans.
18.       Under the Lead Bank Scheme, each of the CB in the public sector
and a few in the private sector were assigned certain Districts in various
States to survey the potential and draw up development plans. The surveys
have been completed and formulation of credit plans has been undertaken in
some cases. As CB are all-India institutions, their operations in Kerala
State will, by and large, reflect the general trend except for certain
special features peculiar to the State. The State Bank of India and its
subsidiary, the State Bank of Travancore, as well as most of the nationalized
banks have their offices in Kerala besides 14 non-nationalized banks. The
number of offices in Kerala increased from 548 in June 1969 to 1,473 in
June 1976. As many as 177 offices were opened in 1975-76 of which 71 were
in unbanked areas. The population covered per bank office decreased from
19,000 in June 1974 to 14,000 in June 1976. The State Bank of Travancore
holds a predominant position and has the largest number of branches.
19.       The position of recoveries of loans by CB in Kerala has been
improving as may be seen from the figures below:
(Rs million)
Period         Demand    Recovery %    % of (2)   Overdues           Balance
and (1)                  Outstanding
1          2             3           4               5
End June 1973   61.97       44.19           70.2      18.76          170.23
June 1974  115.58       85.23          73.7       30.35          205.86
June 1975  147.78      109.71          74.2       38.07          322.55
CB, particularly Lead Banks in certain Districts, are evincing considerable
enthusiasm for lending for agriculture. The Syndicate Bank which is the
Lead Bank for Cannanore has 33 branches in that District, of which 31 are in
rural and semi-urban areas. Of the total loans of the bank outstanding at
Rs 190 M as on March 31, 1976, Rs 32 M has been by way of agricultural finance.
In the Cannanore District alone, 21,000 parties had been given loans for an



ANNEX 12
Appendix
Page 9
amount of Rs 16.9 M.  <-e_very at 90% is considered quite s,,t.-sfactory.
Another Lead Bank, Urion Bank of India, has reported an equally satisfactory
position. It has 68 branches in the State of which 58 are rural or semi-
urban. Of the total advances of Rs 234 M at the end of December 1975,
Rs 37.3 M or 16% had been utilized for financing agriculture.
Loan Procedures
20.       CB also fix scales of finance like PCS while Oranting short-term
loans for agriculture for which a margin of 10% to 25% is maintained. The
same margin is prescribed for medium-term loans also. Rates of interest
vary from 12-1/2% to 15% and are generally higher than those charged by
Cooperatives. The Union Bank was charging a lower rate of 10% on loans
to farmers with holdings less than 3 ha. CB Branch Managers are given powers
for sanction of loans for amounts varying from Rs 500 to Rs 10,000 depending
on various considerations including the size of the branch. Crop loans do not
require a mortgage, and loans for pumpsets and other agricultural equipment
loans are made against hypothecation of the relevant assets. For agricultural
financing, CB have a number of field officers. Union Bank had 24 such officers,
all of whom were agricultural graduates. The Syndicate Bank has farm represen-
tatives who are agricultural graduates, one for every 10 to 15 branches.
Apart from the comparatively higher qualified and better paid staff employed
by CB, there is now a general air of confidence in these banks in handling
agricultural financing which was not in evidence up to three years ago.



ANNEX 12
Table 1
INDIA
KERAFLA AGRICULTIT',Al DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Lending to Project Participants- l
Maximum         Loan        Grace
Participants                          Loan      f2/    Period      Period-
Rs             Yrs         Yrs
Coconut Farmers-
New Planting Without Irrigation      3,800            12           7
New Planting With Irrigation        14,500            13           6
Rehabilitation Without
Irrigation                         1,600            12           5
Rehabilitation With Irrigation
and Cocoa                         19,800            15           6
Rehabilitation With Irrigation
and Dairy                         22,500            13           3
5/
Pepper Farmers-                      9,300            11           4
1/ Loans would be up to 85%/95% of total investment depending on whether
the borrower is classified as "small farmer". Interest charged would
be 11% pa in all cases.
2/ Covers investment excluding family labor plus loss of income.
3/ Period during which interest is capitalized.
4/ Holding of 0.5 ha for unirrigated and 1 ha for irrigated development.
i/ Holding of 1 ha.
October 14, 1976



ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marketing
Existing Marketing Channels
1.        Agricultural marketing assumes special importance in Kerala since a
high portion of agricultural production is sold. Marketing channels for most
of the project commodities are already well established in Kerala. The
traditional marketing channels are the village fairs, village merchants,
processors, brokers, agents, exporters and industry. A newer development is
the entry of Cooperative Societies, State-sponsored Cooperative Federations,
and government Corporations and Boards into the marketing of agricultural
products.
2.        There are more than 2,000 markets in Kerala holding daily, biweekly
and weekly fairs for disposal of agricultural produce. However, the major por-
tion of the State's production is sold in the villages themselves as will be
evident from the following Table:
Percentage of Quantities Marketed
Through
Crops                 In Markets   In Villages   Cooperatives
Coconut                 17.6           81.1            1.4
Tapioca                 50.4           49.6             -
Arecanut                42.2           56.1            1.7
Pepper                  60.1           34.7            5.2
Ginger                   9.5           90.5             -
Cashew Nut              34.8           65.2             -
Source: Kerala Department of Agriculture
There are about 100 Primary Marketing Societies in Kerala. These Societies
are all members of the apex marketing federations, the Kerala State Cooperative
Marketing Federation and the Kerala State Rubber Marketing Federation. Al-
though the share of trade handled by the Cooperatives has been minimal in the
past, these institutions are expected to play a major role in the future with
the encouragement given to them by GOK and the Cooperative credit institutions.
Other government sponsored institutions that would participate in the market-
ing of project produce are:



ANNEX 13
Page 2
Kerala State Coconut Development Corporation;
Kerala State Plantations Corporation;
Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation;
State Trading Corporation of India;
Cashew Export Promotion Council; and
Spices Export Promotion Council.
Markets Prospects and Prices
3.        Coconut.  With an annual production of 6 billion nuts, India ranks
third among the major producers following Philippines and Indonesia. Unlike
these countries, India is not an exporter and the problem is one of satisfying
the growing domestic demand. India is a net importer of oils and fats and
coconut oil is the third most important edible oil consumed in the country.
Due to import restrictions, India's consumption of coconut (fresh nuts and its
derivates) is marginally above its production. It is estimated that 50%
3 billion nuts) is consumed as raw nuts and the balance converted into copra,
20% of which goes for edible purposes leaving only the remaining part for
milling.
4.        The incremental output from the project at full development in
year 15 is forecast to be 205 million nuts (18,000 tons coconut oil equiv-
alent), representing an increase of 5% over Kerala's current annual production,
and 3.5% over the national production. No difficulty is expected in absorbing
this quantity. Coconut marketing would be handled by existing channels, which
are satisfactory.
5.        The price of nuts is generally determined by the wholesale price
of coconut oil. Coconut oil prices are subject to fluctuations caused by
the overall availability of fats and oils in the country. Domestic prices
for copra and coconut oil have always been higher than those prevailing on
international markets, because of import restrictions. A comparison of world
prices for coconut oil with Kerala prices is given below for the five last
years:
Coconut Oil
Years                 1970/73       1974        1975
World Price
US$/quintal             63.7        121.7        41.9
Exchange Rate
Rs = US$1.00             (7.70)      (7.80)      (8.20)
Rs/quintal              490          949         343
Kerala Price (whole-
sale Cochin Rs/
quintal)              660         1150         830



ANNEX 13
Page 3
Past prices of coconut and its products are given in Table 4. Numerous
studies of coconut prices carried out by GOK and the Directorate of Coconut
Development have concluded that, based on the projected fats and oil situation
in the country, the price of coconut oil would not drop below Rs 800 per
quintal. On this basis the projected farmgate price of coconut has been
taken at Rs 700 per 1,000 nuts. Future world prices of nuts are given
in para 1 of Appendix.
6.        Pepper.  Three-fourth of world pepper supplies originate in three
Asian countries - India, Malaysia and Indonesia. India is the largest pro-
ducer with 25 to 30% of the world market. Annual production in India averaged
37,000 tons over the period 1972-74, some 70% of which is exported. The USSR
and several other centrally planned countries, the US and Canada are the
largest customers. The market outlook for Indian pepper is considered favor-
able because of increased exports to the East European countries and prospects
of larger purchases by US and also because of a potentially growing domestic
demand. Internal demand, estimated to be 10,000 to 12,000 tons annually, is
restricted by the relatively high prices. Per capita consumption is low at
20 grams per year as compared to about 100 grams in the US and 50 grams in
the USSR.
7.        No study is available that would give the longer term outlook for
the pepper economy. It is known to depend largely on production developments
in Indonesia where disease of the pepper vine has seriously affected the crop.
Some rehabilitation work has taken place but there is no sign of a major
expansion program. Malaysia has centralized its pepper trade but has no
plans to increase production. Brazil has become the fourth largest producer
exporting some 15,000 tons but it is not expected to make a major expan-
sion in exports. Despite some area increase in India, pepper production has
remained stable as a result of decreasing yields. This project in Kerala,
which accounts for 95% of Indian export, would be India's only large expan-
sion program. By 1990 the world pepper demand will be around 160,000 tons if
the average growth rate of 3% over the period 1965-1975 is maintained, a total
increase of around 55,000 tons over the 1975 level. The pepper output due to
the rehabilitation work undertaken in this project would yield a maximum of
6,000 tons at full development by 1990, an estimated 3% of world production
at that time. Domestic demand increase would be 4,000 tons in 1990 under the
assumption that the already low per capita consumption is just maintained.
8.        The pepper market in the sixties was characterized by frequent price
fluctuations. After initial drops, prices began to recover from 1964-65 on-
wards. Since then Cochin prices for garbled pepper have averaged Rs 10,000/
ton in 1976 constant terms although prices have been above Rs 12,000 since
1974. In 1976, New York CIF price for Indian pepper was US$0.81/lb in January
and US$1.00 in August, equivalent to Cochin prices of about Rs 16,000 and
20,000/ton. Recent prices have been abnormally high. For the purpose of
financial calculations a farmgate price of Rs 10,000/ton was used (equivalent
to a Cochin quotation of Rs 12,000).



ANNEX 13
Page 4
9.        Cashew.  India is recognized as the world's leading producer of high
quality whole cashew kernels for use as dessert nuts. Exports, which reached
65,000 tons in 1972-73 have been decreasing due to a sharp decline in the avail-
ability of imported raw nuts. India's cashew processing industry, heavily
labor intensive, is now running much below capacity. Until 1974/75 India
received excellent prices in the US for high quality kernels, while selling
the bulk of standard grade nuts to USSR and Eastern Europe. World production
is likely to lag behind demand and prices can therefore be expected to increase.
Prices of kernels CIF New York over the past years have been increasing from
US 60 cents/lb in 1967 to US$1.30 in January-October 1976, though with wide
fluctuations. In view of a sustained demand in the overseas market, and of
the general shortage of raw nuts, prices of indigenous raw nuts can be expect-
ed to keep rising. Current farmgate price Rs 3/kg of raw nut was used in the
farm models ignoring possible increases. Incremental project output is
marginal with 6,000 tons or 4% of the country's production.
10.       Cocoa.  When in full bearing, the annual crop from the present area
is expected to be 4,500 tons of dry beans. Production from the project
plantations would add another 2,000 tons at full development. A study con-
ducted by the National Commission on Agriculture estimated the country's
requirement at 46,000 tons. Incremental production would therefore help
toward meeting a fraction of the constrained domestic demand.
11.       While a certain amount of fermentation is carried out by producers
in their own plantings, in the interest of quality the larger manufacturers
offer to purchase wet beans at 40% of the dry price for central processing.
This arrangement is considered satisfactory under present conditions but
there is no reason why smallholders would not carry out this simple process
themselves provided, however, sufficient wet beans were available to ensure
an adequate fermentation; 1 ha of cocoa would be the minimum area required.
According to Bank forecasts, cocoa prices (CIF New York) are expected to
decline from the present US$0.80/lb to US$0.61 in 1980 and US$0.51 in 1985.
After making necessary adjustments for shipping and handling costs, cocoa
prices CIF Bombay would be Rs 12,000/ton in 1980, corresponding to farmgate
price of about Rs 10,000/ton. 1980 price forecast was used because local
prices are bound to be higher than international prices on account of import
restrictions.
12.       Intercrops.  All intercrops except perhaps ginger would be consumed
in the State itself (Annex 1, paras 18 through 21). Ginger, however, would
be partly exported. The incremental production of dry ginger from the project
is expected to be a maximum of 3,300 tons by 1986. This output would repre-
sent an increase of 6% on India's 1974-75 production. However, the ginger
crop is an alternative to tapioca and vegetables and the intercrop mix would
be altered by the farmer depending on product demand and relative profitabil-
ity of the different crops. Calicut and Cochin varieties which have a pre-
ference in the world market, would be grown in the project area. In addition
to ginger minor quantities of oleoresin of ginger oil are exported from India.
Importing countries are Saudi Arabia, USA and Morocco for dry ginger, Japan
for oleoresin, and France, Japan and Sri Lanka for ginger oil.



ANNEX 13
Page 5
13.       Milk.  Annual incremental production anticipated from the project
areas is 15,000 tons compared with the Kerala's current production estimated
at 440,000 tons. The per capita daily milk availability in the State is about
52 grams compared with 210 grams recommended by WHO as minimum requirement.
At present there are six pasteurization plants and twelve milk chilling centers
operating in Kerala. In each of the project area Districts there are more
than fifty organized Primary Milk Supply Unions. In 1975, the existing dairy
plants handled about 11,000 tons, utilizing only 50% of the installed capa-
city. The major constraint is supply of milk to the plants.
14.       Fifth Five Year Plan provision for dairy development in the State
is Rs 30 M over the next five years. In addition, other special programs are
being planned by GOK. Another special program is "Operation Flood". Operation
flood aims at the improvement of milk marketing in the country through speeding
up dairy development by increasing milk procurement and production in rural
areas through farmers' organizations. Operation Flood Phase II commenced
in 1976/77 and about Rs 46 M has been alloted to Kerala for utilization in
the Quilon and Cannanore SFDA districts.
15.       A detailed survey of Trivandrum, and two other Districts outside the
project area is being carried out by the National Dairy Development Board
to assess organization structure for milk marketing and dairy development.
The Board also has started, in the three project area Districts in the north,
a survey of the availability of milk and development of milk production. On
completion of these surveys by end of 1976, a detailed scheme for the creation
of necessary infrastructure and processing facilities for marketing of milk
produced in all four Districts would be finalized by the newly created Live-
stock Development and Milk Marketing Board. The resultant investment program
is expected to be completed before any milk production from proposed project
becomes available from the project for marketing.
16.       The Livestock Development and Milk Marketing Board started
functioning in 1975. It took over all dairy plants and chilling centers
which belonged to the Government. Among other functions (see Annex 1,
para 30), it assists Primary Cooperative Societies in milk marketing.
These Societies bring the milk to a collection center from where milk is
transported in Board's vehicles to the pasteurization plants or chilling
centers. The Board fixes the price it pays for milk, taking into account
farmers' production costs. In natural grassland areas like Iddiki Districts
the price paid to the farmer is as low as Rs 1.40/liter which help cover
higher transport costs. In the other areas closer to the plants, the far-
mer receives Rs 1.60 and the Primary Society Rs 1.75. Farm gate prices
used in financial projection is Rs 1.60/liter. In order to encourage
production of quality milk, the Board proposes to introduce a change in
price policy for which a pre-requisite is the supply of milk testing equip-
ment at the collection centers. Initially, three to four hundred Primary
Societies in Trivandrum District will be equipped for such testing. For
these quality control activities, the Board has received Rs 1 M from the
Swiss Government. Swiss Government funds are also provided for milk procure-
ment, processing and marketing (Rs 3.7 M) and for meat marketing (Rs 2 M).



ANNEX 13
Page 6
17.       Rubber.  Although India's natural rubber production has increased
more than three-fold during the last ten years, its current production of
130,000 tons is yet less than 5% of total world production. India is a
net importer of rubber. It has, however, not imported natural rubber since
1970. 1/ Small quantities were exported in 1973/74 (1,450 tons) and in
1975/76 (3,500 tons) to ease local price fluctuations caused by temporary
surplus. The long-term picture is that the country's demand for natural
rubber would be far in excess of domestic supply as would be evident from
the Indian Rubber Board projections given below:
Projected Demand
1975    1980    1985    1990
('000 tons)
High                   161      260     415      670
Most likely            161      240     360      545
Low                    161      225     315      440
Projected Supply
1980     1985    1990
('000 tons)
Natural Rubber             174      205      250
Synthetic Rubber           50        80      100
Total              224       285     350
18.       Export of manufactured rubber goods (mostly tires and tubes), cur-
rently Rs 60 M, is targetted to double during the Fifth Five Year Plan period.
Local demand for natural rubber is concentrated in thirteen large companies
which consume 70% of the country's production. The supply, however, is widely
diffused because of the predominance of smallholders in the subsector. The
investments proposed under this project would not directly contribute to
any quantity increase. It would, at full capacity of the ten factories,
help to upgrade annually some 25,000 tons of rubber that would otherwise be
sold by the smallholders as lower priced grades. The crumb rubber produced by
the Cooperatives would be marketed as technically specified rubber and, as far
as practical, channelled through the Kerala State Rubber Marketing Federation.
Warehousing and transport facilities provided in the project for the Federation
would also strengthen its ability to counter the monopolistic position now
occupied by the industrial consumers and obtain better prices for the small-
holders' rubber.
19.       Crumb rubber is in high demand in the tire industry for its
cheaper price (in relation to synthetic rubber) and its standard quality.
Prices used in financial projections are those forecast by the Indian
Rubber Board which are realistic:
I/   Synthetic rubber is imported.



ANNEX 13
Page 7
Lot Sheet                             Rs 6.45 per kg
(including agent commission)
Scrap Rubber Priced on Dry            Rs 5.20 per kg
Dry Rubber Content (including
agent commission)
Crumb Rubber Sale Price               Rs 6.60 per kg
20.       Prices used in economic analysis are dicussed in the Appendix.
Prices used for financial and economic analyses are summarized in Table 1.
Project production figures are in Table 2 and yield assumptions are in
Table 3.



ANNEX 13
Appendix
Page 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Commodity Prices Used in Economic Analysis
1.        Coconut.  Consumption of coconut oil in India is artificially con-
strained by import restrictions and limitations on its use in industry. The
incremental production from the project has therefore been assumed to be for
import substitution, and oil valued in accordance with Bank price projections
(made for Indonesian coconut oil in bulk CIF Europe). CIF Bombay prices were
arrived at by making adjustments for shipping costs. Economic prices of
coconuts were derived from CIF Bombay price after necessary adjustments
for transport and processing costs made on the basis of 142 gm of copra per
nut and a milling rate of 63%.
Economic Price of Coconut
(Rs per 1,000 nuts)
1976     1977      1978      1979     1980      1985
250      280       310       350      390       450
Additional returns from the husk (Rs 35 per 1,000) and from the shell (Rs 17
per 1,000) were also assumed. Full value of husking was taken as a benefit
since labor generated is shadow priced 0.
2.        Cocoa production would also be for import substitution.  Bank's
forecast for cocoa beans (Accra, CIF New York) is US$0.61 in 1980 and US$0.51
in 1985. CIF Bombay equivalent would be Rs 12/kg in 1980 and Rs 10/ kg in
1985. After allowing for local transport and handling costs at Rs 0.50/kg,
the economic price for cocoa beans (equivalent dry) was taken at Rs 11.50/kg
and Rs 9.50/kg.
3.        Pepper.  No price forecast has been made by Bank for pepper.
The basic price used for economic and financial calculations is discussed
in para 7 of this Annex. It is based on export price of Indian pepper - FOB
Cochin of Rs 12.0/kg. After allowing for internal transport and handling
costs (Rs 0.50/kg), processing costs (Rs 0.10/kg) and using a conversion
factor garbled/ungarbled pepper of 95%, the economic price was taken at
Rs 10.90/kg.



ANNEX 13
Appendix
Page 2
4.        Cashew.  An export price from India of at least Rs 11 per lb has
been projected for cashew kernels in 1978/79 1/. Prices are expected to
remain firm in the longer term. After allowing for internal transport and
handling costs (Rs 0.50/kg), processing costs of (Rs 1.50/kg of raw nuts),
and using a conversion factor kernel/raw nuts of 25%, price of cashew raw nut
was projected at Rs 4.40/kg.
5.        Milk.  The economic price used for milk is Rs 1.60 per liter - the
price fixed by the Kerala Livestock Development and Milk Marketing Board for
milk collected in the project areas. The retail price suggested by the
Board varies between Rs 1.90 and Rs 2.00 depending on location of outlets. It
is known, however, that consumers in most places often pay Rs 2.50 per liter.
The price fixed by the Board should therefore be considered below free market
price. By using Rs 1.60 as a price for milk in the calculations an apparent
consumer surplus has been ignored.
6.        Intercrops.  Incremental production of other crops, namely tapioca,
pulses, vegetables and ginger were valued at current farmgate price since
most of these are used for local consumption.
1/   Report on Export Prospects, April 1976, India Division.



ANNEX 13
Table 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Commodity Prices
-Financial 1/                       Economic 21
Years          77 & After       77        78        79     80 to 84  85 & After
Coconut (Rs/1,000 nuts)          700          380      410       460      510        570
Pepper (Rs/ton)               10,000      12,700   12,700   12,700   12,700    12,700
Cocoa (Rs/ton dry bean)      10,000          -         -         -     13,600    11,200
Cashew (Rs/ton raw nut)        3,000       5,100    5,100    5,100    5,100        5,100
Milk (Rs/1,000 liters)         1,600       1,600    1,600    1,600    1,600        1,600
Tapioca (Rs/ton)                 300          300      300       300      300        300
Pulses (Rs/ton)                2,000       2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000        2,000
Ginger (Rs/ton wet)           1,500        1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500        1,500
Garden Crops (Rs/ton)            900         900       900       900      900        900
l/ Prices used for financial models, cash flow statements and financial rates of return.
2/ Prices used for economic rate of return calculations. Prices given in Appendix to
Annex 13 were adjusted on the basis of a shadow exchange rate of Rs 10.50 = US$1.00.
October 14, 1976



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Output
Coconuts (Million Nuts)
New          Rehabili-             Pepper           Cocoa                Milk
Years                Plantings   tation              ('000 tons)        ('000 tons)        ('000 liters)
Pre-Project               -           97 0               2.75
1977                      -           97,3              2.66
1978                      -           98.4              2.33                 -
1979                      -          101.5              1.89                 -0.76
1980                      -          107.9              1.89                 -                 4.30
1981                                 121.7              2. 75                -                10.12
1982                     0.4         140.4              4.42                0.03              14.17
1983                     2.8         168.7              6.18                0.12              15.19
1984                     8.5         186.8               7.15               0.28              15.19
1985                    16.5         200.2              7.45                0.48              15.19
1986                    25.1         212.7              7.80                0.75              15.19
1987                    30-.8        224.8              8.32                1.08              15.19
1988                    39.2         233.6              8.66                1.46              15.19
1989                   44.5          238.6              8.75                1.77              15.19
1990                   49.0          241.8              8.75                1.92              15.19
1991                    52.4         244.1              8.75                1.95              15.19
1992                    54.4         245.3              8.75                1.95              15.19
1993                    55.7         245.8              8.75                1.95              15.19
1994                    56.0         246.0              8.75                1.95              15.19
October 8, 1976                                                                                                         tm



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTUZRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Output
Tapioca   Ginger (Wet)    Pulses   Vegetables        Cashew         Crumb Rubber
Years                        Turmeric etc.                             ('000 tons)      ('000 tons)
-------------('000 totns) ----------
Pre-Project         122.5          -          1.75        10-5           0.37
1977                101.5        0.7          1.32         7.9           0.75
1978                102.2        3.9          1.34        8.2            1.14
1979                106 5       10.1          1.44        9.4            1.54               1.21
1980                11,7.7      15.7          1.63        11.7           2.12               7.22
1981                132.4       18.7          1.84        14.1           2.83              15.05
1982                142.8       20.0           1.97       15.9           3.37              22:86
1983                146.8       20.5          2.03        17.0           3.99              24.75
1984                147.8       20.6          2.05        17.5           4.52              24.75
1985                148.0       20.6          2.05        17^6           5.03              24.75
1986                148.0       20.6           2.05       17.8           5.59              24.75
1987                148,0        20.6          2.05       17.8           6.02              24.75
1988                148.0       20.6           2.05       17.8           6.27              24.75
1989                148.0       20.6           2.05       17.8           6.36              24.75
1990                148.0       20..6          2.05       17.8           6.36              24.75
1991                148.0       20.6           2.05       17.8           6.36              24.75
1992                 148.0      20.6           2.05       17.8           6.36              24.75
1993                148.0        20.6          2.05       17.8           6.36              24.75
1994                148.0        20.6          2.05       17.8           6.36              24.75
October 8, 1976



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVEILPMENT PROJECT
Yield Assumptions (Perennial Crops)
Coconuts (nutsltree)                         Pepper (kg/ha)              cocoa                      CLashew (g raw nut/ha)
YEARS              Rehabilitnted Trees              New Trees              Rehabilitated  New        k  dr  bean/ha            Rehbiliteated Trees             New Trees
Unirrigated  Irrigated    Unirrigated  Irrigated                                                        Without Project  With Project
Pre-Project           21            21             _            _              275          -              _                    165              165
1                 22            23             -            _              275          -              _                    250             330                -
2                 23            26             -            -              300          -              -                    300             500                _
3                 24            34             -            -              350         110             -                    350             500                -
4                 31            45             -            -              500         275            25                    400             900               100
5             .  36             50             -           10              650        .820           100                    450           1,125               300
6                 36            60            10           20              650         820           150                    500           1,200               600
7                 36            60            20           30              650         820           250                    500           1,300               800
8                 36            60            30           40              650         820           350                    500           1,300             1,200
9                 39            60            40           50              650       1,100           500                    500           1,300             1.500
10                 40            60            45           60              650       1.100           650                    500           1,300             1,800
11                 40            60            50        . 65               650       1.100           650                    500           1,300             2,000
12                 40            60            55           70              650       1.100           650                    500           1,300             2,000
13                 40            60            60           75              650       1,100           650                    500           1,300             2,000
14                 40            60            60          80               650       1,100           650                    500           1,300             2.000
October 13.1976



INDIA
Average Farm Prices of ImportAnt Commodities
in Kerala (Period 1966 to 1975)
Years             62-63    63-64    64-65       65-66      66-67      67-68      68-69      69-70      70-71      71-72      72-73      73-74      1975
Coconut (1,000 nuts)          248       240      268        398        370        455        393        498        571        421        528        890        880
Pepper  (Quintal)             250       262      342        360        352        321        330        560        616        541        525        795      1,060
Cashew (Quintal raw)           56        74       83         92        100        117        124        146        140        158        219        329        300
Average Farm Prices of Important Comnmodities
ia Kerala (Year 1975)
Months           Jan.      Feb.     March      April t               June       July       August    Sept.       Oct.Dec.                         Average
Coconut *t,000 nuts)          950       900      850        850        750        700        550        550        600        670        720        720         740
Pepper (Quintal)            1,000       990      980        990      1,020      1,050      1,070      1,080      1,100      1,150      1.100      1,100       1.060
Wholesale Coconut Oil       1,030       890      870        890        800        770        710        800        710        830        860        830         830
(QuintaIl)
October 14, 1976
I 



AAF,F_" 3
Table 5
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pepper - Production and Trade
11966-70                                      Chang
Average                                    1923 to 1974
Productic                                  ...... 'OO  tons .
World Total                         116.2   122.5   130.9   133.       _ U3j.        1
India                                33.8    34.0    36.5    39.0    36.0          -8
Indonesia                            26.9    24.3    30.8    28.5    29.2            2
Malaysia                             24.3    29.0    28.0    24.0    30.0          25
Others
E)tports.
World Total                            .6    89.1    22.      25.2   2.2            9
India                                21.5    16.9    20.7    26.8    25.9          -3
Indonesia                            19.5    22.9.   24.4    23.7    25.5           8
Malaysia                             23.5    28.8    27.8    24.2    30.4          26
Others
Re-Exports
World Total                             6    37.0             25.0    300          20
Singapore
Others
Imports
World Total                         117.2   127.8   130.2   120.5   130.2           8
Developed counitries               --i       27                  5& 60.02
Developed countries       ~50.8    60.8    60.0    65.2    66.4            2
Western Europe                       22.3    26.6    27.9    31.8    32.3           2
United States                        22.6    27.2    24.0    25.1    26.0           4
Others
Developing countries                50-9    53.7    52.3    40.1    46.2           15
Centrally planned countries          15.5    13.3    18.0    15.3    17.6          15
U.S.S.R.                              9.5     6.9    11.7      9.3    11.5         24
Value of Exports                    ........... USS million .
Worla Total                         55,6    82.2    78.7   108.5   A15             AZ
India                                17.8    19.0    19.3    27.9    37.2          33
Inaonesia                            12.0    24.2    20.5    29.0    39.0          34
Malaysia                             14.7    21.9    21.7    28.0    44.3
Others
Average Unit Value of Exports    ............ US cents/kg .
India                               82.8   112.4    93.2   104.1   143.6           38
Indonesia                            61.5   105.7    84.0   122.4   152.9          25
Malaysia                             63.5    77.3.   78.6   117.5   148.1          26
Prices
Cochin Black garbled (Rs/'00 kg)   438       656      543     647    1,P58         64
New York spot Black (US cents/lb)   41        50       46      57       82         44



ANNEX 14
Page 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Projections
Costs and Benefits
1.        Investment costs and operating results relating to smallholder
farm models are shown in Annex 3, Tables. Costs and results of the cashew
development by KSPC and seed garden development by SADU are shown in the
Tables in Annex 4 and 5 respectively. Crumb rubber factory costs and
results are in Tables 1 and 2 of Annex 7.
Farm Models
2.        Models for coconut development without irrigation are based on
0.5 ha holdings. The pepper model is based on 1 ha holding, and so are models
for coconut development under irrigation with fodder and cocoa intercropping
(Annex 3, Tables). Tables for irrigated development are prepared to demon-
strate that it would normally not be financially viable to invest in a new
dugwell and a 3.0 hp pumpset for holdings less than 1 ha. A farmer's invest-
ment plan including a new well would generally not be approved nor his loan
granted for holdings of less than 1 ha. Farmer investment plan including
installation of filter points or improvement of existing wells with 1.5 hp
pumpsets would be for holding not less than 0.5 ha.
Rates of Return
3.        The financial rates of return for the various types of project
development are as follows:
ROR
Coconut (Smallholders)
New Planting:
- without irrigation             49
- with irrigation                27
Rehabilitation:
- without irrigation             40
- with irrigation                 18



ANNEX 14
Page 2
ROR
Pepper (Smallholders)
Rehabilitation                     23
Cashew (KSPC)                           22
Seed Gardens (SADU)                     13
Rubber Processing (CRMS/IKRMF)          34
Cash Flow Statements
4.        The cash flow statements for each type of development based on the
models in Annexes 3, 4, 5 and 7 are given in the accompanying Tables. Major
assumptions used in the cash flow calculations are given in the Appendix. It
will be seen from these cash flow statements that the different types of
development planned under this project would be financially viable.
5.        Maximum loans required from participating farmers as well as income
after debt service would vary widely depending on the type of development
chosen:
Income After
Maximum Loan   Loan Repayment
Rs/ha            Rs/ha
Coconut New Planting:
- without irrigation         7,600             7,570
- with irrigation           14,500            10,300
Coconut Rehabilitation:
- without irrigation         6,400             5,400
- with irrigation           19,800            10,300
(cocoa as intercrop)
- with irrigation           22,500             9,300
(fodder and dairy)
Pepper Rehabilitation        9,300             5,800
The loans taken by project participants to finance these investments
could be repaid in full between eleven and fifteen years from the time of
commencing the development. Farmers would be able to improve their con-
sumption levels during the debt service period (see cash flow statements
Table 1 through 6). The financial situation of the farmer would, in
most cases, be more favorable than that reflected in the Cash Flow State-
ments. In these projections it is assumed that the farmer finances 100%



ANNEX 14
Page 3
of the investment with interest bearing loans. In practice, however, he
would borrow 95 to 85%. Thus the interest payments need not be so high;
loan repayments could be completed earlier or the improvement in consump-
tion level could be better than that apparent from the cash flow state-
ments.
6.        In the case of irrigated development, particularly coconut re-
habilitation with cocoa and fodder intercropping (see Tables 4 and 5 which
picture the least favorable situation 1/), only 10 to 25% increases in
consumption levels are allowed during the debt service period of 13 to 15
years. Even then investments in irrigated development would have special
attractions to the farmer on more than one count:
-    farmer's equity built during the 13 to 15 years period
is high between Rs 18,000 and Rs 25,000;
-    the debt service periods would be less than those reflected
in Tables 2, 4 and 5 in all cases where the farmers' hold-
ings are more than the minimum 1 ha;
-    the cost of well (Rs 8,000) and pumpset (Rs 3,550),
included in the investment would be considered by
most Kerala farmers to be well spent even without
such agricultural development because of the need
to have water for drinking, bathing and washing
purposes; and
-    many farmers would find it possible to sell water to
their neighbors for agricultural as well as domestic
uses and no account has been taken of this potential
source of income.
1/   High irrigation investment cost of Rs 11,550 per ha compared
with an overall project average of Rs 7,000 per ha. See Annex 3,
Appendix 2.



ANNEX 14
Appendix
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Notes on Financial Statements
1.        Financial year for all participating agencies would be April/March.
2.        Project years are assumed to correspond to Financial Years and year
dne taken as April 1, 1977 to March 31, 1978.
3.        Physical contingencies are included at 10% flat on base capital
costs of Rubber Processing, Cashew and Seed Garden components.
4.        Price contingencies included in computing project costs have been
excluded in rate of return calculations and in cash flow statements since
operating income has been taken at 1976 values.
5.        Prices used to evaluate incremental production are given in Annex 13,
Table 1.
6.        Daily labor rates are taken at Rs 8.00 for men and Rs 6.50 for
women - those specified in the State minimum wage legislation.
7.        Foreign exchange conversions are made at Rs 9.00 to US$1.00.
8.        Interest paid by ultimate borrowers is taken at 12% for short
term and 11% for long-term loans.
9.        Interest unpaid in any year is capitalized and the interest cal-
culations are at compound rates.
10.       Income tax has been assumed to be not applicable to any of the
participants except the Kerala State Plantation Corporation. The model farmer
would not, by and large, reach taxable income levels. Income of cooperative
institutions which distribute dividends based on purchases or sales turnover
are not taxable. KSPC's tax is estimated at 50% of taxable income.
II.       Rate of return calculations are based on 25 year stream of costs and
benefits.
12.       Base costs are taken at prices ruling at September 1976.
13.       In all cases, the full amounts of the investments costs are assumed
to be borrowed by the participants from banks as long-term loans.



INDIA
KERAIA AGRICULTURAL DEVElOPMENT PROJECT
Cash Flow for 0.5 Ha Model - Coconut New Planting (Without Irrigation)
(Rupees)
1 3 and
YEARS                          Pre.Proiect         I           2         3          4          5         6          7          8          9         la)        11         12       After
INFLOW
Coconut Income (Net)                              -                       -         -          -         (234)      375        984      1,593      1,897      2,202      2,507      2,X11
Intercropping Income (Net)          160            160        655        832       942       1,032     1.032      1.032      1.032      1.032      1.032      1.032     1.032    _,032
Suib-tatal                    160            160         655        832      942       1,032        798      1,407     2,016      2,625      2,929      3,234      3,539      3,643
Long-term loan                                     900        400        600       0OO         800       300
Long-terns Interest Capitalized                                 50       148       231         344       470        266
Short-term loan                      33            292        292        292       292         292       292        467        467        467        467        467        467       467
Total                         193          1,352       1,397      1,872    2,265       2,468      1,860      2,140     2,483      3,092      3,396      '3,701     4,006      4,310
OUTFLOW
Capital Costs                                      840         376       583       744         744
Debt Servicing:
Long term - Repayment                                                                                                        400      1,000      1,500      2,000       409
Long term - Interest                                          50       148       231         344       470        554        584        540        430        265         45
Sub-total                                                50        148      231         344        470        554        984     1,540      1,930      2,265        454
Short-term - Repayment             33            292        292        292       292         292       292        467        467        467        467        467        467        467
Short-term - interest               4             37         37         37        37          37        37         58         58         58         58         58         58         58
Sub-total                     37            329         329        329      329         329        329        525        525        525        525        525       525        525
Total                         37          1,169         755      1,060    1,304       1,417        799      1,079      1,509     2,065      2,455      2,790        979        525
NET FLOW                            156            183        642        812       961       1,051     1,061      1,061        974      1,027        941        911      3,027      3,785
Pre-Project Income Level            156            156        156        156       156         156       156        156        156        156        156        156        156        156
Annual Surplus                                      27        486        656       805         895        905       905        818        871        785        755      2,871      3.629
Cumulative Surplus                                  27        513      1,169    1,974        2,869     3,774      4,679      5,497      6,368      7,153      7,908    10,779
1j  The income and expenditure figures are drawn from Table  1, Annex 3.
8/5/76



INDIA
KERALA ACRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I/
Cash Flow for 1.0 Ha Model - Coconut New Plantings (With Irrigation)-
(Rupees)
14 and
YEARS      Pre-Prolect        1           2          3         4          5         6          7          8         9 _       10         11        12         13        After
INFLOW
Coconut Income (Net)                 -                   -         -               -         (748)      477      1,702     2,927      4,152     5,377      5,989      6,602     7,214      7,827
Intercropping Income (Net)          320            640      1,788     2,053      2.448     2,638      2,638     2,638      2.638      2,638     2,638      2.638      2,638      2,638     2.638
Sub-total                      320            640     1,788      2,053      2,448     1,890      3,115     4,340      5,565      6,790     8,015      3,627     9,240      9,852    10,465
Long-term Loan                                  13,300        200       500        500       -          -
Long-term Interest Capitalized                      -         732     1,565      1,792     1,547        547
Short-term Loan                      65            130        583       583        583       583      1,029      1,029     1.029      1.029      1.029     1.029      1.029      1.029      1,029
Total                          385         14,070     3,303      4,701     5,323      4,020      4,691     5,369      6,594      7,819     9,044      9,656    10,269    10,881    11,494
OUTFLOW
Capital Costs                                   13,603      1,039     1,453      1,775                                     2,850
Debt Servicing:
Long-tern  - Repayment                                     -         -          -         -          -          -         -        3,000      4,000     5,000      6,200      2,483        -
Long-term - Interest                                      732      1,565      1,792     2.045      2.214      2,275     2.275      2.275      1.945     1.505        955        273        -
Sub-total                                              732       1,565      1,792     2,045      2,214     2,275      2,275      5,275      5,945     6,505      7,155      2,756        -
Short-tenn - Repayment            65            130      583         583        583       583      1;029      1,029     1,029      1,029      1,029     1,029      1,029      1,029      1,029
Short-term - Interest              8             16        73         73         73         73       129        129       129        129        129        129       129        129        129
Sub-total                       73            146      656         656        656       656      1,158     1,158      1,158      1,158      1,158     1,158      1,158      1,158      1,158
Total                           73         13,749     2,427      3,674     4,223      2,701      3,372     3,433      6,283      6,433      7,103     7,663      8,313      3,914      1,158
NET FLOW                             312           321        876     1,027      1,100      1,319     1,319      1,936        311     1,386      1,941     1,99       1,956      6,967    10,336
Pre-Project Income Level             312           312        312       312        312        312       312        312       312      _ 312_       312        312       312        312        312
Annual Surplus                                       9        564        715       788      1,007     1,007      1,624       599      1 ,}JI     1,629      1,681     1,644      6,655    10,024       S -
CU UlatiVE SurDlue                                   9        573     3,.288  ~276         3.083      4.090      1 3          33       L387    9  le    1067                    18 96
t/ The income and expenditure figures are drawn from Table 2, Annex 3.
8/5/76



INDIA
KERAIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Cash Flow for 0.5 Ha Model - Coconut Rehabilitation (Without Irrigation) -
(Rupees)
13 and
YEARS                            Pre-Prolect         1           2          3          4           5          6          7          8           9         10         11          12        After
I NFLOW
Coconut Income (Net)                    919          446         500        554        931      1,200       1,169      1,239      1,309      1,541       1,630      1,665      1,700       1,735
Intercropping Income (Net)              560          560         655        832        942      1.032       1.032      1.032   _1,O3     1032      1,03j~32         1.032      1.032       1.032
Sub-total                       1,479        1,006       1,155       1,386      1,873      2,232      2,201      2;271       2,341      2,573      2,662      2,697       2,732      2,767
Long-term Loan                                       550         500        450        100         -
Long-term interest Capitalized                                    24        118        181          60
Short-term Loan                         121           75         292        292        441        441         475        475        475        475         475        475         475        475
Total                           1,600        1,631       1,971       2,246      2,595      2,733      2,676      2,746       2,816      3,048      3,137      3,172       3,207      3,242
OUTFLOW
Capital Costs                            -            75          45         66         90          90
Debt Servicing:
Long-term - Repayment                                         -          -          -          -           -          -          100        350         500        600        433         -
Long-term - Interest                                           24        118        181        211         218        218        218        207         169        114         48         -
Sub-total                                                    24        118        181        211        218         218        318        557        669         714        481 
Short-term  - Repayment             121            75         292        292        441        441         475        475        475        475        475         475        475        475
Short-term  - Interest                15            9          36         36         55         55          60         60         60         60          60         60         60          60
Sub-total                         136           84          328        328        496        496        535         535        535        535        535         535        535         535
Total                             136          159          397        512        767        797        753         753        853      1,092      1,204      1,249       1,016        535
NE,T Flow_   1,464                                 1.472       1.574       1.734      1.828      1.936      1.923      1.993       1.963      1.956      1.933      1.923       2,191      2,707
Pre-Project Income Level             1,464         1,464       1,464      1,464      1,464      1,464       1,464      1,464      1,464      1,464       1,464      1,464      1,464       1,464
Annual Surpltus                          -             8         110        270'       364        472         459        529        499        492         469        459         727      1,243
Cumulative Surplus                       _             8          118       388         752     1.224       1.683      2.212      2.711      3.203       3.672      4.131      4,858
1/   The income and expenditure figurea are drawn from Table 3, Annex 3.
8/6/76



rFRALA AGRIC LY1TRAL  9VEgUPKe1r PRO-MC-
(,ah Flc      vno  eI    e  ,a  - Co c,~~ bfitto    Wt   cfato   .Ccaltr1oe
(Rupees)
16 and
YEARS                                                 4pr ect    __ _  - .   _   6        7         a        9        10        11        12        13        14        15
INFLOW
Coconut Income (Elef-i            1,S38           591       917    1,765    2,4?8    3,467    4,149    4.832    4,972    5,112    5,1S2    5,282    5,322    5,392    5,392    5,392    5,392
Cocoa   Incoe (net)                                                            (626)     (66)      274    1,048    1,821    2,982    4,142    4,142    4,142    4,142    4,142    4,142    4,142
Carden Crops   coe (Nt) 4    _1,2                 224       358       411      49        528       528       528       528       2                  528       528       528       528       5
Sub-total                    2,958           815    1,275    2,196    2,842    3,929    4,951    6,408    7,321    8,622    9,852    9,952    9,992   10,062   20,062   10,062   10.062
Long-term Loan                                 14,600    2,650    1,900        650       -         -         -
Long-term Interest Capitalized                    -      1.606    2,074    2,511    2,259    1,167           -      1,825
Short-term Loan                     242           133      133       133       723       788    1,480    1,480    1,480    1.4                                 80               1.480    1.480    1,480
Total                                                                                8     1,8 111,51480                                                                           11,542 1lt,56280
OTFOWa                         3,0           558       564      633       676       696       758      7,888   10.626   10,102   11,332   11.432   11,472   11,542   11,542   11,542   11, 542
OUTFLOW
Capital Costs:
Irrigat{yn Faciliies                         11,550      -         -         -                                    2,850
Coconut-                                        150        90      132       180
Cocoa 3/                                        684       710      784         
Sub-total                                 12,384       800      916       180                                  2,850
Debt Servicing:
Long-term - RepI yment                                           2         2                              100 _             2,100    3,600    4,100    4,600    5,150    5,700    5,892
Long-term - lnterest         _____________             1,606    2_074    2,511    2,859    3,107_ 3,236    3,225    3, 125           394       2.9 2j4j_2                       75       648
Sub-total                                           1,606    2,074    2,511    2,859    3.107    3,336    3,225    5,525    6,794    6,899    6,947    6,992    6,975    7,050
Short-term - Repayment            242           133       133      133       723       788    1,121    1,121    1,121    1,121    1,121    1,121    1,121    1,121    1,121    1,121    1,121
Short-term - Intereat              30            17        17        17       90        98       140      140       140       140       140       140       140       140       140      140       140
Sub-total                      272           150        50      150       813       886    1,261 1,261    1, 1,261    1,261    1261    1,261    1,261    1,261    1,261.261
Total                          272        12,534    2,556    3,140    3,504    3,745    4,368    4,59          7,336    6.786    8,055    81          82        82        8,236    8,311    1,261
NEl FLOW                          2.928         3,014    3,108    3.163    3.222    3.231    3,230    3,291    3,290    3,316    3.277    3.272   1364    3.289    3,306    3.231   10281
Pre-Project Income Level          2,928         2,928    2,928    2,928    2,928    2,928    2,928    2,928    2,928    2,928    2,928    2,928    2,928    2,928               2,928    2,928    2,928
Annual Surplus                      -              86       ISO       235       294      303       302       363       362      388       349       344       336       361       370       303   7,353
Cumaulative Surplus                                86       266       501       795    1,098    1.400    1,763    2,125    2,513    2,862    3,206    3,542    3,903    4,281    6,072
1/ See Table 4. Annex 3.
81Sf 76 



INDIA
KERAIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cash Flbw for I Ha Model - Coconut Rehabilitation With IrriRation - Fodder Interplanted
(Rupees)
14-AAd
YEARS         Pre-Protect       1         2         3         4         5        6         7         8         9        10        11        12        13      After
INFLOW
Coconut Income (Net)               1,83B          591       917    1,785    2,978    3,467    4,149    4,832    4,972    5,112    5,182    5,282    5,322    5,392    5,392
Dairy Income (Net)                   -            -       3,523    3.523    3,523    3,523    3,523    3.523    3.523    3,523    3,523    3,523    3,523    3.523    3,523
Garden Crops Inc?me (Net)          1.120          224       358       411       490       528      528       528       528       528       528       528       528       528       528
Sub-total 1                   2,958          815    4,798    5,719    6,991    7,518    8,200    8,883    9,023    9,163    9,233    9,333    9,373    9,443    9,443
Long-term Loan                                 16,600    5,900        -
Long-term Interest Capitalized                    -       1,826       275
Short-term Loan                      242          133       704       704    1.340    1.405    1.405    1.405    1.405    1.405    1.405    1.405    1.405    1.405              1.405
Total                         3,200       17,548   13,228    6,698    8,331    8,923    9,605   10,288   10,428   10,568   10,638   10,738   10,778   10,848   10,848
OUTFLOW
Capital Costs:
Irrigation Faciliti a                        11,550       -         -        -                                    2,850       -         -         -
Coconut Replanting.1.                           150        90       132       180                                    -         -         -         -
Dairy 2/                                      2.752    7.500        -        -                                       -      1.700    1,700    1.700
Sub-total                                 14,452    7,590        132      180                                  2,850    1,700    1,700    1,700
Debt Servicing:
Long-term - Repayment                                     -         -        800    1,400    2,200    3,100          700    2,000    2,300    2,600    4,500    4,821
Long-term - Interest                                    1.826    2.675    2.696    2.608    2,454    2.212    1.871    1.794    1.574    1.321    1.035                540
Sub-total                                                               3,496    4,008    4,654    5,312    2 571    3 794    3,874    3,921    5 535    5 361
Short-term - Repayment             242          133       704      704    1,340    1,405    1,405    1,405    1,405    1,405    1,405    1,405    1,405    1,405              1,405
Short-term - Intereot               30           17        88        88      167       176       176       176       176      176       176       176       176       176        176
Sub-total                       272          150       792       792 - 1,517    1,581    1,581    1,581    1,581    1,581    1,581    1,581    1,581    1,581
Total                           272       14,602   10,208    3,599    5,193    5,589    6,235    6,893    7,002    7,075    7,155    7,201    7,116    6,942    1,581
NET FLOW                           2-928        2.946    3-020    3.099    3.138    3.334    3.370    3.395    3.426    3.493    3.483    3.537    3.662    3.906    9,267
Pre-Project Income Level           2,928        2,928    2,928    2,928    2,928    2,928    2,928    2,928    2,928    2,928    2,928    2,928    2,928    2,928    2,928
Annual Surplus                       -              18       92       171       210      406       442       467       498       565       555       609       734       978    6,339
Cumulative Surplus                   -0                                        491   _ 97    1.339    1.806    2.304    2_869    3.424    4.033    4.767    5,745
1/ See Table 5, Annex 3.
8/10/76



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVEIDPMENT PROJECT
Cash Flow for I Ha Model - Pepper Rehabilitation
(Rupees)
12 and
YEARS      Pre-Prolect       1        2         3        4         5        6         7         8         9       10        11     After
INFLOW
Pepper Income (Net)-/            2,050           (14)     116        64    1,634    4,602    4,602    4,602    4,602    5,982    5,982    5,982   5,982
Long-term Loan                                 3,450    2,750    2,300        800
Long-term Interest Capitilized                   -        380       723    1,056
Short-term Loan                    350                            1.118    1.118    1,384    1,384    1.384    1,384   -1384    1.384    1.384  1.384
Total                       2,400         3,436    3,246    4,205    4,608    5,986    5,986    5,986    5,986    7,366    7,366    7,366   7,366
OUTFLOW
Capital Costs                                  1,397       738
Debt Servicing:
Long-term - Repayment                                   -         -         -        800       900    1,000    1,100    2,500    2,700    2,459
Long-term - Interest                                    380       723    1.056    1.260    1.172    1.073         963       842      567       270
Sub-total                                             -        723    1,056    2,060    2,072    2,073    2,063    3,342    3,267    2,729
Short-term - Repayment           350           -        -       1,118    1,118    1,384    1,384    1,384    1,384    1,384    1,384    1,384   1,384
Short-term - Interest             44           -        -         140      140       173       173      173       173       173      173       173      173
Sub-total                     394           -        -       1,258    1,258    1,557    1,557    1,557    1,557    1,557    1,557    1,577   1,577
Total                                     1,397    1,118    1,981    2,314    3,617    3,629    3,630    3,620    4,899    4,824    4,286   1,557
NET FLOW                         2,006         2.039    2.128    2.224    2.294    2.369    2.357    2.356    2.366    2.467    2.542    3.080   5,8
Pre-Project Income Level         2,006         2,006    2,006    2,006    2,006    2,006    2,006    2,006    2,006    2,006    2,006    2,006    2,006
Annual Surplus                                    33       122      218       288      363       351       350      360       461       536    1,074   3,803
Cumulative Surplus                                33       1S5      373       661    1-024    1-375    1-725    2.085    2.546    3.082    4.156
I/ See Table 6, Annex 3.
8/10/76



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cash Flow Statement - Cashew Development by KSPC
(Million Rupees)
13 and
PRO.TECT YEARS                            1        2       3        4       5        6        7       8        9        10      11      12      After
INFLOW
1/
Net Operating Income:-
(before charging depreciation)
-  New Plantation                                                                          0.50.   1.71    2.12    4.31    5.40    6.09    6.35
-  Rehabilitated Plantation                     1.24    2.10    3.37    4.99    5.62    6.37    6.61    6.79    6.97    7.08    7.08    7.08
Sub-total                                1.24    2.10    3.37    4.99    5.62    6.87    8.32    8.91   11.28   12.48   13.17   13.43
Less Taxation 2                             -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -       2.20    3.80    4.70    5.50    6.00
1.24    2.10    3.37    4.99    5.62    6.87    8.32    6.71    7.48    7.78    7.67    7.43
Long-term Loans                            8.00    5.00    5.00    3.50    3.50    1.00
Short-term Loans                           3.75    5.75    6.75    7.50    7.50    7.50    7.50    7.50    7.50    7.50    7.50    2.50             -
Total Inflow                    11.75   11.99   13.85   14.37   15.99   14.12   14.37   15.82   14.21   14.98   15.28   10.17    7.43
OUTFLOW
Investment Costa '                         7.55    3.71    3.30    1.58    1.26    0.42
Debt Service:
Long-term Loan - Interest               0.42    1.00    1.40    2.05    2.45    2.75    2.75    2.40    1.80    1.49    0.94    0.28             -
- Repayment              -        -       -        -       -        -      2.50    5.00    4.00    5.00    6.00    2.50          -
Short-term Loan- Interest4/             0.45    0.60    0.80    0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90    0.90             30     -
- Repayment             3.00    6.50    6.75    7.50    7.50    7.50    7.50    7.50    7.50    7.50    7.50    2.50             -
Sub-total                        3 87    8.10    8.95   10.45   10.85   11.15   13.65   15.80   14.20   14.89   15.34    5.58            -
Total Outflow                   11.42   11.81   12.25   12.03   12.11   11.57   13.65   15.80   14.20   14.89   15.34    5.58            -
NET FLOW
Annual                                     0 33    0.18    1.60    2 34    3.88    2.55    0.72    0.02    0.01    0.09    0.06    4.59    7.43
Cumulative                                 0.33    0.51    2.11    4.45    8.33   10.88   11.60   11.62   11 63   11.72   11.78   16.37
It   Figures taken from Atmnt' 4, rable 2.
2/   Unttl year 9 there is no taxable income after adjusting for interest and capital allowances.
3/   Figures taken from Annex 4, Table 1.                                                                                                                        e
4/   Interest on short-term loans charged at 12%.                                                                                                                 X 
October 11. 1976



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cash Flow for a 10 Ton Crumb Rubber Factory
(Rs '000)
10 and
PROTECT YEARS                                 1         2          3          4          c         6           7         8          9       After
INFLOW
Raw Material                                                    (2,258)  (11,383)  (13,798)  (13,798)  (13,798)  (13,798)  (13,798)  (13,798)
Operating Eypenses                                                (236)      (869)   (1,012)   (1,012)   '1,012)   (1,012)   (1,012)   (1,012)
Operating Income                                                 2,673    13,477    16,335    16,335    16,335    16,335    16.335    16,335
Net Operating Income                                               179      1,224     1,525      1,525      1,525      1,525      1,525      1,525
Long-term Loan                              275       667        2,414       -         -          -          -
Long-term Interest Capitalized                         30          107                 -          -          -
Total                             275       697       2,700      1,224      1,525      1,525      1,525      1,525      1,525      1,525
OUTFLOW
Factory Capital Costs-                      275       667        2,187       -         _                                 264
Incremental Working Capital2'                -         -           376        376       878                               -
Sub-total                         275      667        2,563        376        878                              264
Debt Servicing7
Long-term,Repayment                                    -          -           300       100        900      1,000        800        393       -
Long-term,rnterest                                     30          107        384        351       340        241        131         43       -
Short-term Interest 3/                                 -            10         33         52        52         52         52         52         5?
Sub-total                                    30         117        717        503      1,292      1.293        983       488         52
Total                             275       697       2,680      1,093      1,381      1,292      1,293      1,247       488          52
NET FLOW                                      -        -            20        131       144        233        232        278      1,037      1 473
1/ Includes machinery replacement.
?/ One month supply of raw material.
3/  For 3 months a year, short-term borrowing to allow for additional one month storage.
October 11, 1976                                                                                                                                      t|



ANNEX 15
Page 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Malor Benefits
1.        Some 65,000 smallholders in coconut areas and 10,000 in pepper
areas would directly participate and benefit from the project. More than
50,000 small rubber growers who would sell at least a proportion of their
rubber production to the crumb rubber factories would also benefit. A com-
parison of farmers' income level in pre- and post project situations is given
in Table 3. Coconut Rehabilitation without irrigation would generate a 100%
increase in the income of about 45,000 families of the lowest income group.
This is the group whose annual farm income presently is about Rs 1,500 (US$160)
derived from 0.5 ha and often supplemented by activities like fishing and coir
making or with money sent from relatives who have migrated out of the State.
Coconut rehabilitation under irrigation with intensive intercropping would
yield more spectacular results. Largest increase would be obtained from 1.0
ha coconut holdings with cocoa as major intercrop, with farmers' income rising
from about Rs 2,900 (US$320) to Rs 10,300 (US$1,150). Dairy in 1.0 ha of
irrigated coconut holding would give Rs 9,300 (US$1,050), an incremental in-
come of Rs 6,400. Newly settled families estimated to be 9,000 would benefit
from the coconut new planting development on the 5,000 ha. Their income
would increase to Rs 3,800 (US$420) from 0.5 ha unirrigated plots, and to
Rs 10,300 (US$1,150) from 1.0 ha irrigated plots. Income of 10,000 pepper
farmers would increase threefold to Rs 5,800 (US$650). Debt service continues
until year 11 for pepper growers, and 13 to 15 years for coconut growers.
Incentive has therefore been built in farm models' by allowing improvement
of participants' consumption levels for all farmers. The 50,000 rubber
smallholders would benefit from higher prices realized for their scrap rubber
and, to a lesser extent, on their premium grades.
2.        Project production figures are summarized in Annex 13, Table 2
Increased output would be the result mainly of intensified and improved agri-
cultural practices since only 5,000 ha of additional land would be brought
under cultivation (coconut new plantings). Better yields would be obtained
not only from commercial crops and but also from garden crops. This increase
in productivity is of great significance to Kerala where land, relative to
other Indian States, is scarce. The per capita availability of cultivated
land is 0.11 ha and there is very little new land which could be brought under
cultivation. The many intercrops and the cattle raised under coconut, would
help improve nutrition standards of the participants' households as well as of
rural families in the neighborhood. Increments of coconut and cocoa produc-
tion would allow for foreign exchange savings, while pepper and cashew



ANNEX 15
Page 2
could bring significant foreign earnings. At full development (by 1990)
annual foreign exchange earnings from pepper and cashew would be Rs 110 H1,
and foreign exchange savings from coconut oil and cocoa Rs 125 M. Although
cashew would contribute to additional foreign exchange earnings, the prin-
cipal aim of the cashew development component is to demonstrate the feasi-
bility of applying intensive and improved practices in cashew cultivation.
This would contribute to GOK's long-term objective of increasing cashew pro-
duction to secure employment for the 125,000 people now working on the nume-
rous cashew processing units in the State. In addition, the economics of
introducing cashew apple processing would be studied. If the feasibility were
proved, it would be a breakthrough to utilize almost a million tons of cashew
apple which is now largely wasted.
3.        The project would also create additional employment of about 50,000
man-years during the development period, and 13,000 man-years thereafter annu-
ally for better management of the plantations, intensified intercropping, and
for harvesting. The main effect would not be creation of new jobs but rather
better utilization of the agricultural work force, since underemployment on
the farm is high. Employment would also be generated in the labor-intensive
industries which consume the raw materials provided by these crops, namely oil
milling, coir and cashew processing.
Additional Benefits
4.        Other benefits would arise from:
(a) institutional improvements through strengthened extension
services and by building project implementation capability
within the many institutions that would participate in the
project: GOK agencies, KSPC, IRB, CRMS, KRMF and the agri-
cultural credit institutions;
(b) provision of high yielding and disease resistant planting
materials for coconut, cashew, cocoa, pepper, and other
spices from the seed gardens to be established under the
project;
(c) strengthening research activities of CPCRI and AUK in the
field of wilt diseases of coconut and pepper which are of
major concern to GOK since a third of the coconut plantations
and pepper areas are affected;
(d) the demonstration effect that improved cultivation practices,
followed by project participants, would have on the surround-
ing smallholder farmers;
(e) probable project replication because the proportion of
rehabilitated coconut, cashew and pepper area is small



ANNEX 15
Page 3
(less than 5%) in relation to the total area under these
crops to be rehabilitated in the State as well as in the
two neighboring States of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu where
tree crops are also of major importance;
(f) provision of electric and water facilities to about
9,000 households; and
(g) increased milk production adequate to provide 75,000
people with the minimum recommended of 210 gm per day.
Methodologs
6.        Cost and benefit streams are considered for a period of 25 years;
no attempt was made to estimate the residual value of capital assets. Most
tree crops would still be producing after year 25 but with decreasing yields.
The crumb rubber factories with proper maintenance costs of machinery should
continue to be productive during the entire period. All replacement of equip-
ment and livestock considered necessary has been included.
7.        Costs.  1976 prices have been used for all items of costs.
Physical contingencies of 5% and 10% have been added to all project costs ex-
cept those relating to smallholders' on-farm development. Exchange rate used
in the computations is Rs 10.50 to 1 US dollar (rather than the ruling rate of
Rs 9.00) to reflect the relative scarcity of foreign exchange. Input and
equipment prices used reflect the elimination of all known tariffs and sub-
sidies. (The only subsidy involved is that on phosphates - at the rate of
Rs 1,250 per ton of P205). Hired labor has been costed at Rs 8.00 per day for
men and Rs 6.50 per day for women which rates are payable under the State's
minimum wages legislation. Family labor, however, is shadow priced zero;
there is heavy underemployment on the farm and it is inconceivable that
employment would be available to family labor outside the farmer's own land-
holdings. 1/
8.        Benefits.  Project benefits from agricultural development are taken
on the value of incremental production of coconut, cocoa, pepper, cashew, milk
and various intercrops. Commodity prices used are discussed in the Appendix
of Annex 13. No attempt was made to value the economic benefits arising from
seed gardens or research components, as these would be difficult to quantify.2/.
As a result of the rubber processing component, a readily useable product
1/   Incremental consumption by project participants who would be enjoying
better incomes has not been taken as cost; however this would be off-
set by the overestimated economic cost of hired labor since minimum
wages are not always applied.
2/   Costs of these components also have been excluded.



ANNEX 15
Page 4
(crumb rubber) would be made available to the tire industry, which would lower
their processing costs. This reflects into the price offered for crumb rubber
and consequently into a higher value obtained per unit of scrap incorporated
into crumb rubber, of about 20% over unprocessed scrap. This increased value
was included in the benefits.
Economic Rate of Return (ROR)
9.        Based on these assumptions ROR for the project would be 30% (Table
2). Calculations were also made of ROR for the various subprojects and are
tabulated below:
ROR
Coconut New Plantin                              %
-    without irrigation                         47
-    with irrigation                            25
Coconut Rehabilitation
-    without irrigation                         34
-    with irrigation                            15
Pepper Rehabilitation                           27
Cashew Development                              39
Rubber Processig                                68
10.       The sensitivity oL the above rates to variations in costs and
benefits has been tested and the results are given in Table 1. Overall ROR
drops to 26% if current exchange rate is used. Sensitivity of ROR for small-
holder farm development was also tested: if current exchange rate is used
ROR drops from 24% to 17%; if family labor is valued at half the minimum wage
and hired labor costed full, ROR would drop to 19%. Project ROR was also
tested for slower rate of implementation; one year delay in benefits would
reduce ROR from 30% to 23%.
II.       Since very little is known about the long term price trend for pepper,
a special analysis was made to ensure that the pepper component remains eco-
nomically justified even if project estimate of market trends turned out to
be too optimistic. The concern centered around the low price elasticity of
demand for pepper in the world market (estimated at 0.5), India's large mar-
ket share (about 25% of world production), the relatively large addition to
world exports this project would bring about (an estimated 3% of total exports
by 1990 1/) and, consequently, the possibility of a price fall that would
affect not only the additional production but India's current sales as well.
1/   Under the assumption that 3,000 tons would be absorbed by the domestic
market. This is a low estimate (para 7, Annex 13).



ANNEX 15
Page 5
A sensitivity test was therefore carried out with possible lower prices. It
was found that a ROR of 12% could be achieved even if pepper prices fell to
Rs 8.75/kg (such drop would result i- a marginal revenue of Rs 7.00/kg);
a price of Rs 8. 75/kg is less than half cif today's prices and at least 10%
lower than those during the last ter years (in 1976 constant terms - see
Table below). It is therefore reasonable to expect world prices to remain
above this level. It is worth noting that a price fall of this magnitude
would increase sales within India, where the price elasticity is higher than
in developed countries, to the extent that very little if any of the addi-
tional production would be exported.
Export Price Rs/ton (Cochin Black Garbled)
1966/70     1971      1972      1973     1974      1975
Years           Average
Current               438         656       543      647    1,058    1,145
Constant 1976 /a      952       1,261       961      965    1,290    1,220
/a   Using the Bank's index of prices of manufactured export from developed
countries.



ANNEX 15
Table I
INDIA
tERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return
ROR    Costs      Benefits
%     +10%        -10%
Coconut New Plantings         37.0     34.0       33.5
Unirrigated                46.5     41.5       41.0
Irrigated                  24.5     22.5       22.0
Coconut Rehabilitation        23.0     19.5       19.0
Unirrigated                33.5     29.0       28.5
Irrigated                  15.5     12.5       12.0
Pepper Rehabilitation         27.5     25.5       25.0
Smallholder Farm              24.0     21.0       21.0
Development Including
Extension Costs
Cashew Development            39.0     35.5       35.0
Rubber Processing             67.5     61.0       60.0
Total Project            29.5     26.5       26.0
October 14, 1976



INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Economic Costs and Benefits
fRs Klitl.ioo)
20
YEARS             1      2      3       4      5       6        7       8       9       10      11      12      13      14      15      16      17      18      19     to25
-CosT
Smallholder Farm nle"elopmrent
Coconust New Plantings Unirrigated          0.3     1.6    3.3    4.1    4.5       5.1    5.8    6.1    b.4    6.4         6.4     6.4     6.4     6.4     6.4     6.4     6.4    6.4    6.4    6.4
Coconut New Plantings Irrigated              -      1.3    1.8    3.4    3.1       1.9    2.3    1.8       2.0    2.3    2.7       2.4    2.1      1.9     1.9     1.9     1.9    1.9      2.1     1.9
Coconut Rehabilitation Unirrigated          0.8    6.7   23.0   23.6   24.9   25.4   25.9   26.2   26.3   26.3   26.3   26.3   26.3   26.3   26.3   26.3   26.3   26.3   26.3   26.3
Coconut RehabilitatLon Irrigated             -      3.5   19.3   31.6   48.6   39.3   33.7   30.3   31.1   33.9   36.1   34.4   50.5   30.4   30.4   30,4   30.4   30.4   45.4   30.4
Pepper Rehabilitation                       I 2    6.5   12.8   15,8   16.1   17.3   19.4   20.7   21.1   21.1   21.1   21.1   21.1   21.1   21.1   21.1   21.1   21.1   21.1   21.1
Extension Services                          3.4    6.0    6.7    5,1    4.3    3.1         1.9    0.9    0.7    0.5    0.4    0.3    0.3           0.3    0.3      0.3     0.3    0 3    0.3       0.3
Sub-totall                            5.7   25.6   66.9   83.6  101.5   92.1   89.0   86.0   87.6   90.5   93.0   90.9   106.7   86.4   86.4   86.4   86.4   86.4  101.6   86.4
Casbew Development                          8.9     5.3    5.2    4.1    4.3    4.7        4.8     5.0    5.1    5.2       5.2    5.2    5.2       5.2     5.2     5.2     5.2    5.2      5.2     5.2
Ruibber Processing                          1.8     3.9    9.3   15.4   19.7   12.7   11.9   11.0   11 0   10.2   10.2   10.2   10.2   10.2   10.2   10.2   10.2   10.2   12.9   10.2
tmJect Coordination                        0 1    0.1    0.1    0.           1    0.1    0.1        -       -           -       -       -       -           -       -       -       -        -       -
Total                                16.5   34.9   81 5  103.2  125.6  109.6  105.8  102.0  103.7  105.9  108.4  106.3  122.1  101.8  101.8  101.8  101.8  101.8  118.7  101.8
BENEFITS!'
Smallholder Fars, De0elopment
Coconut New PlAntings Unirrtgated            .     0.2    1.2      3,0    4.9      6.2     7.7   10,4   13.7   17.2   20.2   22.6   24.6   26 2   27.5   28.0   28.3   28.3   28.3   28.3
Coconuit New Plantings Irrigated             -       -     0.1    0 5    1.1    1.7        2.3    3.2    4.2       5.2    6.2      7.2    8.0      8.7     9.3    9.6   10.1   10.3   10.3   10.3
Cocon,it Rehabilitation Unirrig.ted        0.1     0.7    3.2    9.2   19.4   32.1   43.1   49.2   61.0   61.5   66.5   71.2   76.2   76.2   76.2   76 2   76.2   76.2   76.2   76.2
Coconut RehabilitAtion Irrigated             -    (0.2)  (0.5)   3.2   12.5   22.0   29.4   36.7   45.1   52.2   59.2   65.5  ',9.9   73.6   73.6   73.6   73 6   73.6   73.6   73.6
Pepper Reh.bilit-tinn                      (1.1)  (5.4) (10.9) (10.9)    -    21.3   43.6   55.9   59.8   64.2   71.1   75.1   76.2   76.2   76.2   76.2   76.2   76.2   76.2   76.2
Sub-total                             (1.0) (4.7)  (6.9)    5.0   37.9   83.3  126.1  155.4  183.8  200.3  223.2  241.6  253.9  260.9  262.8  263.7  264.4  264.6  264.6  264.6-
Cashew Development                         0.9    2.3    3.8    6.1    9.2   11.4   14.5   17.2   19.2   22.7   24.9   26.2   26.6   26.6   26.6   26.6   26.6   26.6   26.6   26.6
Rubber Proressine                            -       -     1.6   13.2   28.4   43.5   47.2   47.2   47.2   47,2   47.2   47.2   47.2   47.2   47.2   47.2   47.2   47.2   47.2   47.2
Total                                (0.1)  (2.4)   1.5   24,4   75.5  138.2  187.8  219.8  250.8  270.2  295.3  315.0  327.7  334.7  336.6  337.5  338.2  338.4  338.4  338.4                         ,.
it Pump energizcatiot cost *ffectively recovered through electricity charges which have been accounted for.
2/  Inclu,le* net benefits from gardan "apoe.
October 16. 1976



ANNEX 15
Table 3
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pre- and Post Project Smallholders Income Level
Holdings                            Income
Median                               Full I/
Size     Number       Pre-Project   Development    Incremental
(ha)                 ------------------(Rs)------------------
Coconut New Planting
-  Without Irrigation       0.5    8,000            156            3,785            3,629
-  With Irrigation           1.0    1,000           312           10,336           10,024
Coconut Rehabilitation
-  Without Irrigation       0.5   45,000          1,464            2,707            1,243
-  With Irrigation -        1.0    3,750          2,928           10,281            7,353
Cocoa
-  With Irrigation -        1.0    3,750          2,928            9,267            6,339
Fodder
Pepper Rehabilitation          1.0   10,000         2,006            5,809            3,803
1/ After Debt Servicing is completed.
9/23/76






IBRD 12410
To Mongoio-e                                   76ID                                        770                     OCTOBER 1976
\t                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~INDIA
To    AGRICULTURAL KERALA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
,  ,    %,\>0   |   S   ~T. M.rcor
6
-*. 3ak#8>;\  ,J'  120
T.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
C;\ <: /MonVlo,ojnIddopy                                          -...*"*
:   9tNANORE-.>;   KARN ATAKA1J
~ -   ' 9 < /   s  t \    T. MyTo,  C
-   fimnoror*5<03+   Mommaizii;O| 1   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ToComboor
~~go  iisGdc TowPer,glomtho                                                               To Udonrolp.i
  Olstrsct Capilolb ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     . Of.-d
Dist  Jo .       lom Nbur/                           T A  M   I L
.   \ \e~~~~  /    /OtWondurT.C |bot
,         -,, ,,    h,sod ,,,,,M,                                                            oroi   +
-.,   .              \   E 4\9,  PALG+Af _                    S   To Coimbotore~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ToModro
,1l m,,.,, ,,'',,,,, ', ...... , X >
-'  ;'                                          Fj- *.-   9oprornos C.or.fre 
~~~8A.YOF~~ENGAL~                                             h&5 5  7  0
-  I I  I  hdi                  Gfi9    e    F~~~~~~~~t NmOro y    Klegd
0   Citiels and Torwns                        -                                                        T. Udl)mIp 
z 9ctt BounXrief ~~~~~~~~~P-  Aroml  IDUKKIcope
AREA~~~~~~~~~~ l                                       /  } Lr                 O ulmov|
-W~~~~~ 100- ?W 
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAP ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~.h
LAN                                                                           K.H.rWity
PAKIS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TAN Md,J'_., \/X
t~~~~~~~            H I  NDI  A  -W M                                                       ..           T. M.d-Y
>v 0    tX   L                                 f    +   gNyyoftinkorc  i                             /~~~~~~~~~~~~Shoft
-   >  S  ) . as.t of @E/VG~~~~~NAt ; -  t g.cqhooo/
>   ;   ~;  w#  ,6s-S.2-X2'.9BUR;'
I~~~~~              ,_ D  ,_ A.. ..'l  5'                                                             a,.



