Document of
The World Bank
1  0t4LC     t                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1953-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE                          z    w
INTEPNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION      EI             X    H     i
ON ~ ~ ~ ~   ~  ~   ~~r        it -  >
TO THE                              0               I
TOR THE                              ,j 
-              ;a
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 3, 1.977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance M
|their official duties. Its contents mnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at January 12, 1977)
Rs 1.00             =   Paise 100
US$1.00             -   Rs 8.91
Rs 1.00             -   US$0.1122
Rs I million        =   US$112,200
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially valued
relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these currencies are
now floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject
to change. Conversions in the Appraisal Report were made at
US$1 to Rs 9.00.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - Mlarch 31
List of Abbreviations and Acronyms Used in this Report
ARDC    -     Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CPCRI   -     Central Plantation Crops Research Institute
GOI     -     Government of India
GOK     -     Government of Kerala
IRB     -     Indian Rubber Board
IDOA    -     Kerala Department of Agriculture
PCC     -     Project Coordination Committee
SADU    -     Special Agricultural Development Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTLVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA FOR KERALA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recomjmendation on a proposed
development credit to the Government of India (GOI) in an amount equiva-
lent to US$30 million, to help finance an agricultural development project
in the State of Kerala, mainly for the improvement of tree crop agriculture
with particular emphasis on the betterment of the economic status of the
smallholders. For lending to farmers for the development of small holdings,
to State Electricity Board for irrigation pump energization, Plantation Cor-
poration of Kerala for cashew development, and cooperatives for rubber pro-
cessing facilities, funds would be channeled through GOI to the Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC) at 6.75% minimum annual interest
for lending of up to 9 years, and at 7.25% minimum interest for lending of 9
to 15 years. For other development works, funds would be channeled through
GOI to Government of Kerala, Indian Rubber Board and Central Plantation Crops
Research Institute according to the standard terms and arrangements for GOI
financing of State development projects.
PART I  -  THE ECONOMY-/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(1073-IN dated March 29, 1976), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 2, 1976. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size and diversity; the country is divided into more than 20 States with
a population of some 600 million and over 60 languages. The country's poverty
and inadequate domestic savings, together with a net transfer of external
resources averaging over the past five years only about US$1.20 per person
per annum, have imposed sharp limitations on the rate of growth. Account must
be taken, also, of the uncertainties imposed by the erratic availability of
water. A bad monsoon, which is likely to occur about two years out of every
five, has a pervasive influence over the entire economy and can wipe out the
results of years of efforts. Thus, the annual growth of national income over
the last five years (1971/72 - 1975/76), which included two consecutive mon-
soon failures, has averaged only 2% per annum, less than the rate of popula-
tion increase.
4.        Since Independence, progress has been impressive on many fronts,
but disappointing on others, and generally has fallen short of India's mas-
sive needs. The growth of the socio-economic infrastructure (transport,
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts
I and II of the President's Report for the Bombay Urban Transport
Project (Report No. P-1898-IN), dated October 13, 1976.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



- 2 -
education, health services, etc.) has been impressive, but has often been
achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality. Many
industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful,
but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated
well below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and struc-
tural change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments in many
other parts of the world,. but in other regions there has been stagnation and
possibly even decline. Although national income has increased in most years,
there has been in general little impact upon the living standards of the vast
masses of the urban and rural population. In recent years, the Government
has initiated a variety of programs specifically directed toward helping the
lower income strata, which - conservatively measured - consist of some 200
million people with incomes of less than US$60 per head per year.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.    Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, with its share of national product declining
only gradually from about 50% to 42% over the last twenty years. The share
of industry has increased only slowly and, since the late 1960s, has remained
approximately constant at about 23%. There has, however, been a shift in the
composition of industrial production, with consumer, intermediate, and capital
goods now contributing about one third each, compared with an overwhelming
preponderance of consumer goods 25 years ago.
Recent Trends
6.        India entered 1975/76 having been through one of the most difficult
periods since Independence. Progress in dealing with long-term development
problems had been limited by poor crops, the dramatic shifts against India in
the terms of trade, and inflation. Adjustments to these immediate difficul-
ties thus became the principal preoccupation in economic management. However,
with the support of favorable weather and additional foreign assistance, it
now appears that India has successfully weathered the problems of the recent
past; once again there is the basis for an upturn in the growth rate of the
economy.
7.        Most important among the favorable factors have been a bumper har-
vest which followed years of poor or modest agricultural output. Foodgrain
production in 1975/76, estimated at around 117 million tons, exceeded the
previous record of 1970/71 by 8%. Oilseeds, sugarcane and cotton also reached
new production peaks and provided ample supplies for the agro-industries. In
1976/77 a good harvest is again expected of at least 110 million tons of food-
grains. Secondly, deficiencies in the supply of basic commodities and of in-
frastructural inputs such as energy and transport, which had been prevalent in
the past, have been eased. Electricity generation and domestic production of
coal, oil, cement and steel all increased by over 10% during 1975/76 and by a
further 15% in the first eight months of 1976/77. Finally, the increased
supply of agricultural and industrial products and of services, together with
the demand restraint imposed by the Government since mid-1974, put a virtual
stop to inflation. From April 1975 to March 1976 the Wholesale Price Index
fell by 8.1%. Although from April to September 1976 the Index rose by 11%,
it was still 5% lower in September 1976 than in September 1974.



- 3 -
8.        On the balance of payments front there have been a number of en-
couraging developments. Firstly, the rapid build-up of foodgrain stocks to
a level of 17 million tons by December 1976 provides a buffer against the
impact of a future crop failure on the balance of payments and has reduced
current import requirements. Secondly, despite generally unfavorable world
trading conditions, export earnings rose by 9% in 1975/76, and seem likely to
rise by more than this in 1976/77. Thirdly, the value of petroleum imports
was stabilized in 1975/76 (although there is likely to be a rise in 1976/77),
and steel imports have been progressively reduced in 1975/76 and 1976/77 as
a result of increased domestic production. Finally, increased production
and lowered world prices have reduced fertilizer import values quite sharply.
As a result of these factors, imports rose only 5% in value in 1975/76 and
the trade deficit fell by almost $100 million. Developments so far in 1976/
77 suggest a more dramatic improvement in the trade balance this year. More-
over, since net aid rose 49% in 1975/76 and India received substantial in-
flows of private remittances during the past one and a half years, reserves
rose by almost $800 million in 1975/76, and are continuing to rise at a com-
parable rate in 1976/77. These reserves give India added flexibility in
adjusting to a higher rate of growth in the future.
Development Prospects
9.        While many of the most acute problems were eased during 1975/76,
longer-term constraints to growth remain. Many of these have existed for
some time, but their importance had been temporarily overshadowed by the more
overwhelming limitations imposed by supply shortages and balance of payments
problems. One such constraint is the deficiency of demand for a large seg-
ment of the manufacturing industry. Consequently, in the midst of adequate
supplies during 1975/76, the use of manufacturing capacity - especially for
consumer durables - remained low. In the short and medium term, the two most
promising ways of stimulating demand are to boost public investment and ex-
pand exports. Both avenues are currently being pursued by the Government.
During 1975/76, real Plan outlay rose by 18-20%, after having fallen during
each of the previous two years. The 1976/77 Budget proposed a further in-
crease of 16% in real terms and introduced new measures to stimulate invest-
ment in the private sector. Investment priorities remained the same as in
1975/76, namely agricultural development and increased production of critical
industrial inputs, such as power, coal, oil, and iron and steel.    The Budget
also stressed the importance of exports as an essential condition for sus-
tained stability in the balance of payments.
10.       In agriculture, the basic problem remains that, despite the record
foodgrain crop in 1975/76, the long-term growth rate of foodgrain production
in India has been unacceptably low, at about 2.3% per annum over the last 15
years. This is about the same as the rate of population increase. Starting
from a situation of deficit, this has meant that only in good years has there
been a significant margin of production to cater to any per capita growth in
consumption, and even in normal years it has been necessary to rely on stocks
or imports to meet any growth in demand. With a major effort to expand the
irrigated area and provide complementary inputs, the average growth rate of
foodgrain production could be substantially increased. This is essential,



- 4 -
not only because of the necessity to meet food requirements without unmanage-
able consequences for the balance of payments but also because of the strong
influence of agriculture on the levels of activity in other sectors of the
economy. Even with a higher growth rate of foodgrain production, imports
will still be required. However, in relation to India's total consumption of
foodgrains, the dependence on imports has been and will remain small. In the
past, domestic production has accounted for almost 100% of supplies in good
weather years and about 90% when harvests were poor.
11.       The energy sector in India was characterized by shortages even
before the international oil crisis developed. The dramatic hike in oil
prices, coinciding as it did with the accentuation of electric power
shortages - caused in part by low hydroelectric generation due to poor
monsoons - led to an acceleration of measures to improve performance of
existing facilities and to a much higher priority for investments in the
energy sector. The effects of these measures, aided by the good monsoon, are
now starting to be felt. Coal production has increased by 10% or more in each
of the last two years, and, partly as a result of this, power shortages and
restrictions have been greatly reduced. The medium-term prospects for oil and
natural gas have improved with the delineation of the offshore Bombay High
field. Crude production from this field is expected to be 1 million tons in
1976/77 and to reach 6 million tons by the end of the Plan period. On this
basis, petroleum imports are projected to start declining in 1978/79, as
increased crude production and expanded refinery output more than offset
increases in demand.
12.       In the past, export growth was affected in varying degrees by in-
adequate profitability, lack of access to imported inputs, poor quality,
instability of the policy environment and vulnerability to ad hoc decisions.
In addition, for agricultural commodities export taxes were significant.
For some homogeneous commodities, such as iron ore and tea, inadequate sup-
plies or limited world demand have been important constraints. In recent
years, mainly because of the large trade deficit, the Government's emphasis
on export promotion has intensified. As a result, although the fundamental
orientation of India's industrial and trade policy and the specific instru-
ments of the export regime have, by and large, remained the same, a signi-
ficant shift in emphasis and in the way these policies are operated has oc-
curred. These are likely to lead to a better utilization of current export
potential and reflect a willingness to make policy adjustments, when neces-
sary, to expand exports.
13.       While it is difficult to assess the impact of the new measures in
an area where policy is already very complex, some improvement has already
taken place and further improvement in medium-term performance seems likely.
An annual real export growth rate of over 7% should be feasible, compared
to an average of 5% over the last five years. However, to achieve a higher
export growth over the long run, more far-reaching policy measures will be
required, including the introduction of a more uniform and more stable sys-
tem of export incentives. Even so, the export drive might be impeded by
controls in some developed markets.



- 5 -
14.       India's balance of payments problems should be manageable over
the next few years, even with the repayment obligations resulting from re-
cent short-term OPEC and IMF borrowings. The worldwide inflation has bene-
fitted India by reducing the proportion of export earnings that have to be
devoted to debt service. India's debt service ratio has come down from 31%
in 1970/71 to 17% in 1975/76. Provided the real growth of exports remains at
about 7% per annum, the debt service ratio is unlikely to rise much above
20% in the foreseeable future. On the import side, given the adequate level
of stocks on hand at the end of 1975/76 and assuming normal weather condi-
tions, annual foodgrain imports could be kept to 5-6 million tons during the
next three years. Within the general category of non-food imports, India
has substantial medium-term import substitution opportunities for three
major items -- petroleum, fertilizer and steel -- which constituted more
than 60% of imports in 1975/76. If the medium-term targets for production in
these areas are achieved, the total expenditure on these three import items
in 1978/79 need not be any higher than in 1975/76 and could quite conceiva-
bly be less. Provided the Government is willing to liberalize imports and
donors continue to respond to India's needs, the easing in the external
payments situation presents an opportunity to raise the level of investment
(complemented by larger imports of capital goods, components, and raw
materials) and, consequently, reach a more satisfactory level of long-term
growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
15.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 49 loans and 80 development
credits to India totalling US$1,751 million and US$4,112 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$785 million has been
repaid, and US$1,651 million was still undisbursed as of December 31, 1976.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of December 31,
1976, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totalling US$58.4
million, of which US$11.9 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled.   Of the balance of US$32.0 million, US$25.5 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of December 31, 1976, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
17.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The-Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterp~rises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.



- 6 -
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
18.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
19.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic re-
ports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in large
part to the response of the aid community, India has successfully adjusted
to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need for readily
usable foreign exchange assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate
investment and accelerate economic growth, remains. Bank Group lending for
critical industrial raw materials and components continues to be an important
element within the overall program of assistance. As in the past, Bank
Group assistance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the
financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import
component of projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas
as agriculture, education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be
able to make an appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in
these sectors, it is important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
20.        It is clear from the review of the Indian economy that as much as
possible of India's external capital requirements should be provided on con-
cessionary terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to
India has been, and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the
amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small
in relation to India's needs for external support, and some Bank lending
to India, for which the country is creditworthy, is appropriate. As of
June 30, 1976, the loans to India held by the Bank totaled US$701 million, of
which US$266 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstand-
ing of US$435 million.
21.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 58%, 24% and 29%,
respectively, in 1975/76.   On March 31, 1976, India's outstanding and disbursed



- 7 -
external public debt was US$13.1 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was 25%. The Bank Group's share is expected to remain around this level in
the future. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the
form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In
1975/76, about 15% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE IN KERALA
General
22.       Kerala, the southernmost State of India, is a long narrow coastal
strip between the Arabian Sea and the Western Ghats. Population density in
Kerala, exceeding 550 per sq. km., is three times the national average. Per
capita income is somewhat below the national average. Agriculture in Kerala,
as in most States in India, is the mainstay of its economy. It provides
employment to 60% of the working population and generates 58% of the State
income. It is, to a large extent, a smallholder operation as almost two-thirds
of the holdings do not exceed half a hectare. Some 60% of the State territory
is cultivated and the scope for expansion is severely limited by topographic
factors.
Tree Crops
23.       Commercial tree crops, grown mainly by smallholders in 70% of the
State's cropped area, dominate Kerala's agriculture. Kerala and, to a lesser
extent, the two other Southern States of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka account for
nearly all of the national production of tree crops other than tea. Kerala
accounts for most of India's production of pepper (98%), rubber (92%), coconut
(67%), and cashew (84%), and for sizeable shares of cardamom (47%) and areca-
nut (36%). Cashew and pepper are important Indian export items, yielding
US$110 million and US$38-million respectively, Kerala accounts for over 90%
of these exports. However, yields of the tree crops have been much below
potential and are declining. Continued decline in production would adversely
affect the lives of many of the State's rural families.
24.      *Coconut is grown on about 25% of Kerala's cropped area, about two-
thirds of the total coconut area in India. Apart from providing nuts for
domestic food consumption, Kerala produces some 300,000 tons or 90% of
the country's copra. Of this copra, 50% is milled in the State in more than
1,100 oil mills. The coir industry, based on coconut husk, provides direct
employment to more than 600,000 people, mostly women. The crop also produces
300,000 tons of coconut shell used mainly as fuel.
25.       The, average size of coconut holding is less than 0.5 ha.   The
growers follow mostly traditional cultivation methods. The yields are low
and have declined sharply in recent years. Current yields per ha average



- 8 -
4,000 nuts as against 6,000 nuts in 1969/70. Yields from existing gardens
could be increased by more than 100% if improved cultural practices are
adopted by the farmers. A 50% yield increase can be achieved by irriga-
tion in the dry season. Although proper fertilizer applications can double
crop yields, only about 10% of the smallholders apply fertilizers. About a
third of the area under coconuts has been badly affected by root-wilt and leaf
rot disease, for which the Central Plantation Crop Research Institute and GOK
have commenced remedial steps.
26.       Cashew is planted on 105,000 ha of land, from which Kerala produces
118,000 tons of raw cashew. There is great scope of increasing yields by
means of improved cultural practices. India produces a total of 140,000 tons
of raw nuts, and imports the remainder of the raw nuts processed in the
country. Import decreased from 193,000 tons in 1972 to 116,000 tons in 1975,
because India's main suppliers, Mozambique and Tanzania, are developing their
own processing facilities. In Kerala, there are 264 cashew processing fac-
tories employing some 125,000 workers.
27.       Pepper is grown on 120,000 ha of land, mainly by smallholders.    In
Kerala average yield per hectare is very low at 250 kg compared with 1,000 kg
obtained from plantations in Indonesia. This low yield is due to unimproved
varieties, overaged vines, diseases and inadequate cultural practices. GOK
is encouraging farmers to replant with higher yielding varieties and adopt
improved cultural practices.
28.       Rubber plantings in India increased by about 50%, to almost 225,000
ha, during the twelve years ending 1975/76. More than 90% of this is in
Kerala. Though rubber yields improved from 365 kg/ha in 1961 to 760 kg/ha in
1975, the scope for further improvement is considerable. GOI's intention is
to increase the annual production by 60%, from the present 130,000 tons to
205,000 tons, in 1985. This will meet less than 50% of the estimated domes-
tic demand. Rubber, like other tree crops in Kerala, is grown predominantly
by smallholders. Existing processing facilities for smallholders are inade-
quate and, for the most part, uneconomic. Most smallholders process their
rubber into ribbed smoke sheets in their houses without proper facilities.
Such crude methods result in a product of poor quality which fetches low
prices. More than 20% of smallholder's rubber is sold to re-millers as scrap
grades at even lower prices. Since 1960, the Rubber Board has been organizing
Cooperative Rubber Marketing Societies (CRMS) to assist the smallholders in
marketing rubber. At present, there are 36 CRMS of which 27 are affiliated
to the Kerala Rubber Marketing Federation (KRMF). Less than 10% of the
smallholders' rubber is traded through CRMS. GOK and the Rubber Board
plan to expand their role by integrating processing and marketing of rubber
through these cooperatives and their apex KRMF.
29.       Other crops include cocoa which is a relatively new crop in India
but appears to be very well suited to Kerala conditions, particularly to
intercropping with coconut. Tapioca, second in importance to rice as the
staple food of Kerala's poor is grown on about 318,000 ha. Ginger is a



- 9 -
valuable crop grown extensively, producing annually over 26,000 tons on about
120,000 ha. Kerala has the largest horticultural area found in any State of
India. Fruits, mainly mango, jackfruit, banana and pineapple, occupy some
180,000 ha. Vegetables are grown in abundance in almost all parts of the
State, while pulses and groundnuts are found in drier areas.
Institutional Framework
30.       Agriculture in India is a State responsibility, GOI providing guid-
ance through the Five Year and Annual Plans, and financial support through
budget allocations. GOI follows two approaches to assist States in planning
and development of major perennial crops. For cardamom, coffee, rubber and
tea, there are all India Commodity Boards which are quasi-Government organiza-
tions with limited autonomy under the GOI Ministry of Commerce. For other
crops, including coconut, cocoa, cashew, spices and arecanut, there are
Directorates which function under GOI's Ministry of Agriculture. The respon-
sibilities of Commodity Boards are wide and include planning, research, ex-
tension, marketing, and labor conditions. The main function of the Directorates
is to examine policy and prepare, in consultation with State Governments,
proposals for the Five Year Plans. The State Departments of Animal Husbandry
and of Agriculture are responsible for extension services relating to livestock
and to all crops except those which are under Commodity Boards. The extension
activities of the State Agriculture Department concentrate on specific areas
and on major crops, through modern techniques of farming, use of better seed,
systematic fertilizer application, plant protection, stimulating the flow of
credit and general technical assistance. This approach is popularly known as
Intensive Package Program. There is an adequate pool of qualified staff in
Kerala with agricultural training and background.
31.        Responsibility for agricultural research was transferred in 1972,
from the Kerala Department of Agriculture to Kerala Agricultural University.
All state Research Stations including those for coconut, pepper, cashew and
horticulture, are now responsible to the University. The University carries
out applied research, and research findings are disseminated mainly through
training given to the extension staff of the Kerala Department of Agriculture.
Basic research related to plantation crops, especially coconut, is conducted
by the Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI). The latter works
on associations of crops with coconuts, particularly the intercropping with
cocoa. CPCRI also organizes training for state extension staff. Kerala
Department of Agriculture is represented on the Boards of CPCRI and the
University. Research on livestock development is being carried out at an
Indo-Swiss Project being implemented in the State.
32.       Institutional credit for agriculture in Kerala is provided by 11
District Cooperative Banks and 1731 Primary Credit Societies for short-term
and medium-term lending, and by 30 Land Mortgage Banks for long-term lend-
ing. Commercial Banks, relatively new in agricultural credit, also extend
short- and medium-term financing. The Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation (ARDC), which has satisfactorily participated in several Bank
Group financed projects in India, is involved in refinancing agricultural
loans in Kerala.



- 10 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The project was prepared by the Government of Kerala (GOK) with
assistance from an FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program mission that visited India
in the Spring of 1975. A project preparation report was completed by GOK
in early 1976 and the project was appraised by IDA in May/June 1976. A
report entitled "Appraisal of Kerala Agricultural Development Project",
dated January 25, 1977, is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. The negotiations were held in Washington from December 20 to 29,
1976. The Indian delegation included Mr. Chatterjee, Director, Department
of Economic Affairs, GOI; Dr. Kalkat, Agricultural Commissioner, GOI; and
Mr. Muralidharan, Agricultural Production Commissioner, Kerala. A credit
and project summary is attached as Annex III and a supplementary project
data sheet is attached as Annex IV.
Project Description
34.       The main purpose of the project is the improvement of tree crops
production in Kerala State, with particular emphasis on increasing benefits
to small farmers. The project covers most of Kerala's important smallholder
tree crops and has been designed with an eye to its replicability. The size
of individual project components represents a compromise between the desire
to benefit through this first phase operation as many smallholders as
possible and the need to tailor the project to the financial and managerial
resources of the State. The project would consist of the following:
(i) Strengthening of extension services, to be established
under a Special Agricultural Development Unit (SADU)
(para 42), and provision of long term credits, to be
refinanced by ARDC (para 43), for agricultural develop-
ment in coconut and pepper growing areas involving
smallholders. The activities would include:
- new planting of high yielding coconuts on 5,000 ha
of Cannanore, Kozhikode and Malappuram Districts;
- rehabilitation of coconuts, including replanting
(or replacement of senile and unproductive trees)
on 30,000 ha in areas free from root-wilt disease
in Cannanore, Kozhikode, Malappuram and Trivandrum;
- provision of minor irrigation facilities for about
20-25% of these 35,000 ha of coconuts;
- intercropping in these coconut areas, to include
about 3,000 ha in cocoa, 3,000 ha in fodder for
dairy cattle and 2,500 ha in other crops with
irrigation; and



- 11 -
- rehabilitation, including replanting, of 10,000 ha
of pepper in Cannanore, Idukki and Kottayam.
(ii) Rehabilitation of State-owned cashew plantation of 2,280 ha,
new planting of 1,470 ha, and establishment of a pilot plant
for cashew apple processing in Cannanore, to be implemented
by the Plantation Corporation of Kerala.
(iii) Establishment of ten crumb rubber factories, each of 10
ton/day capacity, to be owned and operated by Cooperative
Rubber Marketing Societies or Kerala Rubber Marketing
Federation.
(iv) Provision of agricultural support services, which would
include:
- establishment of a 435 ha seed garden under SADU for
coconut, cashew, cocoa and spices; and
- strengthened research by the Central Plantation Crop Research
Institute and Agricultural University of Kerala and train-
ing and technical assistance for agricultural research
and rubber-processing activities.
35.        Coconut development would be undertaken in about 85 'package' units
of 500 ha each -- new plantings on 10 units and rehabilitation of 75 units.
Based on surveys carried out by GOK, about 80% of the farmers in project areas
are expected to participate in the coconut rehabilitation program. Thus
30,000 ha (out of 37,500 ha) would be effectively rehabilitated - 400 ha in
each of the 75 units. About 25% of the farmers in a package unit are expected
to start developing their holdings in the- first year, 50% in the second year
and the remaining 25% in the third year. At least 20% of the project areas
identified for coconut new plantings and 25% of the areas planned for coconut
rehabilitation are expected to be developed more intensively under irrigation.
Planting materials used would be largely from selected West Coast Tall,
Laccadive ordinary and hybrid seedlings raised in the Kerala Department
of Agriculture (KDOA) nurseries. Cultivation practices, including fertilizer
application and plant protection measures, would generally be in accordance
with the package recommended by KDOA which, in turn, follows practices recom-
mended by the Central Plantation Crops Institute. Systematic intercropping
would be encouraged to maximize farmers' income from investment. This would
supplement farmers' income, particularly in the early years when return from
investments on coconut will be low. Tapioca, pulses, and vegetables would be
intercropped in unirrigated areas, while cocoa and fodder grass would be
intercropped in irrigated areas. Cocoa would be planted in 50% of irrigated
areas in accordance with cultural practices recommended by KDOA, including
fertilizer application and plant protection. Fodder would be intercropped in
the other 50% of the irrigated areas and dairy would become an integral part
of coconut farm rehabilitation in such areas. It is estimated that about
10,000 cows, mainly Brown-Swiss Cross, a new breed created by the Indo-Swiss
Project, would be maintained on about 3,000 ha of coconut farms intercropped
with fodder.



- 12 -
36.        Pepper rehabilitation would be undertaken in about 20 package
units of 500 ha each. It would involve replacement of about 50% of the
existing vines in the project areas, which are senile and uneconomic, with
high yielding and disease resistant varieties. Rehabilitation activities
would include improved cultural practices as recommended by the Kerala Depart-
ment of Agriculture.
37.        Cashew development would be undertaken by the Plantation Corporation
of Kerala on a commercial basis. The rehabilitation and new plantations would
also demonstrate to cashew smallholders in Kerala the potential benefits from
improved practices. The project would consist of three components: rehabili-
tation of the 2,280 ha cashew plantation in Cannanore District which will be
transferred from the Kerala Department of Agriculture (KDOA) to the Corpora-
tion; new plantings on 1,470 ha of new land, also in Cannanore; and setting up
of a pilot plant for processing cashew apple into wine, beverages and preserves.
Transfer of KDOA's cashew farm in Cannanore and other land suitable for new
cashew plantation to the Corporation would be a condition of disbursement for
the cashew component of the project (paragraph 4(c) of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement).
38.       Ten crumb rubber factories would be set up under this project.
Nine of these would be new and located in areas to be determined upon the
recommendation of the consultants provided under the project (para 41). The
tenth one would be the expansion of an existing plant operated by the Palai
Cooperative Rubber Marketing Society. All factories are designed to produce
'B' grade crumb rubber using 70% to 80% scrap grades blended with ribbed
smoked sheet and/or field latex. Each factory would be equipped with a test-
ing laboratory to control product quality. Factory construction would
start in phases, beginning in the second year of the project, and all would
be commissioned by 1982. The factories would be owned and operated by Coop-
erative Rubber Marketing Societies. In cases where Societies are not
forthcoming, the factories would be run by their apex -- Kerala Rubber
Marketing Federation (see para. 28).
39.       Seed gardens to produce nursery seeds would be established on
435 ha - 300 ha for coconut, 50 ha for cashew, 35 ha for pepper, and 50 ha
for cocoa and spices. Large quantities of improved seeds are required for
the tree crop development programs planned by the State. Although Kerala
Department of Agriculture has established several coconut, cashew and pepper
nurseries to make seedlings available to the farmers, it does not have gar-
dens to produce seeds. The project would help remedy this situation by es-
tablishing seed gardens to produce high-yielding and disease-resistant
seeds. GOK would make suitable land available for this purpose, and this
will be a condition of disbursement for the seed garden component of the
project (paragraph 4(d) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement).
40.       Extension services included in the project would provide intensive
technical support that is crucial for successful development of small holdings.
The proposed arrangements would be similar to those followed in Kerala under
Intensive Package Programs, but the staffing intensity at field level would
be doubled in the project areas. Two Agricultural Demonstrators and one



- 13 -
Junior Agricultural Officer would form a team and cover a package unit of 500
ha or about 1,200 farming families. Veterinary Surgeons and Livestock Assist-
ants would also be added to help farmers engaged in dairy. The Project would
also provide training, vehicles, low cost office buildings, and spraying equip-
ment for plant protection.
41.       Research, training and technical assistance would form integral
parts of the project. Basic research on tree crops is undertaken by the
Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (except for rubber, which is
carried out by the Indian Rubber Board) and adaptive research by the Agricul-
tural University of Kerala But the existing work is inadequate, particularly
for important crops like coconut, cashew and pepper. The project would
supplement the activities already planned, by providing laboratory buildings,
equipment and supplies, research personnel and training. Qualified consult-
ants, for short periods (totalling 18 man-months) would be recruited to assist
the Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (Section 3.02(a) of the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement). For the rubber processing component, services of
experienced engineering consultants (for 27 man-months) would be obtained to
assume responsibility for planning, designing, construction supervisions and
commissioning of the new crumb rubber factories (Section 3.02(b) of the
Development Credit Agreement). In addition, the services of a crumb rubber
processing specialist (for a total of 12 man-months) would be engaged to visit
Kerala periodically and advise the Rubber Board in the operation of crumb
rubber factories (Section 3.02(c) of the Development Credit Agreement).
Overseas training would be provided for at least five managers appointed to
run the factories, and about three senior executives of the Rubber Board who
will be associated with the implementation of the rubber component. Employ-
ment of the engineering consultants would be a condition of disbursement for
the rubber component (paragraph 4(b) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement).
Project Implementation
42.       Coconut and pepper development, including intercropping, dairy devel-
opment, related extension support and seed gardens, would be the Government of
Kerala's responsibility. These activities would be implemented through a Spe-
cial Agricultural Development Unit (SADU) which has been established under the
Kerala Agricultural Production Commissioner. A senior officer has been ap-
pointed to work as the chief executive of SADU. The chief executive would
be assisted by four deputies with specialized responsibilities including exten-
sion services. Cashew development would be the Plantation Corporation of
Kerala's responsibility. The Corporation has established a cashew Project
Department, and a full-time Director has been appointed. The Director would
be responsible to the Managing Director of the Corporation and would have
adequate staff to implement the program. Crumb rubber factories would be
established with the assistance of the engineering consultants (para 41). A
Rubber Processing Department would be set up within the Indian Rubber Board to
assist the cooperative institutions in their investment planning and in the
operation of the factories after they are established.



- 14 -
43.       The proposed project would provide about US$20.7 million to ARDC to
refinance long-term loans to be extended to participating smallholders and
agencies. Kerala Land Mortgage Banks and Commercial Banks would advance loans
to smallholders for on-farm development. These banks would also advance loans
out of the credit proceeds to the Kerala State Electricity Board to energize
smallholders irrigation pumps. Long-term needs of the Plantation Corporation
for cashew development would be provided by a commercial bank of its choice.
Finance to Crumb Rubber Marketing Societies or the Kerala Rubber Marketing
Federation for construction of the crumb rubber factories would be disbursed
by the State Cooperative Bank. The project does not provide funds for seasonal
loans as the existing arrangements are satisfactory and would be continued.
ARDC would prepare a project banking plan which would lay down a program for
strengthening the rural banking system. Preparation of a banking plan accept-
able to IDA, would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(d) of
the Development Credit Agreement).
44.       A Project Coordination Committee (PCC) has been constituted for the
overall coordination of the activities of all the project entities. The Kerala
State Agricultural Production Commissioner is its chairman and its members
include representatives of GOI and all the agencies involved in the implemen-
tation of the project. The chief executive of the Special Agricultural
Development Unit will act as member-secretary. The functions of PCC include:
coordination of procurements under the project; liaison with agencies partici-
pating in project implementation; liaison with GOI, GOK and IDA; project mon-
itoring; and preparing claims for IDA disbursements. GOK has agreed to estab-
lish a satisfactory evaluation arrangement to identify problems and evaluate
benefits realized by participating farmers and agencies. This arrangement
will be maintained for a minimum of ten years (Section 2.02 of the Kerala
Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
45.       The total project cost is about US$69 million equivalent over
7 years (including some $7 million in taxes and duties) of which about US$10
million is the estimated foreign exchange content. The proposed credit of
US$30 million would finance about 48% of the total cost, net of taxes and
duties, and would cover the whole of foreign exchange costs and about US$20
million of the local costs. The remaining local costs would be met by GOI
and GOK (US$7.0 million), ARDC and the participating banks (US$25.5 million),
other participating agencies (US$1.8 million), and smallholders (US$4.7
million). Details of cost estimates and financing are given in Annex III.
46.       The bulk of IDA funds, US$20.7 million, would be channeled from
GOI to ARDC to refinance loans to be extended by banks to farmers and the
Kerala State Electricity Board for smallholder development, to the Plantation
Corporation of Kerala for cashew development and to Crumb Rubber Marketing
Societies for rubber processing. US$2.0 million representing all other
project components would be passed on by GOI to the Indian Rubber Board and
Central Plantation Crops Research Institute, and to GOK for allocation to the



- 15 -
other agencies (University, SADU) implementing project activities. The
remaining US$7.3 million would be left unallocated to meet physical and price
contingencies. ARDC would refinance 75% to 90% of loans made by the banks to
the final borrowers. The banks themselves would finance 85% to 95% of the
investment costs of the final borrowers and require the final borrowers to
find 5% to 15% of their investment costs in accordance with the established
ARDC procedure for different types of borrowers. Details of the on-lending
arrangements are specified in Annex III.
Procurement and Disbursement
47.       Equipment for new crumb rubber factories (US$2.2 million) would be
procured by international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA Guide-
lines. Contracts valued at US$100,000 or more for equipment for the expan-
sion of the Palai crumb rubber factory, farm equipment, vehicles, laboratory
and office supplies and equipment (US$3.1 million) would also be awarded
under international competitive bidding. In most cases, however, contracts
would not be suitable for bulking into groups of US$100,000 or more because
individual items are small and scattered geographically and over time.
These would be awarded in accordance with local procurement procedures in
which competition is assured by adequate representation of local suppliers
and local agents of foreign suppliers. Civil works contracts (US$4.8 million)
would be let under local competitive bidding procedures, which are satis-
factory. International competitive bidding would not be practical for civil
works because of their small size, scattered locations and a long implementa-
tion period. Domestic manufacturers would receive a 15% margin of preference
or the prevailing customs duty (if lower) on items procured under international
competitive bidding.
48.       As is usual in the case of agricultural credit operations, inter-
national competitive bidding procedures would not be suitable for procure-
ment financed by loans to smallholders (US$34.9 million) to purchase farm
development inputs. These loans would be advanced to about 75,000 farmers
in small amounts and the operation would be spread over seven years. On-
farm development for cashew and seed gardens (US$1.1 million) would be
carried out over a seven-year period by State agencies on force account.
Consultants' services (US$0.5 million) would be engaged in accordance with
IDA Guidelines. The balance of the project cost (US$5.0 million, excluding
contingencies) would consist of land, staff and related expenditures not
involving procurement.
49.       Disbursements of IDA funds would be as follows:    (i) 100% of foreign
exchange cost, 100% of ex-factory cost or 50% of the total costs of equipment
and material; (ii) 100% of the cost of consultants and overseas training;
(iii) 50% of loans disbursed to farmers and the State Electricity Board
and refinanced by ARDC; (iv) 50% of all civil works and development costs
relating to cashew farms and seed gardens. Disbursements under (i) and (ii)
would be made against the usual documentation for expenditure. For items
under (iii) and (iv) disbursements would be made against appropriate certi-
ficates of expenditure, based on documents which would be available for
inspection by IDA during the course of Project supervision.



- 16 -
Project Benefits and Risks
50.       The project would permanently improve the income of some 75,000
rural households, the majority of whom belong to the poorest segment of the
population. Major benefits would accrue from increased output resulting from
intensified and improved agricultural practices on 30,000 ha of coconut re-
habilitation and 10,000 ha of pepper rehabilitation, and on 5,000 ha of new
coconut planting. At full production, incremental output would be about 200
million coconuts (18,000 ton coconut oil equivalent), 6,000 tons of pepper,
15,000 tons milk, 2,000 tons cocoa, 6,000 tons cashew and 40,000 tons of other
food crops. Rubber processing facilities would yield higher income to 50,000
smallholders by upgrading the quality of 25,000 tons of low grade rubber.
Increased milk production would be adequate to provide 75,000 people with the
minimum recommended 210 gram per day. In addition, the project would generate
50,000 man-years of additional employment during development and 13,000 man-
years annually thereafter. Increased production of pepper and cashew would
add US$12.0 million to annual foreign exchange earnings at full development
by 1990. The establishment of seed gardens and the provision of research and
extension activities would yield far-reaching benefits in the development of
crops involved.
51.       Coconut rehabilitation without irrigation would increase income,
from 0.5 ha holdings, from US$160 to US$300. Coconut rehabilitation with
irrigation and cocoa or fodders as major intercrop would increase income,
from a 1.0 ha holding, from about US$320 to about $1,100 annually. New
planting of coconuts would increase income, from unirrigated plots of 0.5 ha,
to US$420 and from irrigated plots of 1.0 ha to US$1,150. Farmers'income from
pepper rehabilitation would increase threefold to US$650 from a 1 ha plot.
52.       The economic rates of return are:   33% from coconut rehabilitation
without irrigation investments (US$7.9 million of project cost) and 15% with
irrigation investments (US$13.4 million); 46% from new coconut planting with-
out irrigation investments (US$2.7 million) and 25% with irrigation invest-
ments (US$1.4 million); 27% from pepper rehabilitation investments (US$9.5
million); 39% from cashew development investments (US$1.8 million); and 68%
from rubber processing investments (US$4.5 million). The weighted average
rate of return for the whole project is 30%.
53.       The large difference in the economic rate of return between that
portion of the coconut development program, which includes the provision of
irrigation and that which does not, raises the obvious question whether the
funds now proposed for irrigation would not be spent more effectively when
used to improve coconut production without irrigation, in an area larger than
presently proposed. The answer is, in part, that this is not a practicable
alternative: the program as proposed essentially consists of a highly elab-
orate extension effort which involves a large number of staff and is greatly
dependent on effective management. The staff and administrative resources
required by a larger program would not have been available during the project
period. The substantive part of the answer is as follows: the returns from
a program that essentially consists of the introduction of improved cultiva-
tion practices without providing irrigation, while large in relation to the



- 17 -
amount of expenditures, is small in absolute terms for the average holding.
At the same time, land in Kerala is scarcer than the national average, as
reflected in the relatively small size of average holding. In the foreseeable
future, it is difficult to see the pressure of population on the land being
reduced, either through the growth of non-agricultural activities in Kerala
or through migration to other regions in India. Thus, in order to provide
Kerala's population dependent on agriculture with a reasonable level of
income, the productivity of land will have to be raised. Among the most
promising approaches to achieving this objective is the provision of irriga-
tion for coconut which, according to present estimates will increase the
income derived from a plot of one ha. from US$320 to as high as US$1,150. The
irrigation component of the project as proposed represents an initial attempt
to move in that direction. Finally it should be noted that the economic rate
of return on investment in irrigation, as calculated above, does not include
certain benefits which it was not possible to quantify: in Kerala water is in
short supply and wells will improve the availability of water for domestic
purposes. Moreover, water available from wells may well be spread over an
area larger than has been assumed in the estimates underlying the calculation
of the economic rate of return as presented in the preceding paragraph.
54.       The most significant risk inherent in the project lies in the com-
plexity of the project itself, which would involve a number of different
crops, thousands of smallholder farmers, several government departments,
cooperative societies and national and state institutions. The involvement
of a large number of institutions is due to the fact that the Project con-
sists of a number of components that are quite distinct. Measures to
coordinate, monitor and expedite all phases of implementation have been
discussed with GOI, GOK and other agencies, and necessary arrangements made.
Development programs with relatively long gestation periods and involving
smallholder farmers, as in the case of the proposed project, also entail risks
that they will meet with inadequate response from farmers. These risks were
considered and conservative assumptions made in regard to project phasing,
costs, yields and commodity prices. Risks other than these are no greater
than can normally be expected with operations of this type, and are acceptable
in view of the benefits which would accrue to a large number of small farmers
and to the economy as a whole.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Kerala Project Agreement between the Association and
the State of Kerala, the draft ARDC Agreement between the Association and the
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation, the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agree-
ment and the text of a draft Resolution approving the proposed development
credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
56.       The features of the draft agreements of special interest are
listed in Section III of Annex IV.



- 18 -
57.       The additional conditions of effectiveness, specified in Section
5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement, would be:
(a) the execution of the Kerala Project Agreement;
(b) the execution of the ARDC Agreement;.
(c) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Borrower and ARDC; and
(d) the preparation by ARDC of a banking plan acceptable
to IDA.
58.       The conditions of disbursement, specified in Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement, would be:
(a) transfer of Kerala Department of Agriculture's cashew
plantation in Cannanore district and about 1500 ha
of suitable land for cashew plantation to Plantation
Corporation of Kerala would be the condition of dis-
bursement from the cashew development component of
the project (see para 37);
(b) allocation of sufficient land suitable for seed gardens
would be the condition of disbursement from the seed gar-
dens component of the project (see para 39); and
(c) employment of engineering consultants would be the
condition of disbursement from the rubber component
of the project (see para 41).
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
February 3, 1977



ANNE I
LANC AREA (THOU KM21                           -
-__________--__                               INDIA                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970).
TOTAL     3280.5                                    MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     178191                    1960      1970   ESTIMATE         INDONESIA     PHILIPPINES    BRAZIL*
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    70.0      110.0      1jO.O              110.0      230.0      540.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)         429.0       542.7      609.6            116. 3      36.9        92.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      131.0      165.0      186.0             61.0      123.0        L1.O
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LANO       2s5.o      290.0      319.0 L           405.0      279.0       66.o
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND       413.2      42.7        39.9              45.9      44.2        38.4
CRUCE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND        23.9      18.8       15-7               20.6       13.2        9.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE I/THOUI      139.0         ..   120-140.0 /b                     80.0       L1O.0
LIFE ExPECTANCY AT BlRTH IYRS)       1.7       47.2       49.5               45.0       55.c       59.7
GRCSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2        2.9         2.8               3.2        3.3        2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                                L.8         2.4       2.4               2.0        3.0         2.9
URBAN                                 2.5 b      3.2       3.1               3.7 /a     4.0         5.0
URBAN POPLLATION (2 OF TOTAL)          17.9       19.8       20,6              17.0 lb    27.6       56.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 To 14 YEARS                      41.0       41.6        40.1              11.0       45.6       42.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                      55.9       55.3       56-7              53.5        51.6       55.0
65 YEARS ANC OVER                    3.1        3.1        3.2                2.5        2.8        3.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   0.8        0.8         0.8              0.9         0.9        0.8
ECONORIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3 /       .         1.2 a.              -        1.5        1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS ICUMULATIVE, THOU)      1O00.0 d 11308.0      26566.o             259.3     354.0       250.0
USERS (2 OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..         ..       15.8 /              *-         2.0        1.6
EPPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)      189000.0          .    221000.0 to                   12300.0    29600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (U)        73.0         ..        72.0&               ..       55.0 /     44.0
UNEMPLOYED IY UF LABOR FORCE)           .0                    2.0               *-         7.0
INCCME DISTRIBUTION
I OF PRIVATE INCOME REC*O BY-
HIGHEST  sx OF HOUSEHOLDS            26.7      25.0 /        ..                ..         ..       35.0ua
HIGHEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS            51.7      53.1 l        ..                ..         ..       62.0 
LOWEST  20o OF HOUSEHOLDS            4.t        4.7          ..                ..                     0
LOWEST  40Y OF HOUSEHOLDS           13.6       13.1 t       ..                 ..         ..       10.0a/
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
___ __________________________
T OWNED BY TOP 10 OF OWNERS            ..          ..         ..                ..         ..       45.0
Y OWNED BY SMALLEST LO1 OWNERS          ..          ..         .                                      1.5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PEP PHYSICIAN            5800.0 If  4800.0      4620.o /        27650.0          ..     1950.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       -52R0.0 /fsg 5110.u    426c.c? ,        8010.0          ..     3300.0
PCPULATICN PER HOSPITAL BED         2600.0 7    1620.0         *             1 720.0     850.0      260.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (I OF REQUIREMENTS)        95.0       93.0        914.0 /h          89.0      100.0      109.0
PROTEIN IGRAMS PER DAY)             55.0       53.0        52.0 7T           43.0       45.0       64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        19.0/.      16.0        ..               14.0       22.0       39.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4           44.0         ..          ..                ..        9.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      3.0 0      68.:0       79.0 lb           69.0      108.0       87.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     9.0 Z       ..        28.0              120.       48.0 o     28.0/C
YEARS OF SCHCOLING PROVIDED
IFIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            12.0       12.0                          12.0       10.0       13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(t OF SECCNDARY)                     8.0        6. 0         *-              29.0        6.o /     17.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)               24.0        33-0       36.Ju. i            -          *-       68.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)             2.6A         ..        Z                   .a  -               1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WAtER (2)                       ..         ..          .                 ..       66.0 Id.   73.0oL4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
tY OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  ..         ..          ..                .        23.0 /d    48.0
-"RAL GWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (I)                    ..          ..         ..                ..        6.0        8.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS IPER THOU POP)         5.0       2l.O        23.04L           114.0       45.0       60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POPI           0.7        L.0        1.0(a             2.0        8.0       25.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          46.0       114.0      129.0              20.0      235.0 o     491.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)              0.2         0.3        0.3               0.2        1.2 /f     2.7
_-----------         ------------_    _-----_     ---------------------                         ----- -
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANEXI
Page 2
NOTES
-eecebniented, dota for 1960 refer to any year betwee         1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Moo        Recet Estimate     ewe
1973 ad 1975.
-   Rrae-l boo boon .eleotod bec-e       of ire sloe end Oepareble peeblce       af regiOnsia  1.eqeallty.
2151.6          ~~1966   /0   1951-61 a-erge;      lb  1951-60;    /c   Ratio of popolation adtr 15 end 60 oed ever to laber forte aged 15-59,            /d   1964;
_____           -      7;~T  Rlegletered applicentn foe work,    Tf   1962,    La  Including midwives, both nIere cod midwive        registered, not all pra.tnielg
in the coun.try,    /b  1957,    ji   1960-62,    /i  6-13 cod 14-19 yeera of age reapertively,        /k   Hounebe1de.
1970     Ia  1967-689    lb   5-10 pears of age,     It   1967.
MOST iECEINT ESTIMtATE-     Ia  1972;    /b   1971,    /c  geie of    pplaion coder 15 end 60I and ener to labtr ferc         aged i5-5M;
7;  Notional pegron only,       Is   AIDc retina te of lebor force in age grecy 15-59.    1IBRD report gives a fig.ro
of 190.4 million base.d on the 1971 pepalation cenwe         The dilfference  it da     t inhanges in the definition
of a eerier.    In the 1971 ces.t.. Ipetaon   were classified only on the basis of their main actinitia..
This led in the    nlno      of several categories.,anh asbnwlca               /f  Reginnered applicann. t.fr verb;
Inooding midwives,        lb  1969-7i averge,      /i   Popelation 10 years and cys;       /1   go..a.holda.
IRDONFSIA             1970     Ia  1961-71,     /b  1971.
PHIlyLIPINEo          1970     Ia  As percentage of    nploym-ti,     /b  7-12 aed 13-16 yeses of age rosyncti-ely;        It  Sot including priv-te vational scheela
or voctional short tercttn              /d   1967, hnenho1ds       I   Inside only
Bf6711.               1970     /a  toonmically active popclation.        lb   Hespital personnel;     It   12-18 yearn of age,     Id   inside only.
R9, lely 21, 1976
DEPINITIONRS iF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Lavd Area (th-y he2)                                                                     Poplto      prse      nnnr          Popelation diolded by n-b-e of practicini
T.t.   - Tetal n-rface ermaconprisieg land area end Ilan.d eater,                            ae   n  fonee trde.t      nae,      trained   or 'certified' o           -ae,ed
Attic.   M- Pe  recent inanimat  of ogrie-ic.ra1 area eecd tenpora.rily or                 ae.si1tary persenesi with treitieg nr esperlenc..
pere...n sly for ctops, pasticre, macbet & kitchen gardens or no lie                   PIP,latien Pee heanital bed - Popultindivided.y h7nbh- of hospital beds
felice.                                                           aec~~~~~~~~~~~~ilab   In public and private gnrel an  peilsd hoapital and
rsbabili-ati-nsnr.nttda               c   c   ho,rns and estabihmet        o
c-ni torrecite  05$) -GNP per espi- taetmts     t    rct    racit prices,            c__idia    anI d peec-ni-n cars.
calculatd by en         coveson     thed o  World Ioni Atlas 11973-73 basis);          Pee eaissoeyo          clre      (7. nf reeironenta) - Cenpeted ftI en      . esrgi
1960, 1970 and 1975 dote.                                         eqe~~~~InaIet cf-st food eepplies availble in coe..iry per ceplta per day;
avilable seppliss comprise dometic production, inperts leases.prts,
Pccclotiov and vital otetistics                                     so~.d changes in atei; net sepplies ealude aninal feed, seeds, qeati-
Pocelailc  mid-nc.  illien) -As of J ly first.  if set a-alsble,                   ties es.ed in feed process.ing aed leases iv dintcibhei-c; reqeir-nnt
-erage of tee otd-yeucn..ticotes;       96, 197    aod 1975 data-                        mer   etimnted by FAO based on physiological.. neds for te-t1 eceticpr
an.d heal1th c...sideringsnieoetltoperater, body wiht,ag                     n
Poocltion  ensit-er square in       Mid-year population per square bile-              se     diteibetiose of pepolatiot, end a1lbeit8 107. for wd        a   eee
ente   1lihenret       r   totalara                                                      held level.
Perciatien dens.ity - pre  sere ke of eerie, land - Conputed aa above foe                Per caPita   nPpely of pretein (aton      ers  dcy) - Protein t-ten t of per
agri-nit-a1 land etly.                                                                   caPita net spply of food Per day; vet aepply of food is defined a
acerqeironetn for all        . rcte ins etblished by USDA E.....mic
dmt1 stai-i-e                                                                              Research Sevcsprovide ice a mmcvallwt               ne o    6  grce   cf total
Crude birth rate pet tho...and, -vrag - A ... I lIne births Pet thoweand                    protein per day, and 20 fEces of atinnl asd "pulse Ipratei, of which
of nid-year pnpolatioa; ins-year     rcithnctie a-regee seding in 1960 and               10 gr-n sheeld be animal protnis; thene standards are Inner than those
170,ad fire-ye er, average ending in 1973 for coat crs...        se.ti-ttt.             of 75 grams of total potein and 23 gron        of cainal precet    asa
Crude  et     assctosn,aaaa-Asta                         tcpetnsn            imd             vrg    for th werd,      roptend by PAO1 in the Third Werld Peed Sorvey.
year populaiac,     e-e-ye   arithostic avrgseding in 1960 and 1970 and                Pe   aiaponesele iron at'L                and puglse - Protein s-pply of feed
fits-year averag    eding ic 1973 icr non t recent na tinate.                            deinad iron animalsend pie          ingrn     pe     da.
Iciane vortaiLny rain C/thou) - Anneal deeths of infants eader one year of               Death rare C/thee) ages     _-  - Aen-el deaths per theeo-d In ag      group
age per thousan d lIce births.                                                           1-4 yearn, to childrcv in tibi     ago groep; suggeeted asa       Mnictotr of
Llfi ero- tency at birth (yes)      _A-Avrge cam ber of yearn of life renainig             neutto.
at birth; ..s.ei1Y five-year--. neaes mdiog iv 1960, 1970 and 1975 fcr
develop ig ....ntiele.                                                                 Ed .c.tios
ircnsrncroectientateAvetag,enP,-I,    of line daunhte..as.    man will1           AdPj-atedtenr-ileestre.t I   - peimary sehool - E-11--en       of all ages a
bee   In herI  tnlrerdutv            eicd if_shin eperien..es presen t age-              pecnaeo          rmry sehool-ags p.epeletina, includes childrs1 age,d
speclifi.fertlilipy rates; usualIly fiveyea      aorgen ending iv 1960,                  6-11 yeara hot adjeated for differn        lgtsc       prmyedaties
1970 anid 1975 for developing     onentriec.                                              fo   cetrscith aienl               nain      encalim..t may ....eed 100%
Pouato   -nnth rait1.) - taa- cpodees16cth rates of mid-                             aIc ceppl            r   min   or   boethe tffidi       school age.
Year PoPelat!io   fcr 1950-_60,1960-70 and 1970-75.                                    Adjesintd. ..or1I-nee ratie - sce-darn aehocl - Canpe,ted a        bove
Popelnloc goeth  ate (7) - uban -Carpered 11Am gr-wtb rate of total              seedayndeca tine~ reursa             es    oryaso          pproved primary
popua-tiec; differet definitines of orhe areas cay affect conpern-                       instruction; provides general, vctional or teacher training
bulit   o f date acing coutries.                                                         inetructiuo    fur pupils cf 12 tc 10 yearn of age; ccrespund.n..
irb,c cpuietlo- (7. of motel) - R.ie of urbam tc total populatie;                            .nuse  are..... gnrally  -selded.
difforeot defilitions of -b- areas nap effect ... parebility of date                   bearso    sh.nlina provided (firea and s--od level) - Total yonra of
among coentriss -                                                  scho~~~~ti ing; at  ecodary level, nocatinnal in-   ot-io- may bs par-
Aeeurue Ceerceet) - TChildree    (0-14 years), wokilsg-age    (15-64 years),         tiiy.rc.pei               enledod.
and retire~d  65years     n  over    spretgao           ndyn       euain               Vocativ... cen      et(7. of secondary) - VP.e.tiona      in-titati..s include
Ate dep.nd ...y ratio     Rent ci, pp,nIce'o    cede   15 lcd 60adove       to              technical, industrial cc other progeas which opersi tindependently or
Ec..   cd'ee.           t._Rt.tIt                                                                      yrt       ,    '    "ithose of ages 15 thr-ugb 64.  asdeparenota of necondary inttiten.
t     Pnmcdroecyrto-Rteof population            -nd- 15 and 65 and over            Adult1  iteayrt         )- Lterate adlIt. (able to read and writs)a
no the labr frc      in   g groupof 15-6      year.                                      Percentage of tota     adult population aged 15 years end over.
family P,nn       -acetr.(..ttie              thee) - Conelati-     -wbe- of
accptors of birth-control doeiten ondee        ,,pice, onaioa        f_mily            Housing
planning program   since iv-ptiot.                                                     Parsons pro come (seine) - Average ecabhr cf persona per ren         in
family clan.nina - caere (7. of earind     -eeen) - Porcentages of aneried                 ec..npied e    etinideelliogs in urbanaras            duellinga maclde
wae  of child-hearing   age   1-4 yearn     ah. use birth-contrc1 devices              anprnnc         atucer      and ene-epied parts.
so alloarris  wontio sas  ago goap-                                ccupied dnelllna wihot      ped     ater (7. c- trpied conventionl
dwellings In erbam and rura      area  cith-t innide or nutalde piped
E.ploy,.ett                                                                                 ae    facliie      asptesn         f  l   occuPied deeliga..
banal lber foce (thusand)- Econonically active pernens, including                A    -rs  tn electricity (7. of all d-Llingn) - Co-etinna1 dwellings with
armed  .ecaad anweploped bet eariudiag, hous-ives, ntndsntt, etc.                        electricity In living qon"rist     as percet of total dwellings in urban
defi"tlito    in various   ...ntr imsarstcoparable.                                      andruralaras
Loiter force in   eiel      n(7)-Ageicnltcrallbr farce (in f.inig,                       Rural 1dwelliteas cEne.cted to electric is    (7. - Competed as above Far
inety, henting nod fishing) es Perenaf        ofttallbor fact,rura                          doelling    ny
Oescoe      7  ilbrfo     rce)t- dnpleynd Arc eseally defined as persoon
woeaaIe end willingto tekmn jo,nt cif.ajobian-             give   day,           Cnatn
r-ae       e  o      o,an. -he         mc    o      pciad mnmnpeid                     Rdo eemc          (Per thee non) - All types of receivers far radio breed-
son mcminding tee men;fsay nethe cprable between            oneotrina doe tc             casts to genral. puhlie per thoos...d of pcpalation; eaIdine unli-nened
diffeIrent definintint   ofI cepleynd'and e.rcues    f data, e.g., nnpley-               re enters ine,     i in   ad in ponre when-     gsrtn       of r.di. sets    n
.end  cffie statietics, sanplesorveyn, cempelcory -ooplbpsn-t iLe...           en.       in effect; datm for tren..    pears may not he    aoprable since mat
enonirien- ablpished licens.ing.p.
I.room disttribtioe - Pereetags IF private Incom.e (both in cah and bin)                 I.....ner cars    erPtho    one) -      -Pssngr tee  cenprie inmter tars seat-
reevdby riches.t 5%, richest 207., poorest 207., ond pnnry,t 40% of                  ing less thee eigh t persos      maidieabulances, hsarssaed militsep
Electeicity lAnh/yr pet can) - An-oal conaepti-n of industrial, en
Distributigon  f   ad   mnrt   i     Per-sntegen of land nensd by enaIthient                ieta,public and privats elctrie ti          im kilowatt boats parcai;
107 ..cdpecn      10.olad       snrs.                                                    generally based on production data, with-nt al11an--        far lesse .pint
Ngrids hut allowin for imprta end eaports of ni1-tricity.
Health and Nutrition                                                                      _warintP(a/r       ret  -Pn) - per caPit in  etnl cneamptinn in kilogrsos
P  tulnon per physlicia  - Papolatine divided by, cambe    cipetl       getimated iron domestic production pies nre                      iepnrts of newsprint.
physcian   qealified fr.. c medical school atunvest            iss.



ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1974 -s US$140
GROSS IUATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975/76 -                                             ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant prioes)
USS Bln.       %                                1961/62-1964/65     1965/66-1969/70     1970/71-1973/74
GNP at Market Prices               80.4       100.0                                    3.4                 3.7                 1.9
Gross Domestic Investment          15.1        18.8
Gross National Saving              13.9        17.3
Current Account Balance            -2.0        -2.3
Resource Gap                       -1.2        -1.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)          Labor Force           V.A. Per Worker
US$ Bin. %iT                                T                SaAver
Agriculture                        24-5                 46.6            130.0   72.1          188             64
Industry                           11.8                 22.3             20.2   11.2          582            199
Services                           16.3                 31.1      t       02  6,   7          542            186
Total/average                      52.6               100.0             180.4  100.0         292             100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government _.                        Central Goverment
(Rs. Bln)                o Of GDP                (Re. Bln)                of GDP
1975/76      1975/76    1973/74-1975/76         1975/76         1974/75   1972/73-1974/75
Current Receipts                   107.63          18.2           17.3              112.17            9.1          9.2
Current Expenditures                98.99          16.9           16.3              112.17            8.2          B.7
Current Surplus/Deficit              8.64           1.3            1.0                -               0.9          0.5
Capital Expenditures   i/           40.40            5.8          5-4                85.23            4.3          4.1
External Assistance CPP (net)       10.17           1.4           1.0                10.17            1.4          1.0
iMONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                1965/66     1970/71    1971/72    1972/73     197/74     1974/75    March 1975     March 1976
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
M&rzay aud Quasi Money                     61.4       105.7      IF .A      442.2       169.1      187.4       187. 2           213.6
51ink Credit io Pulblic Sector             40.8       56.9       69.o        82.5       92.9      102.0        1 02. 6          L07.3
x~l' 1  Ie<  to Private Seotor             28.1       56.7        64.4       76.0       9(.1       100.5       109.5            134.2
(Percentage or Index Ilunbers)                     June    1975    June   1976
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP          24.0        24.4       26.3       27-9        27.2       25-5
Wholesale Price Index
(1961/62 = 100)                       131.6      181.1      138.4       207.1      254.2      313.0        316.0           290.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                       7.7         5.5        4.0         9.9       22.7       23.1                        -8.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector               12.9         8.6       21.3       19.6        12.6        9.8                         4.8  /
Bank Credit to Private Sector              12.8        17.4       13.6       18.0        18.5       11.5                        22.9 i
a/ The per capita GNP estimate ie at 1974 market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the 1976.
World Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during
the period covered.
h/ Quick Estimates.
o/ Computed from trend line of GNP at faotor cost series, including one observation before firet year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
.  Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
e/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
v Credit to Govorrment.
v Credit to Commercial Sector.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS              1972/73     1973/74     1974/75     1975/76 h/            MERCHANDISE EXPORTS(AVERAGE 1973/74-1975/76)
(US$ Million)                                                  US$ Mln.        %
Exports of Goods                  2,558       3,239       4,143      4,555                 Jute Manufacturers     299           9
Imports of Goods                 -2,682      -3,971      -5,739     -6,102                 Tea                    247           7
Trade Balance                       124      - 732       -1,596      -1,547                Cotton Textiles        391          11
NFS (net) i                         146        n.a.        n.a.       n.a.                 Engineering Goods      390          11
Others               2,134          62
Resource Gap                     - 270         n.a.       n.a.        n.a.                 Total                3,461         100
Interest Payments (net)          - 237       - 233       - 260       - 261
Other Factor Pyments (net) i/    -    8        n.a.        n.a.       n.a.
Net Transfers-                   -   50        n.a.        n.q.       n.a.
Balance on Current Account       - 565         n.a.       n.a.        n.a.                 EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1975
Official Aid                                                                                                                 US$ Mln.
Disbursements                   955       1,249       1,766      2,249                 Repayable in foreign currency      11,247.7
Amortization                   -445        -459        -519        -522                 Repayable through export of goods     635
Transactions with IMF                            75         530         205                Total Outstanding and Disbursed     11,882.7
All Other Items                      89         205          41         500
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1975/76      17.2 percent   _k/
Increase in Reserves (-)           - 34        -105          38        -794
Cross Reserves (end year)         1,311       1,416       1,378       2,172
Net Reserves (end year)           1,311       1,341         773       1,474                 IBRD/IDA LENDING, June 30, 1976      (US$ Mln.)
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                                IBRD      IDA
Imports                             265         720       1,451       1,417                Outstanding and Disbursed       435     2,948
of which: Petroleum               265         719       1,451       1,417                Undisbursed                      266    1,236
Outstanding including           701    4,184
Exports                              41          20          26        n.a.                  Undisbursed
of which  Petroleum                37          16          17        n.a.
RATE OF EXCHANGE .1/
Prior to mid-December 1971       US$1.00   Rs 7.5                                          After end June 1972    :  Floating Rate
Rs 1.00   US$0.133333                                      Spot Rate December 31, 1976
Mid-December 1971 to         :   US$1.00   Rs 7.27927                                                     approx. us$1.00 - Rs 8.901
end June 1972                  Rs 1.00 - US$0.137376                                                   approx. Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.112
h/ Estimated.
1/ For 1973/74 to 1975/76, included with 'All other Items'.
i/ Aid and trade figures converted to US dollars using exchange rates and IMF trade conversion factors as indicated in inside front
cover of this report or notes to individual tables.
k/ Amortization and interest payments (excluding IMF transaction) as a percentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA.CREDITS
(As of December 31, 1976)
Loan or                                                                 US$ Million -/
Credit No.     Year   Borrower         Purpose                      (Net of Cancellation)
BANK    IDA    Undisbursed
38 Loans/                                                     1,032.5
40 Credits fully disbursed                                             2,213.9
614-IN         1969   India      Tarai Seeds                     13.0     -            3.8
203-IN         1970   India      Punjab Agricultural Credit       -       27.5        10.7
226-IN         1971   India      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Cr. -        24.4         3.3
242-IN         1971   India      Power Transmission II            -       75.0        19.4
249-IN         1971   India      Haryana Agricultural Credit      -       25.0         0.1
250-IN         1971   India      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit   -       35.0         5.8
264-IN         1971   India      Cochin II Fertilizer             -       20.0         1.0
267-IN         1971   India      Wheat Storage                    -        5.0         3.7
789-IN         1971   ICICI      Industry DFC IX                 59.0     -            2.5
278-IN         1972   India      Mysore Agricultural Credit       -       40.0         5.6
294-IN         1972   India      Bihar Agricultural Markets       -       14.0        11.6
312-IN         1972   India      Population                       -       21.2        10.3
342-IN         1972   India      Education                       -        12.0        11.4
356-IN         1972   India      IDBI                            -        25.0        16.4
377-IN         1973   India      Power Transmission III          -        85.0        49.8
378-IN         1973   India      Mysore Agricultural Markets     -         8.0         7.6
902-IN         1973   ICICI      Industry DFC X                  70.0     -           10.2
390-IN         1973   India      Bombay Water Supply              -       55.0        43.4
391-IN         1973   India      Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Cr. -        33.0         2.9
392-IN         1973   India      Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Cr.   -       38.0        18.0
403-IN         1973   India      Telecommunications V             -       80.0        25.8
427-IN         1973   India      Calcutta Urban Development       -       35.0        18.5
440-IN         1973   India      Bihar Agricultural Credit        -       32.0        20.2
456-IN         1974   India      HP Apple Processing & Marketing -        13.0        11.7
481-IN         1974   India      Trombay IV                       -       50.0        28.3
1011-IN         1974   India      Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD         52.0     -           42.4
482-IN         1974   India      Karnataka Dairy                  -       30.0        30.0
502-IN         1974   India      Rajasthan Canal CAD              -       83.0        59.4
520-IN         1974   India      Sindri Fertilizer                -       91.0        51.2
521-IN         1974   India      Rajasthan Dairy                  -       27.7        27.5
522-IN         1974   India      Madhya Pradesh Dairy             -       16.4        16.4
526-IN         1975   India      Drought Prone Areas              -       35.0        32.9
1079-IN         1975   India      IFFCO Fertilizer               109.0     -           94.4
1097-IN         1975   India      Industry DFC XI                100.0     -           75.4
532-IN         1975   India      Godavari Barrage Irrigation      -       45.0        38.1
540-IN         1975   India      ARC Credit                       -       75.0        43.8
541-IN         1975   India      West Bengal Agrc. Dev.           -       34.0        33.5
562-IN         1975   India      Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD     -       24.0        22.1
572-IN         1975   India      Rural Electrification            -       57.0        57.0
582-IN         1975   India      Railways XIII                    -      120.0        56.0
585-IN         1975   India      Uttar Pradesh Water Supply       -       40.0        40.0
598-IN         1975   India      Fertilizer Industry              -      105.0       103.7
604-IN         1975   India      Power Transmission IV            -      150.0       150.0
609-IN         1975   India      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.     -        4.0         4.0
610-IN         1976   India      Integrated Cotton Development    -       18.0        18.0
616-IN         1976   India      Industrial Imports XI            -      200.0        31.4
1251-IN(TW)     1976, India       Andhra Pradesh Irrigation      145.0     -          145.0
1260-IN         1976   India      IDBI II                         40.0     -           40.0
1273-IN         1976   India      National Seed                   25.0     -           25.0
1313-IN         1976   India      Telecommunications VI           80.0     -           71.6
1335-IN         1976   India      Bombay Urban Transport         *25.0     -           25.0
Total                                                         1,750.5  4,112.1
of which has been repaid                                      762.5     22.2
Total now outstanding                                           988.0  4,089.9
Amount sold                                111.5
of which has been repaid              111.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                  988.0  4,089.9
Total undisbursed (including *)                                 510.3  1,140.5     1,650.8
* Not yet effective
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of December 31, 1976)
Fiscal                                              Amount (US$ million)
Year          Company                             Loan      Equity   Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.              1.5        -        1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.               0.9        -        0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                   1.4        -        1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                        0.2        -        0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.            0.7       0.3       1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.             0.8       0.4       1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.           11.8       1.0      12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.               1.0       0.3       1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                  1.0       0.1       1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                   8.6       2.9      11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemnicals Ltd.              15.1       3.8      18.9
1976      Escorts Limited                          6.6        -        6.6
TOTAL                            49.6      8.8       58.4
Less:   Sold                             6.0      1.6        7.6
Repaid                           11.9       -        11.9
Cancelled                         6.2      0.7        6.9
Now Held                         25.5      6.5       32.0
Undisbursed                      10.6       -        10.6



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
I/
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$551 million in FY76 or 62%
of Bank Group commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline
of US$1,640.8 million as of December 31, 1976, corresponds roughly to
commitments over the preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime
which would be expected given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects
in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097    Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. Loan 902-IN is fully committed
and commitments are progressing satisfactorily for Loan 1097-IN. Disburse-
ments under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule. A proposal for a twelfth
loan is under consideration.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds Project; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;
Effective Date: September 12, 1969; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the production, processing and marketing of certified seeds of high yielding
varieties. The corporation is working effectively and has developed an ex-
cellent reputation for quality seed. Expansion of three processing plants
is well under way. Delivery of some equipment in damaged condition, and
retendering, because of poor response for some others, has delayed delivery
schedules necessitating an extension of the Closing Date by one year to
December 31, 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress.
Cr. No. 203    Punjab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit
of June 24, 1970; Effective Date: September 4, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 226    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$24.4 million
credit of January 8, 1971; Effective Date: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 249    Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 278    Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit
of January 7, 1972; Effective Date: September 25, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 391    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 392    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 540    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$75.0 million credit of April 28, 1975;
Effective Date: August 5, 1975; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization
equipment only, all the above agricultural credit projects are similar in



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
structure, being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farm-
ers through credit institutions for such on-farm investments as tractors,
minor irrigation and land-leveling. Disbursement of the minor irrigation
components are on schedule. Tractor procurement was delayed following
changes in both the supply and demand situations after the projects were
originally appraised, which prompted GOI to request that indigenous as well
as imported models should be eligible for IDA financing under these credits.
The Executive Directors approved this request in December 1973 and those
credits which have tractor components have been amended accordingly. Tractor
procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. Credit 540 is a continuation
nationwide of the previous program of agricultural credit projects, which
were confined to individual states. ARDC will continue to act as the
financial intermediary for refinancing agricultural credit.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The Food Corporation of India is making satisfactory progress
in the execution of this project. Piling and foundation work is nearly com-
pleted. Silo construction has begun and staff training is in progress.
Cr. No. 45.6   Himachal Pradesh Apple Processng and Marketing Project;
US$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading and
packing centers, cold storages, a juice processing plant, road improvements
and cableways. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. A June 1975 review mission recommended actions to
bring the project in line with managerial and technical capabilities and to
incorporate consultants' recommendations for modifying the cold storage
component. A recent review mission found a satisfactory improvement in the
prospects for successful project implementation. Disbursements should be
completed by the Closing Date.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Prolect; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1977
Material supply problems which delayed the start of this project
have been resolved and physical achievements were at record levels during
fiscal year 1976. However, to cover the delivery and installation of im-
ported transmission and switching equipment, the closing date was extended
by one year to December 31, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Cr. No. 242    Power Transmission II Project; US$75.0 million credit of
May 3, 1971; Effective Date: July 29, 1971; Closing Date:
March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9,, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Power Transmission II suffered initial delays because of problems
associated with the preparations for international bidding and the analysis
of a very large number of bids involved. All contracts have now been awarded.
Due to variations in exchange rates, an undisbursed balance of about US$2
million, by the Closing Date, is likely. For Power Transmission III, vir-
tually all equipment has been ordered; there will be a substantial cost
overrun due to international price increases, part of which is being met
from Power Transmission IV. For power Transmission IV, bids for most of
the equipment have been invited.
Cr. No. 264    Cochin II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million credit of
July 30, 1971; Effective Date: December 2, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079    IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1979
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is being commisssioned, about 31
months behind the appraisal estimate. Progress on the Trombay IV project has
been good although project completion may be delayed by about four months
because of longer than expected delivery times for critical equipment.
Engineering design and procurement for the Sindri project are proceeding on



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
schedule. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a
change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in completion of
engineering contracts. The project is now progressing satisfactorily based on
naphtha as feedstock. Site work has begun, process- and time-critical equip-
ment is being ordered, and engineering work is well under way. Credit 598-IN
is designed to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer production
capacity; implementation is now underway.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in
Bihar was delayed due to legal challenges arising out of the state's acqui-
sition of land for market sites; however, these difficulties have been satis-
factorily resolved. Construction of markets is well advanced and a number
have opened for business. Progress under the Karnataka project is much less
satisfactory, however, largely due to deficiencies in market planning, design
and construction. These problems and remedial actions have been brought to
the attention of the Statbe and Central Government. The project is being mon-
itored closely to try and bring about the necessary improvements in implemen-
tation.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. Initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointments of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
have been approved, and construction has started in Assam and is scheduled
to start in Bihar by mid 1977. Disbursement which has been slow because
of initial delays should accelerate now that construction and equipment
procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The first IDBI Project (Cr. 356) had a slow start mainly due to
institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.
However, the credit is now fully committed. In order to continue Bank
Group's involvement in assisting small and medium scale industries, the
second operation (Ln. 1260) was approved on June 10, 1976.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appointment of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain project components. The project has been
redefined and rephased to fit the financing available from the Credit, local
loans and bonds, and internal cash generation of the project entity. The
revised cost estimates for the implementation period 1975/76 to 1979/80
amount to US$266 million equivalent excluding interest during construction.
All major contracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been
awarded. This is expected to considerably speed up disbursements which
has been slow. Financial performance of the project entity during 1975/76
was satisfactory, and major rate increases from April 1, 1976 should ensure
continuing financial viability of the project entity.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
of February 24, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
This credit was signed *on February 24, 1976, and became effective
on April 1, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Following considerable increases in project costs, GOI and IDA
finalized a project redefinition in April 1976, to accommodate the project
to funding available. It is now expected to be substantially completed by
March 1979. Agreements have been reached on consultants services and
technical assistance, as provided for under the project.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project;; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project which got off to a
slow start has begun to show improvement under new management appointed
recently. Farmer response has been good and about 250 dairy cooperatives
with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. Two Dairy
Unions have been established. Close supervision is being maintained. In
Madhya Pradesh have been good progress has been made. About 110 new dairy
cooperatives societies have been established. Detailed design studies for
plant construction are complete. Technical services investments are being
made. Contracts have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan
project is also doing well. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent
progress has been made in organizing the servicing of nearly 350 dairy coop-
eratives at the village level. Plant-designs are ready, and procurement is
to start soon. KDDC decision to procure plant equipment jointly with RDDC
and MPDDC on the same tender would lead to a recovery of considerable time
lost earlier.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects are generally proceeding satisfactorily. In par-
ticular, agricultural extension has made remarkable progress.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date:   August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project became effective on July 31, 1975. Successful reor-
ganization of agricultural extension services has been a major achievement,
but preparations for lending operations have been slow mainly due to poor
coordination of project agencies. IDA and the government of West Bengal
have agreed on measures to improve coordination and on a timetable covering
a range of project activities. Progress with preliminaries for procurement
of equipment, markets construction and riverlift completions are satis-
factory.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Progress varies among components but overall is satisfactory.
Expenditure to date is less than anticipated but is reasonable because
price inflation has been much less than expected. Disbursement perform-
ance is poor and the Borrower has been requested to expedite claims.
Greater attention is now being paid to data collection to measure project
performance. This is essential since several components are innovative.
The Systems Research Institute of Poona has been contracted to design an
information system to facilitate monitoring and evaluation.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Eleven states have now fulfilled the conditions of eligibility for
on-lending under this project [compared with six at the time of appraisal].
The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the need to adapt
specifications and tender documents to international competitive bidding
procedures, but these problems have been overcome. As of September 1976,
orders had been placed for 60 approved rural electrification schemes, and
tenders had been invited or were in the course of preparation for others.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1976; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
The project is intended to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program from April 1, 1975,
through March 31, 1977. Since the approval of the project, increased pro-
duction in steel products in India and further developments in IR's indigen-
ization program have resulted in a less than anticipated foreign exchange
requirement. It is expected, therefore, that of a total Credit of US$110
million, some US$30-40 million may be undisbursed at the end of the current
project period. During the year 1975/76, IR carried 223 million tons of
freight traffic, 6% more than forecasted. The project is being implemented
satsifactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project had a slow start due to delays in preparation of techni-
cal reports for regional and local water authorities. The technical reports
for about a third of the project have now been finalized and construction
works started in October 1976, about one year behind schedule. All consul-
tants for engineering, organization, management and accounting services for
the Jal Nigam (Water Supply Development Corporation) and the Jal Sansthans
(water authorities) have been engaged. Significant institutional develop-
ment can be expected only after the consultants submit their final recommenda-
tions. The project is expected to be completed by March 1980, approximately
9 months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Cr. No. 610     Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)      Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Ln. No. 1313    Sixth Telecommunications Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 21, 1977 (expected);
Closing Date: June 30, 1980



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:          India, acting by its President.
BENEFICIARIES:     State of Kerala, Kerala Agricultural University (KAU),
Central Plantation Crop Research Institute (CPCRI),
Cooperative Rubber Marketing Societies (CRMS), Kerala
Rubber Marketing Federation (KRMF), Indian Rubber
Board (IRB), Plantation Corporation of Kerala (PCK),
Kerala State Electricity Board (SEB), and Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC).
AMOUNT:            US$30 million equivalent.
TERMS:             Standard
RELENDING TERMS:  GOI to IRB and CPCRI, and to the State of Kerala for
allocation to other agencies (KAU, SADU).
Financing in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for development assistance to the State.
GOI to ARDC to refinance loans by lending banks for
smallholder development, energization of irrigation
pumps, cashew development and rubber processing
facilities.
(a) For ARDC refinancing for up to nine years:
(i) Annual interest rate of 6.75% minimum,
less 0.25% for prompt payment;
(ii) Repayment at the end of nine years.
(b) For ARDC refinancing for more than nine and up
to 15 years:
(i) Annual interest rate of 7.25% minimum,
less 0.25% for prompt payment;
(ii) Repayment at the end of 15 years; and,
(c) GOI to carry exchange risk.



ANNEX III
Page 2
ARDC to Participating Banks
(i) Annual interest rate of not less than 7.5%
to the lending banks;
(ii) Installment repayments to coincide with
agreed collection dates from ultimate bor-
rowers; and
(iii) Refinancing by loans not exceeding 90% of
individual loans for minor irrigation and
not exceeding 80% of loans for other pur-
poses.
Participating Banks to Farmers, KSEB, PCK, CRMS and KRMF.
A loan ceiling of 85 to 95% of investment costs will be
financed at an annual interest rate of not less than 10.5%.
The repayment period will be based on the earning capacity
of the investment but not exceeding 15 years from the
date of each withdrawal.
Project
Description:     The project would improve the productivity of tree crops
agriculture, and consequently improve the economic situ-
ation of smallholder farmers. It would cover new planting
and rehabilitation of coconut with systematic intercropping;
pepper rehabilitation; cashew development; establishment
of seed gardens; and processing of smallholders rubber.
Support to smallholders for agricultural development is
provided mainly in the form of long-term institutional
credit and special extension services. Other support
services included are research, technical assistance and
training.



ANNEX III
Page 3
Estimated Cost:                                       (US$ million)
Local     Foreign      Total
Smallholder Development
On-Farm Costs
Coconut New Plantings         2.9        0.4         3.3
Coconut Rehabilitation       14.0        1.5        15.5
Pepper Rehabilitation         8.6        0.9         9.5
Irrigation                    5.9        0.7        6.6
Sub-total               31.4        3.5       34.9
Electric Reticulation
(for irrigation pumps)        2.9        1.0        3.9
Seeds Garden                  1.1        0.1         1.2
Extension Services and
Project Coordination         3.7        0.2         3.9
Cashew Development            1.7        0.1         1.8
Agricultural Research         0.7        0.6         1.3
Rubber Processing             2.3        2.3         4.6
TOTAL BASE COSTS          43.8        7.8       51.6
(subject to Contingencies)
Contingencies
- Physical                    1.6        0.3         1.9
- Price (and rounding)       13.1        2.4        15.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
(including Contingencies)    58.5       10.5       69.0
Financing Plan:                                        (US$ million)
Local     Foreign      Total
IDA                          20.0       10.0         30.0
Local Sources
GOI & GOK                    7.0         -           7.0
ARDC/Participating Banks    25.5         -          25.5
CRMS, KSEB and PCK           1.8                     1.8
Smallholders                 4.7                     4.7
Total:                 59.0       10.0         69.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                              (US$ million)
FY78  FY79  FY80   FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85
Annual       1.2   2.8    5.0   6.2   6.0   4.4    3.0   1.4
Cumulative   1.2   4.0    9.0  15.2  21.2  25.6   28.6  30.0



ANNEX III
Page 4
Procurement
Arrangements:   Equipment for new crumb rubber factories (US$2.2 mil-
lion) would be procured by international competitive
bidding in accordance with IDA Guidelines. Contracts
valued at US$100,000 or more for equipment for the ex-
pansion of Palai crumb rubber factory, farm equipment,
vehicles, laboratory and office supplies and equipment
(US$3.1 million) would also be awarded under international
competitive bidding. In most cases, however, contracts
would not be amenable to bulking into groups of US$100,000
or more because individual items are small and scattered
geographically and over time. These would be awarded in
accordance with local procurement procedures in which
competition is assured by adequate representation of local
suppliers and local agents of foreign suppliers. Civil
works contracts (US$4.8 million) would be let under local
competitive bidding procedures, which are satisfactory.
International competitive bidding would not be practical
for civil works because of their small size, scattered
locations and a long implementation period. Domestic bid-
ders would receive a 15% margin of preference or the pre-
vailing customs duty (if lower) on items procured under
international competitive bidding. Tender documents and
bid evaluations for all contracts in excess of US$200,000
would require prior approval of IDA.
As is usual in the case of agricultural credit operations,
international competitive bidding procedures would not be
suitable for procurement financed by loans to smallholders
(US$34.9 million) to purchase farm development inputs.
These loans would be advanced to about 75,000 farmers in
small amounts and the operation would be spread over seven
years. On-farm development for cashew and seed gardens
(US$1.1 million) would be carried out over a seven-year
period by State agencies on force account. Consultants'
services (US$0.5 million) would be engaged in accordance
with IDA Guidelines. The balance of the project cost
(US$5.0 million, excluding contingencies) would consist
of land, staff and related expenditures not involving
procurement.
Technical
Assistance:      Consultants for 18 man-months would be provided to assist
Central Plantation Crops Research Institute in the fields
of Nematology, Pathology and Microbiology research.
Consultants for 27 man-months would be provided to assist
in the establishment of the crumb rubber factories. In
addition, services of a crumb rubber processing specialist
would be obtained for a total of 12 man-months to visit
Kerala periodically and advise Indian Rubber Board.



ANNEX III
Page 5
Rates of Return: The weighted average economic rate of return for the
whole project is 30%.
Appraisal Report: No. 1325a-IN, dated January 25, 1977.






ANNEX IV
Page 1
INDIA , KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About two years.
(b)   The agency which has prepared the project
Goverpment of Kerala (GOK), Kerala Agricultural
University, Central Plantation Crops Research
Ipstitute and the Indian Rubber Board.
(c)   Date of first presentation to the Bank, and date
of the"first Bank mission to consider the project
The project was first discussed between the Govern-
ment and the Bank in February/March 1974. The first
Bank m~ission was FAO/IBRD Cooperative program iden-
tification mission in May/June 1974.
(d)   Date of departure of appraisal mission
May 22, 1976.
(e)   Date of completion of negotiation
December 29, 1976.
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness
May 1977,
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)   Central Plantation Crops Research Institute to employ
technical consultants to assist it in carrying out
agricultur4l research (para 41).



ANNEX IV
Page 2
(b)   Indian Rubber Board (IRB) to employ consultants to be
responsible for planning, designing and supervising the
construction and commissioning of the crumb rubber
processing factories (Condition of Disbursement,
para 41).
(c)   IRB to employ conqultants to perform advisory services
needed for the operation of the crumb rubber processing
factories (para 41).
(d)   Kerala to establish, by September 30, 1977, monitoring
and evaluation arrangements satisfactory to the
Association to continuously monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project (para 44).
(e)   Kerala to transfer KDOA's cashew plantation in Cannanore
districts and about 1500 ha of suitable land for cashew
cultivation to Plantation Corporation of Kerala
(Condition of Disbursement, para 37).
(f)   Kerala to provide adequate land suitable for seed
gardens (Condition of Disbursement, para 39).
(g)   Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation to
prepare a project banking plan for strengthening rural
banking system (Condition of Effectiveness, para 43).



IBRD 12410
r0SS To Mangalor.             750                         7170            OCTOBER 1976
INDIA
KERALA
M-njeswT Me r r           AGRICULTURAL          DEVELOPMENT          PROJECT
Kasorogod\t/ \.r
fR\                                              .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
\ gosrT. M.-.>
B.k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
N<NANORE->KARNAT                             KA 
510                                                     NADU            110RN TAK
T.m yT                            ,,
Town                                                 T Id_inaltp.
BodogoorC r \ \o                           i
The ~ ~  ~    ~    i Ooo,ido,ie eiioi    Gudoilurpdono
i\iply endoneemrn oe e e O i      TiA   M   I L
-110                                                     TolurTtpvaa  C....I.,  N A D U   1r
inhud ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    bS, Book end iooffOeieo;
\'                      =; AppronimataC irLineT. C-b.t
Ponnonl  \  zw  ;h= QU  L  Ponoon
10 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~9
* Agriculturol Reseacrc   Center5s5 t hot u   h
Roods               0unmuoO  \/             Totmnoo
O   Cities and Towns                 Secu                    vT. Ud-mcp.t
(3   District Capitals               ;Prgluh     Hc_        j
District Bou,,dories and Name5sr m i k o  oo S ; 
- - State B.undo,.e,        rncceg   A g m h (Meuct 
-10    ~~~~~International Boundaries  MT.c o     D  e    c  i o                   0
BBol,            Ph.  o K,C1ty
_       (5&  mr    %3X~~~~~~~Th.ducp.o   / 
\ Y \\\L  ,   ~~OV-zh.th.p .
I  N  0  I  A  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!A~~~~.~~~BURMA~~~~ ~  K u-.  T   Md..
->~~~~~~~~~~~~ BA OF \EGA                 Koo \      k
ILOME TERS
* )) SvX C HIANrA                760UI hnrrc
>~~~~p by XNkDEH,\ /,
S-  \\\   { r/   L                         K<~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~  ~    ~~~~~~~~~~n.;Ih l koc 
n  _   l     0    25    50    75   100       \    \               /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ai,
>  t   )  ga r  nvf tSf AfGr1/   d   |   |   1   |   v   \    l      /K.y
AREA \t~~~~ H  KILMTR N A,                                         T. M.d...
7d                717~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hncl.
PAISA



