                                            Document of
                                      The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFlCIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                   Repcrrt No. 7 6 8 3




                               PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT




                                          I N D I A




                     KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                     (CREDIT 6 8 0 - I N )




                                     MARCH 31, 1989




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


KAU    - Agricultural University of Kerala
CB     - Commercial Banks
CPCRI  - Central Plantation Crops Research Institute
CPD    - Cashew Project Department
CRMS   - Cooperative Rubber Marketing Societies
GOI   -  Government of India
GOK    - Government of Kerala
ICAR   - Indian Council of Agricultural Research
IRB    - Indian Rubber Board
KDOA   - Kerala Department of Agriculture
KRMF   - Kerala State Rubber Marketing Federation
KSCADB - Kerala State Cooperative Agricultural Development Bank
KSCB   - Kerala State Cooperative Bank
KSEB   - Kerala State Electricity Board
NABARD - National Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development
PCC    - Project Coordination Committee
PCK    - Plantation Corporation, Kerala
PCR    - Project Completion Report
SADU   - Special Agricultural Development Unit
SAR    - Staff Appraisal Report

                                                                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                            THE WORLD BANK
                                          Wash~ngton.D.C. 20433
                                                    U.S.A.




                                                                                   March 31, 1989




                  MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT



SUBJECT:          Project Completion Report on India Kerala
                  Agricultural Development Project (Credit 680-IN)




                  Attached, for information, is a                   copy of a report e n t i t l e d
"Project Completion Report                 on     India    Kerala Agricultural Development
Project        (Credit        680-IN)"     prepared       by    FAO/World Bank         Cooperative
Program.         Full evaluation of            t h i s  project     has    not been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department.




Attachment




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                                                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                      INDIA

                 KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT P-

                                        Project Completion Report

                                              Table of Contents


                                                                                               Page No .

               PREFACE        .............................................                         i
               BASIC DATA SHEET           ....................................                     ii
               EVALUATION SUMMARY           ..................................                   iii
               OVERVIEW        ............................................                         v

        I .    INTRODUCTION          ........................................                       1

       I1 .    PROJECT IDENTIFICATION. PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL                        ...         2
                   Identification and Preparation                ....................               2
                   Project Appraisal          .................................                     2

     I11  .    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION              ..............................                   3
                   Start-up       ..........................................                        3
                   Project Changes After Appraisal                 ...................              3
                   Implementation Schedule             ...........................                  5
                   Implementation of Project Components                   ..............            5
                   Provision of Minor Irrigation Facilities and
                      Irrigation of Coconuts            ..........................                  6
                   Agricultural Research            .............................                   8
                   Extension Services           ................................                    8
                   Credit Component          ..................................                     9
                   Project Cost         ......................................                     10
                   Project Financing           .................................                   10
                   Loan Allocation and Disbursement                 ..................             11

       IV  .    INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT                     ...........          12
                   Project Coordination            ..............................                  12
                   Implementing Agencies            .............................                  12
                   Lending Institutions            ..............................                  14
                   Accounting and Reporting             ..........................                 14

        V  .    PROJECT IMPACT          ......................................                     15
                   Agricultural Impact           ...............................                   15
                   Other Impact         ......................................                     16
                   Incomes and Financial Results                .....................              16
                   Economic Re-evaluation            .............................                 19

       VI  .   WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE              ..............................                  21
                   Project Design and Appraisal                ......................              21
                   Supervision         .......................................                     21

     VII  .    SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS              .............................                  21
                   Lessons Learned         ...................................                     22


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

TABLES

    Sunmrary: Project Target and Achievement
    Project Expenditures
    Comparison Between Appraisal Cost Estimates and Actual Costs
    Comparison Between Appraisal Estimate and Actual Unit Cost
    Cumulative Disbursements
    Comparison Between Appraisal and Actual Physical Achievements
    Loans Recommended, Approved and Disbursed (FY 1978179 - July 1986)
    Total Loans Disbursed as of July 1986 by Banks
    Interest Rates
    Refinancing by NABARD as of July 1986
    Yields of Coconuts - SAR and PCR Comparisons
    Yields of Cocoa, Pepper, Cashew - SAR and PCR Comparison
    Coconut Production
    Pepper, Cocoa, Banana, Tapioca, Milk Production
    Rubber and Cashew Production
    Seed Garden - Production of Planting Materials
    Financial Prices of Outputs Used in Financial and Economic
    Calculations
    Coconut New Planting (With Irrigation)  -1 ha Model
    Coconut New Planting (With Irrigation), Interplanting Bananas  - 1 ha
    Coconut New Planting (Without Irrigation) - 0.5 ha Model
    Coconut Rehabilitation (With Irrigation), Cocoa Interplanted  - 1 ha
    Mode1
    Coconut Rehabilitation (With Irrigation), Banana Interplanted  - 1 ha
    Mode1
    Coconut Rehabilitation (With Irrigation), Fodder Interplanting and
    Dairy  -1 ha Model
    Coconut Rehabilitation (Without Irrigation)  -0.5 ha Model
    Coconut Rehabilitation in Disease Affected Areas (Without Irrigation)
    Pepper Rehabilitation
    Cashew, New Planting  --1
                            1 ha Model
                             ha Model
    Cashew Rehabilitation  -1 ha Model
    Coconut Rehabilitation (With Irrigation). Capital and Operating Costs
     -Cocoa (0.8 ha)
    Coconut New Planting/Rehabilitatfon (With Irrigation), Capital and
    Operating Costs - Banana Interplanting (1 ha)
    Coconut Rehabilitation (Without Irrigation), Capital and Operating
    Costs  -Garden Crops (Tapioca) (1 ha)
    Capital and Operating Costs for 0.1 ha Fodder and One Milk Cow in
    Coconut Rehabilitation Disease-Affected Areas (Rainfed)
    Sununary of Financial Prices of Outputs and Inputs (1986 Prices)
    Cash Flow  -Unirrigated Coconut New Planting with Garden Crops (0.5
    ha
    Cash Flow  - Irrigated Coconut New Planting with Garden Crops (1 ha
    Mode1)
    Cash Flow  - Irrigated Coconut New Planting with Interplanted Banana (1
     ha Model
    Cash Flow * Unirrigated Coconut Rehabilitation with Garden Crops (0.5
    ha
     Cash Flow -Unirrigated Coconut Rehabilitation in   is ease-~ffected
    Areas with Fodder and Dairy (0.2 ha Model)
    Cash Flow  - Irrigated Coconut Rehabilitation Interplanted with Cocoa
     (1 ha Model)

    Cash Flow  - Irrigated Coconut Rehabilitation Interplanted with Banana
     (1 ha Model)
    Cash Flow - Irrigated Coconut Rehabilitation with Fodder and Dairy (1
    ha
    Cash Flow - Pepper Rehabilitat.ion
    Operating Income of the Plantation Corporation of Kerala
    Cash Flow  - Plantation Corporation of Kerala
    Financial Analysis - Plantation Corporation of Kerala
    Operating Income of the Seed Garden
    Financial Analysis - Seed Garden
    Operating Income of the Crumb Rubber Factories
    Operating Income of 10-Ton Crumb Rubber Factory
    Cash Flow in Palai, Kozhikode and Kanjirapally Factories
    Cash Flow for a Typical 10-Ton Crumb Rubber Factory
    Financial Analysis  - 6 Crumb Rubber Factories
    Summary of Economic Prices of Outputs and Inputs
    Economic Price of Copra
    Economic Price Structures (Projected 1990 in 1986 Constant Prices)
    Economic Analysis  - Irrigated Coconut New Planting
    Economic Analysis - Unirrigated Coconut New Planting
    Economic Analysis - Irrigated Coconut Rehabilitation
    Economic Analysis  - Unirrigated Coconut Rehabilitation
    Economic Analysis  - Pepper Rehabilitation
    Economic Analysis - Smallholder Component
    Economic Analysis  - Cashew Development
    Economic Analysis - 6 Crumb Rubber Factories
    Economic Analysis - Whole Project


MAP 1:
   -    Location of Project Areas

CHART 1: Present General Organization Structure


                                         I N D I A

               KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Credit 680-IN)

                               PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT



                                        Preface



            This Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews the implementation of
the Kerala Agricultural Development Project i n India f o r which Credit
680-IN i n the amount of USS30 million was approved on February 17, 1977.
The c r e d i t was closed i n March 31, 1986 one year l a t e r than scheduled and
USS0.5 million the undisbursed portion of the c r e d i t was cancelled.

             The PCR was prepared by the FAOICP and was revised i n certain
respects a f t e r consultation with Asia Region s t a f f .    The overview, prepared
by Asia Region S t a f f , i s based on the PCR, the Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 1325a-IN, dated January 25, 1977) President's Report (No. P1953 of
January 19771, Development Credit Agreement, dated April 1 , 1977, and on
supervision mission reports.        There has been no follow on project.

             The draft report was sent t o the ~ d r r o w e ron January 13, 1989 for
comments; however, no comments were received.




                                                  -
                                                  I N D I A

                KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CR.              680-IN)

                                    PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                                           Evaluation Sumary


Introduction

1.            The Kerala Agricultural Development project was prepared i n 1975
by the Government of Kerala (GOK) with the assistance of an FAOlCP mission,
the World Bank Resident Mission i n New Delhi, and Bank headquarters s t a f f .
The project was approved i n February 1977 and was designed t o improve the
economic s t a t u s of smallholder farmers and the productivity of major
foreign exchange earning               t r e e crops and pepper.  Kerala State accounts f o r
most of India's production of coconut, cashew, rubber and pepper.

Project Objectives

2.            The project was appraised i n 1976 and comprised:                ( a ) new
planting, rehabilitating, and improving intercropping, of both irrigated
and non-irrigated coconut over 35,000 ha.; (b) new planting and
rehabilitation of pepper, over 10,000 ha.; ( c ) establishing seed gardens
over 435 ha.; (dl new planting and rehabilitation of cashew over 3,750 ha.;
(el establishing 9 crumb rubber factories, expanding an existing factory,
and improving and developing marketing infrastructure; ( f ) strengthening
agricultural research; and (g) providing improved extension services and
investment c r e d i t f a c i l i t i e s .   The project had a s i t s main objective t o
improve the productivity of major foreign exchange earning t r e e crops and
pepper with emphasis on improving the economic status of some 75,000 farm
families, the majority of whom belonged t o the poorest segment of the
population.

3.             Project implementation was the responsibility of the Government of
Kerala and the Agricultural Refinancing and Development Corporation ( f o r
the c r e d i t component).       The IDA c r e d i t became effective on June 6, 1977.
Total project costs were estimated a t USS69.0 million, including the IDA
c r e d i t of USS30.0 million.

Implementation Experience and Project Results

4 .            The implementation schedule estimated a t appraisal was optimistic
for such a complex project.                  Recruitment of suitable s t a f f and adminis-
t r a t i v e delays resulted i n a lag i n the implementation schedule of about 18
months, a s a r e s u l t of which the project period was extended by one year.
The c r e d i t closed on September 30, 1986, 18 months l a t e r than anticipated
a t appraisal.

  5.       At project completion, total project cost was Rs 740.0 million
  (USS72.5 million) compared with appraisal estimates of Rs 619 million
- (USS69.0 million), a 20% cost overrun in rupee terms. At full development
  project costs are expected to amount to Rs 984 million (USS92.5 million),
  an overrun of 59% in rupee terms. The devaluation of the rupee accounted
  for the lower level of costs in US dollar terms, where cost overruns were
  5 % at project completion and 34% at full development, respectively.


  6.        The PCR notes that the project has been fairly successful in
  meeting its broad goals. The most successful component by far proved to be
  rehabilitated pepper, with rehabilitated irrigated coconut proving to be
  successful also, but to a lesser extent. Rehabilitated pepper accounted in
  the main for the project's favorable economic rate of return of 24.5%,
  which compares with 29.5% for the project as a whole, estimated at
  appraisal, and indicates the importance of including more than one main
  crop for development in the project.

  7 .      At full development total production from rehabilitated coconut is
  expected to meet the SAR targets and for new planted coconut to exceed the
  SAR target by 75X. Pepper production is expected to be approximately
  double that estimated in the SAR. Also at full development the reestimated
  net incomes of coconut farmers are expected to be almost double, and for
  rehabilitated pepper farmers almost five times the net incomes estimated at
  appraisal.

  Issues and Lessons

  8.       A project having a large number of components and including
  recruitment of staff of different disciplines, land acquisition, civil
  works, construction, etc., all of which entail following prescribed
  government procedures, is likely to face coordination problems and delays
  during implementation. In this respect the SAR appears to have been
  optimistic. It would therefore seem essential at the time of appraisal to
  determine more realistically, what can be achieved during the project
  period, and to limit project complexity and problems of coordination, by
  keeping the number of components and line agencies responsible for
  implementation of a manageable number.

  9.        It would seem in retrospect that if the project had concentrated
  on the smallholder program, including the seed garden, research program and
  credit component, management would have been able to concentrate its
  efforts, and would possibly have achieved even better results. Where
  private sector farmers (backed by sound technical advice and availability
  of credit), judged the technical programs satisfactory and the returns
  reasonable, as with rehabilitated pepper and rehabilitated irrigated
  coconut, the project was successful and sustainable. The other components,
  largely subject to public sector management have not progressed nearly as
  well from an implementation or sustainability viewpoint.

                                                     I N D I A

             KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CR.                   680-IN)

                                      PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                                                 IDA Overview



Introduction

1.       The original Project Completion Report (PCR) for the above project
was prepared by FAOlWorld Bank Cooperative Programme (FAOICP). The original
PCR was subsequently amended by the Bank based on additional information
supplied by FAOlCP t o include i n t e r a l i a further c l a r i f i c a t i o n on various
aspects of the the PCR, and information on the agricultural credit
component.      The IDA overview adds t o the PCR by summarizing the s a l i e n t
components, and the findings and lessons, of t h i s complex project.

2.       The FAOlCP team discussed the conclusions i n the PCR with the
authorities concerned and copies of the original PCR were sent t o the
Government of India, but no comments were invited or were received from the
Government  .

3.        The PCR contains a conclusions chapter.                     A brief summary on
project background, implementation experience and project results as well
as on issues and lessons t o be learned i s presented below.

Project Objectives

4 .       The project was designed t o increase smallholder production of
coconut, pepper, food crops, and cashew and improve the quality of rubber.
The main project a c t i v i t i e s and components were:

    ( a ) new planting of high yielding v a r i e t i e s of coconut            -- 5,000 ha i n
          Cannanore, Kozhikode and Malappuram d i s t r i c t s , and providing minor
          i r r i g a t i o n f a c i l i t i e s -- 1,000 ha i n newly planted areas;

    (b)   rehabilitation coconut                   -- 30,000 ha i n Cannanore, Kozhikode,
         Malappuram and Trivandrum d i s t r i c t s , and providing minor
          i r r i g a t i o n f a c i l i t i e s -- 7,500 ha i n these areas;

    ( c ) improving intercropping i n coconut areas -- 26,500 ha of various
          garden crops without i r r i g a t i o n ; and about 3,000 ha of cocoa,
          3.000 ha of fodder f o r dairy c a t t l e and 2,500 ha of other crops
         with i r r i g a t i o n ;

    (d)   rehabilitating and planting of new pepper                    -- 10,000 ha i n
         Cannanore, Idukki and Kottayam d i s t r i c t s ;

    ( e ) establishing seed gardens f o r coconut, cashew, cocoa, pepper and
          other spices ;

    (f) rehabilitating cashew plantations  -- 2,280 ha and planting of new
         cashew -- 1,470 ha in Cannanore districts as well as establishing
         a cashew apple processing pilot plant;

    (g) establishing 9 crumb rubber factories and expanding 1 existing
         factory, improving and developing marketing and marketing
         infrastructure:

    (h) strengthening agriculture research, including training and
         technical assistance; and

    (i) providing improved extension services and investment credit
         facilities.

Implementation Experience

Project Phasing

5 .     Although apparently conservative assumptions were made in the SAR
in regard to Government of Kerala's (GOK) capacity to arrange for the
recruitment and training of managerial and extension staff of appropriate
caliber and in adequate numbers, the PCR finds that the project started
slowly due mainly to manpower constraints and administrative delays. As a
result the initial planting season (1977178) was lost and project
implementation subsequently lagged about 18 months behind appraisal
targets, resulting in the project implementation period being extended by
one year, to March 1986.

Financia1

6.      Project cost during implementation amounted to Rupees 740 million
and exceeded the appraisal estimate of Rs 619 million by 20%. At full
development project cost is estimated to amount to Rs 984 million,
resulting in an overrun of about 59% compared with appraisal. Factors
contributing to cost overruns other than implementation delays, include the
considerable increases in irrigated coconut development areas, and price
escalation in construction costs, particularly labor, cement and steel.

Organization and Management

7.       The complexity of the project required a considerable degree of
coordination between government ministries and participating institutions.
The PCR found that the Project Coordinating Committee (PCC), which stood at
the apex of the organization structure, did not have adequate staff support
and was unable to solve major problems promptly and satisfactorily.  The
Special Agricultural Development Unit (SADU), which had specific
responsibility for smallholder development performed reasonably well in the
circumstances. Management of the Cashew Project Department, set up within
the Kerala Plantation Corporation, was considered weak, and effective field
supervision by this unit was lacking. The Rubber Processing Department
established in 1977 played only an advisory role and had no effective
control over Kerala Rubber Marketing Federation (KRMF) or the Cooperative
Rubber Marketing Societies (CRMS) activities. KRMF suffered frequent
changes of senior management personnel, and experienced both managerial and
financial problems which disrupted project implementation. CRMS, the

Research Institutions, Kerala State Electricity Board and the National Bank
for Agricultural and Rural Development (NABARD) (and commercial banks which
participated in the project's agricultural credit schemes) performed
satisfactorily.

Agricultural Performance

8.       Excellent performance of pepper rehabilitation, and good
performance of new planting of coconut (both irrigated and unirrigated),
and irrigated coconut (both irrigated and unirrigated), and irrigated
coconut rehabilitation, provided the basis for the success of the project.

Pepper Rehabilitation

9.       Contrary to the expectations in the SAR very little new planting
of pepper was undertaken, however pepper rehabilitation alone produced
remarkable results. Although some question exists as to actual pepper
yields in the pre- and post-project situations, the PCR concludes that with
the doubling of area rehabilitated at 19,842 ha (SAR 10,000 ha) and almost
doubling of output price, the ERR for pepper rehabilitation exceeded 70%.
The overall impact of pepper on the estimated total project ERR of 24.5% is
as a result, significant. More than 80% of total project benefits are
estimated to drive from pepper rehabilitation, as compared with about 25%
estimated at appraisal.

Coconut New Planting

10.      The 7,000 ha planted exceeded SAR expectations by 2,000 ha,
however economic rates of return at between 3-10% were substantially below
appraisal expectations (24-46%) due primarily to cost overruns, and delayed
and lower than expected yields.

Coconut Rehabilitation

11.      15,166 ha of irrigated coconut were rehabilitated, exceeding SAR
expectations by some 7.666 ha, however there was a shortfall of 14,739 ha
in the area of unirrigated coconut, where only 7,761 ha were rehabilitated
compared with the 22,500 ha expected at appraisal.  Economic rates of
return of around 3% were also substantially below appraisal estimates of
15-33% due to cost overruns and delayed and lower than anticipated yields.

12.      Coconut Intercropping under irrigation met with poor farmer
response with only 2,300 ha being planted (SAR 6,000 ha) and only 2,998
cows being distributed (SAR 9,000 cows), however banana intercropping which
was not anticipated at appraisal developed well and 900 ha were planted by
project completion. Intercropping of garden crops under unirrigated
coconut (mainly tapioca), exceeded SAR expectations of 2,000 ha, with some
4,628 ha being planted by project completion.

Seed Garden

13.      Delays in obtaining suitable land, in constructing access roads,
staff quarters and administrative buildings, and in supplying electricity
and irrigation facilities, seriously handicapped development of the seed
garden. At project completion, only 186 ha out of the 435 ha envisaged at

appraisal had been developed, and administrative buildings, staff quarters
and roads were only 90% complete. Only 111 ha of the seed garden had been
provided with irrigation facilities.

Cashew Development

14.      Cashew rehabilitation proceeded according to schedule but new
planting was only completed in 1984. As improved varieties were not
available at the time, ordinary planting materials of local origin were
used. The pilot cashew processing plant proposed at appraisal was not
established, due in part to a lack of managerial expertise and also to
delays in making the decision to proceed.

Rubber Processing Component

15.      At project completion, of the nine new factories and expansion of
an existing factory, only two of the former, and the latter, were
operational. The remaining factories are expected to be operational by
1988. Delays and numerous problems occurred at every stage of this
component. Lack of construction supervision, due to late recruitment of
technical consultants, was an impediment. The three completed factories
operated well below maximum capacity due mainly to power supply problems,
labor strikes, competition from private factories for new materials and low
price incentives. The PCR notes that these problems are expected to be
overcome for the existing and new factories by 1992.

Agricultural Research

16.      The stipulated research programs were carried out satisfactorily
and the 30 posts provided for scientists at appraisal were all filled.

Extension Services

17.      For the greater part of the project period the extension service
faced staffing constraints including unfilled vacancies, high turnover and
poor caliber staff. Many posts were filled on a temporary basis. Field
staff suffered from lack of mobility and hardship allowances, which
resulted in dissatisfaction and high turnover. Inadequate training and the
amount of time spent on identifying potential participants and helping them
apply for credit reduced effective extension efforts. There were clearly
some shortcomings but the PCR concludes that a satisfactory extension
service was established, although extension staff should concentrate on
providing advisory services to farmers rather than spending their time on
non-extension activities. The T&V system of agricultural extension was
introduced in Kerala STate in the early 1980's. With the proposed
broadbasing of extension activities this system should be able to provide
advice to the farmers on agronomic problems relating to pepper and coconut.

Credit Component

18.      Out of the total IDA credit of USS30.0 million, an amount of
USS17.3 million (57.6% of the total) was provided for credit. During
implementation this amount was increased to USAS22.45 million, (76% of the
total IDA credit disbursed). At July 1986, of the total amount disbursed
in local currency for agricultural credit amounting to Rs 520.4 million,

83% was for smallholder development, 9% for Kerala State Electricity Board
(KSEB), 2% for cashew development and 62 for rubber processing factories.
Disbursements for smallholder development and KSEB were 34% above appraisal
estimates and disbursements for rubber processing factories were 122 above
appraisal, however disbursements for cashew development were 37% below
appraisal estimates.  For smallholder development, the lack of a
coordinated and uniform lending policy hindered credit operations as did
the shortages of staff at Banks (and SADU) which resulted in slow loan
processing, particularly in the early years.  Competition from various
Integrated Rural Development Programs subsidy schemes also impacted
adversely on credit demand in the project area, Disbursements of loans for
the cashew development and rubber processing factories suffered long delays
due to slow bank loan processing procedures.

19.      It is too early to judge the effectiveness of the agricultural
credit program.  As longer grace periods have been provided most loan
repayments have not yet fallen due. However, the PCR notes that the
recovery of pepper development loans is satisfactory, but that recovery
difficulties have arisen under coconut development due to low prices.  Of
total loans disbursed under the credit scheme, coconut amounted to Rs 298.9
million (57.4%) and pepper development Rs 133.5 million (25.6%).

Rates of Return

20.      The economic rates of return calculated in the SAR were
satisfactory for all components.  Total project ERR at appraisal was
estimated at 29.5%.  The PCR shows that with the exception of rehabilitated
pepper, the recalculated economic rates of return for project components
are substantially below SAR expectations but that overall, total project
ERR amounted to 24.5%.  Table 64 attached to the PCR shows that most (about
94%) of total project net benefits are d'erived from the smallholder
component.  Table 61 shows that starting in 1986 and until 1989
rehabilitated pepper contributed practically all the net benefits of the
smallholder program.  From 1990 onwards the coconut component collectively
contributed marginally to smallholder net benefits but overall
rehabilitated pepper is by far the major contributor. For the project as a
whole it is estimated that 85X of net benefits are derived from
rehabilitated pepper, 9% from the coconut components and 4% and 2% from
rubber and cashew development respectively.

21.      Very little new pepper was planted.  The high rate of return for
rehabilitated pepper, results not only from a doubling of output prices and
area rehabilitated, but also from increases in yields over those in the
SAR.  Table 12 indicates that not only post-project but pre-project yields
have been revised for PCR purposes. which results in an incremental yield
in the outpost year of 720 kg/ha compared with the 375 kglha estimated at
appraisal.  The PCR provides no explanation for this increase but sates
that yield estimates are based on data provided by SADU, the Evaluation
Unit and interviews with farmers during field visits.   The PCR also makes
clear that it is not possible to quantify with accuracy the yields and
production at full development.  The pepper yields used for PCR purposes
are, approximately, the average of the yields estimated in the SAR for
rehabilitated and new planted pepper combined, as shown in Table 12.

Sustainability

22.              The PCR does not comment on the project's sustaintability.
Nevertheless it can be concluded that i n pepper rehabilitation and
i r r i g a t e d coconut the project's farmers were successful and that there i s
every likelihood that additional farmers w i l l replicate and sustain those
e f f o r t s i n future.      The project focused on the main agricultural a c t i v i t i e s
i n Kerala, and the State Government continues t o place p r i o r i t y on
agriculture.             Steps a r e being taken t o improve agricultural support
services t o increase productivity.

Findings and Lessons

23.              The success of rehabilitated pepper over appraisal estimates and
i t s influence on the project's overall economic rate of return, especially
compared with the other components indicates the d e s i r a b i l i t y of having
more than one main crop f o r development i n a project.

24.              Strong commitment from Government and effective management and
coordination of e s s e n t i a l project a c t i v i t i e s are basic conditions f o r the
success of a complex project.                     Full time officers i n key positions a t major
implementing agencies a r e e s s e n t i a l f o r solving interagency problems during
implementation.

25.              Successful implementation of f i e l d a c t i v i t i e s particularly i n
remote areas i s dependant on the a v a i l a b i l i t y of a corps of well trained
and motivated s t a f f .         Project management should provide leadership a t the
policy and management levels, address problems t o reduce s t a f f turnover,
and provide appropriate incentives f o r s t a f f required t o work i n remote
areas.

26.              Extension s t a f f should concentrate on providing advisory services
t o farmers rather than spending t h e i r time on non-extension a c t i v i t i e s .            I n
areas where both project and T&V s t a f f operate, project management should
ensure coordination, including:                     ( a ) clearly delineating duties and
responsibilities t o avoid duplication of e f f o r t : and ( b ) reducing
d i s p a r i t i e s i n incentives given under the two systems.

2 7 .            As the time required t o manage, i . e . organize, coordinate, and
control a, project during implementation generally increases with i t s
complexity, it i s essential during project preparation and appraisal t o
discern, given a particular environment, what i s really likely t o be
achieved during the project period.                         This assessment should take into
account:            ( a ) a careful review of the l i k e l y response from farmers t o new
production technology and the risks resulting from changes i n market prices
with new crops (e.g., cocoa); (b) c r i t i c a l path (PERT) analysis of the time
needed, i n t e r a l i a :      t o r e c r u i t s t a f f ; t o acquire and develop land; and t o
construct roads and buildings; and ( c ) appropriate adjustments t o the
project size o r scope, t o ensure t h i s i s compatible with the human and
physical resources available and length of project period.

28.               Responsibility f o r coordinating project a c t i v i t i e s should have
included resolving problems such a s farmers being provided a project credit
scheme but preferring other Government schemes offering b e t t e r incentives
levels.          Also, where agricultural c r e d i t is provided by a number of

       financing agencies with different lending policies, ensuring that such
       lending policies and terms, conditions and operating procedures are
       standardized, to ensure efficient and timely loan processing and
-
 .   - supervision.


                                      INDIA

           KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Credit 680-IN)

                            PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                                I   INTRODUCTION


1.01    Keralacovers 11Xof the tot81 areaof India.       In1971 it accounted
for 4% of the total po ulation in India, with a high population density of
                       9
548/h2 (India, 1 8 2 / h ) and an average per capita income of US$28O (India,
Rs 3,500) with considerable unemployment and under-employment.

1.02    When the Kerala Agricultural Development Project was being conceived,
the share of agriculture in the State's CDP had declined from 552 to 522 over
the decade 1962-72.   The area under food grains, mainly rice, covered about
302 of the cropped area and more than 502 of the area devoted to tree crops.
Kerala accounted for most of India's production of pepper (9621, rubbar
(822). coconut (732) and cashew (572) with considerable contribution8 from
Cannanore, Kozhikode and !falapputam, the threa northern, relatively backward
districts of the State.    Tha cultivation of trea crop8 is moatly a
smllholder operation and ia characterized by low yielda, dua to the
widespread use of low yielding vatictier and poor husbandry practices.


           1 1  PROJECT IDENTIPICATIOU, PREPARATION AUD APPRAISAL


Identification and Preparation

2.01    A mission from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Progrrrmna (CP) visited
India in Uay 1974 to aaaist the Agricultural Refinance Corporation, now the
National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Dovalopment (MMAED), in reviewing
its ongoing plantation projects and to identify additional projects for
diversified lending, mainly in South India and particularly in Keta1.o    A
follow-up misaion in Februrrry/Uarch 1975 assisted tha Governments of Kerala
(COK) Karnatab and Tamil Nadu in the preparation of a project proposal.
     ,
Staff from the World Bank'a   officer in Now Delhi and Washington also par-
ticipated in the foramlation of this propo8al.

2.02    Project propoarla for Kerala included8

    (a) rehabilitation of 30,000 hectare8 (ha) of coconut8 of which 5,000 ha
        would be interplanted with cocoa, 6,000 ha of pepper 8nd 1s,000 ha of
        saullholder rubber;

    (b) establisbent of seed garden8 for coconut and cashew nut;

    ( c ) establishment of three block rubber factories and modification of an
          existing factory;

    (d) provision of consultancies for coconut processing and root-wilt
         disease control; and

    (e) training of staff for the rubber processing factories.

In addition, 14,000 ha of new planting of coconuts was to be undertaken in
Karnataka (10,000 ha) and Tamil Nadu (4,000 ha), including the establishment
of coconut seed gardens.

Project Appraisal

2.03     A World Bank appraisal mission visited India in May/June 1976.   It
was then decided to concentrate the project on Kerala (see amp) only, since
project preparation there was in a much more advanced stage than in Karnataka
and Tamil Nadu.   The project as appraised (Appraisal Report No. 1325.-IN,
dated January 25, 1977) intended to increase smrllholder production of
coconut, pepper, food crops and caahew and to improve the quality of rubber.
It comprised the following components:

    (a) new planting of high yielding coconut   - 5,000 ha in Cannmore, Roz-
         hikode and Malappuram districts;

    (b) rehabilitation of 30,000 ha coconuts, including replanting of senile
         and unproductive palms in areas free of root wilt disease in Can-
         nanore, Kozhikode, Malappuram and Trivandrum districts;

    (c) provision of minor irrigation facilities in project coconut areas    -
          1,000 ha in new planting areaa, and 7,500 ha in rehabilitation areas:

    (dl intercropping in coconut areaa   - 26,500 ha of various garden cropa
         without irrigation) about 3,000 ha of cocoa, about 3,000 ha of fodder
          including dirtribution of 9,000 dairy cattle and about 2,500 ha of
         other crops with irrigation)

    (el rehabilitation, including replanting of pepper   - 10,000 ha in Can-
         nanore, Idukki and Kottayrm districts)

    ( f ) establishment of seed gardens for coconut (300 ha),  cashew (50 ha),
          cocoa (20 ha), pepper (35 ha) and other spices (30 ha))

    (g) rehabilitation of a State-owned cashew plantation of 2,280 ha and new
          planting8 of 1,470 ha in Cannanore district, oat.bliahmont of a pilot
          plant for proceasing cashew apple;

    (h) establishment of 10 crumb rubber factories (9 new and 1 expansion),
          each of 10 ton/day capacity, developmant of marketing infrastructure
          (6 godowns, 17 trucks) and improved marketing;

    (i) strengthening of research by the Central Plantation Crops Research
        Institute (CPCRI), Agricultural University Of Kerala (KAU) and Indian
        Rubber Board (IBB),including training and technical assistance; and

    (j) provision of improved extension services and investment credit
        facilities for project participants.

2.04    Activities (a) to (el known as the suullholders' development, were to
be carried out by suull farmers, who were to be provided with investment
credit and extension servicer.

2.05    Recognizing the need for an effective organisation to manage and
successfully implement this complex project, the following institutional
arrangements were nude:

    (a) A Project Coordination Cornittee (PCC) under the chairmanship of the
        Kerala Agricultural Production Coamirrioner (see Chart) war made
        terpon.sible for overall project coordination and monitoring;

    (b) The suullholder component, including seed garden8 and related exten-
        sion support, became the rerponribility of, and war implemented
        through, a new COK adminirtrative entity, the Special Agricultural
        Developawnt Unit (SADU) headed by the Kerala Agricultural Production
                                ,
        Comirrioner;

    (c) Carhew development war undertaken by the Plantation Corporation,
        Kerala (PCK);

    (d) Implementation of the rubber factory component war the responsibility
        of the respective Cooperative Rubber Marketing Societier (CRXS) 'and
        the Kerala State Rubber hrkting Federation (m)        and coordinated
        through the Rubber Procesring Departawnt;

    (el Agricultural rerearch war the joint rerponribility of CPCRI and KAUj
        m d

    (f) IDA funds uore channelled from the Covemwnt of India (COI) to
        NABMD to firmace participating bankr.


                         111.  PROJECT IMP-ATIOH

start-up

3.01    The Bank approved the project on February 17, 1977.    The D8velopernt
Credit and Project agreemanta were si-ed    on April 1, 1977, and the Credit
war declared effective on June 29, 1977.    S o m delayr occurred becaure COK
war not familiar with the procedurer of Bank-arrirted projectr and sought
reviaionr of the legal docuwntr after n;80tiationr.

3.02    It had been atreed during project apprairal in Ha7 1976 that CbK and
IRB would undertake certain pre-project actionr.     There were not completed
due to the reluctance of COK to coamit funds and staff bafore c o n f i ~ t i o nof

IDA'S financial assistance- This resulted in a slow start of various project
activities.

3.03    Manpower constraints within SADU and delayed implementation of credit
schemes resulted in the loss of the 1977178 planting season and more than one
year's delay in project implementation.   Initial delays were experienced in
the transfer of suitable land from Forest Department to SADU for seed garden
establishment and to PCK for new cashew planting and in positioning of essen-
tial staff and in appointing foreign technical consultants for the rubber
processing component.

Project Changes after Appraisal

3.04    Several changes were mrde during the project period due to implemen-
tation problems and in response to farmers' needs.    The main changes were as
follows:

    (a) Coconut - New Planting.  The appraisal target of 5,000 ha was
        increased to 7,000 ha;

    (b) Coconut Rehabilitation.  The appraisal target was reduced from 30,000
        ha to 27,500 ha.  Of the 27,500 ha, 5,200 ha were in root wilt dis-
        ease affected areas and the balance in disease free areas)

    (c) Hinor Irrigation Facilities and Irrigation of Coconuts.    The
        irrigated area of new planting was increased from 1,000 ha to 1,925
        ha;

    (dl Fodder Interplantint? in Irrigated Coconut Rehabilitation and Dis-
        tribution of Cows.  The area under fodder war decreased from 3,000 ha
        to 2,317 ha and the number of cows from 9,000 to 5,671;

    (el Pepper Rehabilitation.  The appraisal target of 10,000 ha was
        increased to 17,500 hat

    (f) Seed Cardm.   The area for the seed garden complex was increased from
        435 ha to 582 ha)

    (g) Cashew Developawnt.  The appraisal target of 2,280 ha was reduced to
        2,015 ha for rehabilitation and the cashew apple processing unit was
        deleted:

    (h) Rubbor Processin&.  The number of new factorier to be constructed was
        reduced from 9 to 6; and

    (i) New Project Districts.  Wynard district was included for pepper
        rehabilitation and four new districts (Alleppey, ernakulum, Quilon
        and Trichur) for coconut development.   m a r d district was carved out
        of Camonore and Kozhikode districts in 1981.     Since both these
        districts were included in the project, the amendment did not mean
        any change in project area but only specified the new district Wynard
        in the legal docuwnt.    The proposed four new districts were not

            included in the original project because of the prevalence of coconut
            root-wilt disease in these areas.
-

    Implementation Schedule

    3.05    In general, the project was about 18 months behind the appraisal
    target.  Owing to the initial implementation problems with all project c o w
    ponents and continuing problems with some, and the revision of appraisal
    targets, the project was extended by one year (to Uarch 1986).

    Implementation of Project Components

    3.06    A sumnary of implementation targets and achievements is given in
    Table 1.

    3.07    Coconut - New Plantina.  Implementation of this component was a
    success.  The appraisal target was increased twice (from 5,000 ha to 6,000
    and again to 7,000 ha) because of the good response from famers.   Impleaun-
    tation rate was slow in the first two project years but accelerated con-
    siderably thereafter, and by 1984 the area planted had exceeded the original
    appraisal target.

    3.08    Coconut - Rehabilitation.  The original target of 30,000 ha was
    reduced to 27,500 because of poor uptake by farmars.  It consisted of the
    following sub-components.

                  Table 3.1:  COCONUT REHABILITATIOU SUB-COHPOUEWTS
                                        (ha)

                                          SAB   Revised by COK   Achievement

        Irrigated
        Root disease free area#

        Unirrigated
        Root disease free areaa
        Root disease affected areaa          -       5,200           2,795

                        Total



    3.09    Deaund for irrigated coconut developmant by farmera war high, ar a
    result of which achieveannt exceeded SAB target.  Howver, farmera' reaponae
    to unirrigated coconut rehabilitation war below expectationr, due in part to
    credit problems.  Reasons for low credit deaund by farmers for this
    sub-component were the small size of inveatmmt loan# in relation to the
    value of land to be mortgaged as collateral, reluctance to mortgage land,
    defective land titles, low calibre of extension staff, restrictive conditions
    stipulated by NABABD and participating banks, and lack of cooperation by
    these banks to prowte'project development.   The pilot schema for the
    development of 5,200 ha of coconut in root disease affected areas was
    included in the project in 1982.  Initial impleauntation war slow because of

                 J

the Late positioning of field staff and unpreparedness of the Kerala State
Cooperative Bank (KSCB) to be responsible for the delivery of credit to
farmers in these new areas, but it gradually gained momentum,  and cormnendable
physical progress was achieved by the end of the project period.

Provision of Minor Irrigation Facilities and Irrigation of Coconuts

3.10    Irrigation.  The appraisal target for irrigated coconuts was
increased Erom 8,500 ha to 9,425 ha because of farmers' demand.   After the
initial implementation delay, progress accelerated considerably and at
project completion 18,221 ha were irrigated:   15,166 ha (sAB 7,500 ha)
rehabilitated and 3,055 ha (SAR 1,000 ha) newly planted.   Shortage of water
was experienced in some areas where a groundwater survey had not been under-
taken before pump installation.

3.11    Energization of Pumpsets.   At project completion only 7,351 out of
9,380 electric pumps installed were energized (SAR target, 10,875 units) and
1,703 diesel pumps (SAR target 1,900 units) were installed.   The Kerala State
Electricity Board (KSEB) was unable to cope with the demand because of
shortage of materials and manpower and lack of coordinated planning with SADU
at the district and field levels.   KSEB was also reluctant to provide power
to coconut growers because of the low power tariff.   Energization of electric
pumps accelerated considerably after KSEB was directed by COY in 1984 to give
priority to this project component and also when reticulation charges
increased from Rs 4,500 to Rs 9,500.

3.12    Intercropping.  Interplanting of irrigated, rehabilitated coconut
with cocoa and fodder was met with poor farmer response.   At project comple-
tion only 1,266 ha of fodder had been planted and 2,998 cows distributed.
Uptake was poor because other agencies were extending similar schemes which
included subsidies.  Also, marketing of milk was a problem in some areas, and
there was considerable delay in the energization of pumpsets for irrigating
fodder.  Only 1,089 ha of cocoa war planted (compared with the appraisal
target of 3,000 ha) of which 92% were planted in 1978, 1979 and 1980 when the
cocoa price was high (Rs 35/kg wet beans).   After 1980, the price of cocoa
fell to Rs 3.5 and, because of the reported high acidity of the cocoa beans,
the only marketing agency (cadbury India Ltd.) withdrew from the market.
Cocoa holdings have since been neglected or abandoned, and 900 ha have been
replanted with bananas.

3.13    Pepper Rehabilitation.   Implementation of this component war con-
sidered successful.  The SAIL target of 10,000 ha was achieved in 1982.  An
additional 7,500 ha was approved in August 1981.   At project completion,
19,842 ha had been rehabilitated.   Very little planting of new pepper was
undertaken as originally planned in the SAB.

3.14    Seed Garden.  The seed garden complex was increased from 835 ha to
582 ha in September 1981 but its developamnt was seriously handicapped by
delays in transferring land from the Forest Departmnt to the Kerala Depart-
ment of Agriculture (KDOA),  in constructing access road, staff quarters and
administrative buildings, and in supplying electricity and irrigation
facilities.  During the period 1982-1985, 105 has of coconuts were destroyed
by drought damage.  Damage was also caused by lack of irrigation facilities

     and wild animals.  At project completion the resulting shortfall against the
    -SAR estimate was 222 ha coconuts, 7 ha pepper, and 10 ha each of cocoa and
-
     nutmeg; about 76 ha of land had still not been made available by the Forest
     Department; Administrative buildings, staff quarters and roads were only 90%
     complete, and only 111 out of 186 ha of the seed garden were provided with
     irrigation facilities.  Planting of the proposed additional area of 222 ha
     coconut and 7 ha pepper is expected to be completed by FY1989.

     3.15    Cashew Development.  The cashew plantation of the KDOA was trans-
     ferred to PCK in early 1978.  Rehabilitation proceeded according to schedule,
     but new planting was only completed in 1984 due to the long process involved
     in complying with the GO1 Conservation Act and further delays in site clear-
     ing.  As improved varieties were not available at the time, ordinary planting
     materials of Local origin were used.

     3.16    The pilot cashew processing plant proposed at appraisal was not
     established.  Initially, there was a misunderstanding of the objective of
     this component by PCK, resulting in the carrying out of two feasibility
     studies by the Central Food Technological Research Institute on the estab-
     lishnmnt of a small-scale commercial plant for processing cashew brandy and
     jam.  Subsequently, a proposal for a pilot plant as envisaged at appraisal
     was submitted to the Bank in 1980.  However, in view of the long delay and
     the lack of management expertise, COX and the World Bank, in mid-1983, agreed
     not to proceed.

     3.17    Rubber Processing Component.  The appraisal report stipulated the
     construction of nine new factories and the expansion of an existing one.    At
     project completion, only two new factories and the expanded one were opera-
     tional.  Three more factories were expected to be operational by November
     1986 and the remaining four by 1988.  Delays occurred at every stage of the
     project period: approval of detailed factory proposals by financing agencies;
     site selection and acquisition of land: procuremnt of cement, steel and
     other equipment: construction disputes by contractors over price escalation,
     and late payments: and: subsequently, procuremnt, mrchinery installation and
     plant electrification.  Lack of construction supervision by I88 due to late
     recruitment of technical consultants has been an impediment throughout the
     implementation of thir project component.

     3.18    The three factorier operated well below m u i m m capacity.  Average
     capacity utilization in 1985 and 1986 was 652 in Palai, 402 in Kanjirapally
     and 272 in Koshikode.  The low capacity utilization (40-652) of the three
     factories war due mainly to restricted power supply, frequent power cuts,
     labor striker and soor difficulties in obtaining raw materials due to com-
     petition from private factories and lower price incentive.    However, capacity
     utilization is expected to increase to about 832 during PY1987-90 for the
     first three factories (para 5.17) and by 1992 for the three remaining new
     factories because more reliable power would be assured, and raw material
     would be more regularly supplied by the organized producer groups and through
     provision of better price incentives.

     3.19    Development of Marketin8 Infrastructure and Marketina.    The provision
     of physical infrastructure (godown and vehicles) was deleted from the project
     in the absence of a consensus among concerned agencies.    Collection of raw

materials and marketing of crumb rubber created considerable problems.   Funds
available vere insufficient for payments to crumb rubber societies and
resulted in shortages of raw material.

3.20    Central Rubber and Testing Laboratory.   The laboratory vas estab-
lished in a temporary building and started functioning in a limited way
commencing January 1981.   It became fully functional when it was transferred
to a new building with better facilities and a full complement of staff in
September 1985.

3.21    Training and Technical Assistance.   The programe of overseas train-
ing was not fully implemented.   Officers who vere sent to Malaysia for train-
ing included the project officer, processing engineer, chemical engineer,
economist/financial analyst, market research officer and two factory
managers.  Technical consultants were recruited in January 1979, about 19
months behind schedule.   The delay was due mainly to cumbersome and lengthy
procedures requiring approval of several government agencies.   The technical
consultants' contract vas extended by two years up to December 1985 in view
of the delay in the establishment of the factories.

Agricultural Research

3.22    The stipulated research programmes were carried out satisfactorily
both by CPCRI and KAU.   In CPCRI a Laboratory-cum-library building and visit-
ing scientists ' apartments vere constructed.  The laboratory was equipped
with sophisticated equipment including an electron microscope.   A radio
isotope laboratory building was constructed in KAU, and this was fully
equipped to support the research programne.   All the posts of scientists in
CPCRI (17) and KAU (13) have been filled.   Five scientists from CPCRI, but
only one out of the proposed seven scientists from KAU, have benefitted from
training overseas.  The project provided for a total of 18 manmonths of
consultancy services of which only 2.25 manmonths vere utilized.

Extension Services

3.23    Throughout the greater part of the project period, the extension
service has faced numerous staffing constraints: unfilled vacancies, high
turnover and poor calibre of field staff.   It was not fully staffed until
early 1984.  Many of the posts have been filled on a temporary basis because
the Public Service Commission has been too slow to meet project requirements.
There was also a high turnover of high level staff.   This, and the general
dissatisfaction of field staff, was partly due to lack of mobility and
hardship allowance.   The SAR proposed the purchase of 338 motorcycles for
field staff, 20 cars for supervisory staff and 6 10-ton trucks for transport
of input supplies, mainly seedlings.   Only 2 motorcycles, 3 cars, 6 trucks
and 24 jeeps were purchased.   Field staff were also not adequately trained to
effectively provide agricultural advice and assistance.   Considerable time
was spent on identifying potential participants and assisting them in loan
applications, and this reduced effective extension concerning cultural prac-
tices, disease control, etc.   The wide dispersion of participating farmers
reduced the frequency of extension visits particularly as extens.ion staff
were not prepared to purchase motorcycles or bicycles under the inadequate
loan, transport or traveling allowances which were provided.

-Credit Component

  3.24    Under the project, Kerala State Cooperative Agricultural Development
  Bank (KSCADB) and 10 commercial banks (CBs) were selected as participating
  lending banks for the provision of loans to smallholders and KSEB.    Loans for
  the cashew development were provided by CBs, while loans for rubber procesp-
  ing factories were provided by KSCB rather than KSCADB as anticipated at
  appraisal.

  3.25    Terms and conditions of NABARD's re-f inancing and lending from the
  participating banks have deviated slightly from the appraisal estimates.     The
  interest rate for NABARD's re-f inancing for minor irrigation development wag
  reduced from 7.5% pea. to 6.5% pea. since April 1979.    Interest rat-  for
  ultimate borrowers were also reduced from 10.25%-10.5%  pea. for minor irriga-
  tion development, snullholder development and KSEB to 10% pea., and the
  interest rates for other putposer (carhew and rubber procesring factories and
 marketing) were reduced from between 11.0%   to 12.5% pea. to 11% pea.   Due to
 the subrtantial increarer in the development coats and lower prices of output
  particularly coconut, repayment periods for the smallholder development are
  longer at 15 years including a grace period of five yearr compared with 12-13
 yearr including a grace period of 1-2 yearr estiauted at appraisal.     L o w r
  income due to poor uptaka of intercropr and dairying ir the other factor
  limiting farmer's repayment ability.

  3.26    Table 7 presents the nwnbers of lours recommended, approved and
 disbursed during the project period.   Of the total amount of Rr 904.5 million
  recomncnded by SADU, Rs 798.4 million war approved by participating banks.
  Shortfalls were mainly due to the lack of sufficient collateral in the
  smallholder sector.  Because disbursements particularly for smallholders are
  divided into five inrtallments, disbursements a8 of July 1986 were Rr 520.4
 million, or 65% of the total loans approved of which Rs 432.4 million was for
  the smallholder development (83%). Rs 46.3 million for KSEB (9%).   Rr 8.5
 million for cashew development (2%) and Rr 33.2 million (6%) for rubber
  processing factorier.  Dirbursements under the snullholder development and
  KSEB were 34% above the appraisal target of Rr 358.2 million.   Higher demands
  in the irrigated coconut development and pepper rehabilitation urd its
  increasing development costs are the main factorr.    Dirbursmnts under
  cashew developavnt were 37% below the appraisal estiaute of Rr 13.5 million,
 while disburs.ementr under rubber procersing factories were 12% above the
 appraisal target of Rr 33.5 million.   The forant war due to the reduced fund
  requirement from PCK, and the latter war due to the increaring invertment and
  operating cortr.

  3.27    Under smallholder development, disbursements were made for the
  development of 30,046 ha of coconut including intercropr and dairy, 19,482 ha
 of pepper and 7,594 niter of electric reticulation.     Lour procesring and
  disbursements, particularly during initial project years, were slow due to
  shortage of staff within the banks and SADU, and lack of clear lending proce-
 durer and adequate sanction authority within the bank8 at district level.
 Delays were also caused by NABARD's slow re-financing process.

3.28    The lack of coordination to achieve a uniform lending policy for
smallholder development has limited the credit operations, particularly of
CBs.  Simple interest had been applied by KSCADB and compound interest by
CBs.  Moreover, interest rebates of 5% for prompt repayment were extended
only to KSCADB's clients.    As a result, the anticipated role of CBs in
extending loans to smallholders was reduced from 502 to 302 (Table 8).
Moreover, competition from various Integrated Rural Development Program
subsidy schemes adversely affected potential development and credit demands
in the project area.   One-third of the irrigation and dairy development costs
has been given as a subsidy to sm~llh~ldets.Due to longer grace periods,
most of the loan repayments have not yet fallen due.       However, it was
reported that loan recovery from pepper development was satisfactory, but
there was difficulty under the coconut development due to the current low
price of coconut.

3.29    Disbursements of loans for the cashew development and rubber process-
ing factories suffered long delays due to the slow loan processing procedures
in CBs and KSCB and NABARD.

3.30    As of July 1986, total NABARD's re-financing war Rs 410.4 million
(Table 10). or about 802 of the total loans disbursed.       Re-financing for the
smallholder component was about 902 and that for carhew development and
rubber processing factories about 75%.

Project Cost

3.31    Total project cost (see Tables 2 and 3 and over an implementation
period of seven years was estimated at Rs 619 million, (US$69 million).        Due
to the slow start-up and considerable implementation delays, the actual
project cost during the implementation period was Rs 740 million (USS72.5
million), or a cost overrun in Rupers of 20% (5% in US$).        However, total
project cost over the full development period ir estimated at about Rs 984
million, with a cost overrun of 59% (34% in US$ terms).       Major factors con-
tributing to cost overruns during the project period were the conriderable
increases in irrigated coconut d a v e l o p n t areas, and price escalations in
the costs of construction, particularly Labour, cement and steel.

Project Financing

3.32    IDA was expected to finance 44% of total project costs, i.e.,       100% of
all foreign exchange costs and about 33% of the local currency costs.        The
total IDA credit was US$30 million and COX, COK, NABABD and participating
banks, m P , C M S , KSEB and farmers were expected to contribute the balance
of US$39 million as shown below.

                        Table 3.2:  PROJECT FINANCING
                        -US$         million)

                                           Appraisal
                                           Estinutes       Actual

        IDA                                   30.0           29.5
        COX and COK                            7.O           10.3
        NABAED and participating banks        25.5           22.1
        CBnS, W, KSHB and KSCB                 1.8            6.2
        Farmers' Contribution                 - -
                                               4.7            4.4

                                Total         69.0           72.5
                                              =111           =Ill




The actual credit disbursed was USS29.5 million (40.62 of actual project
costs).  The shortfall in IDA disbursements of USSO.5 million was due auinly
to deletion of the marketing facility component, reduced number of crumb
rubber factories, and reduced technical assistance and overseas training
components.

Loan Allocation and Disburs'ement

3.33    Shortage of staff for maintaining separate and regular accounts was a
major cause of delayed Loan disbursement.  Cumulative disburssmants (Table 5 )
lagged behind the appraisal schedule throughout the project period despite
cost overruns.  The folloving table shovs a comparison between appraisal
estimates and actual loan allocation.

                     Table 3.3:  PROCEEDS OF LOAN ALLOCATION
                                  (US$ million)

                                    Appraisal                  Actual as X of
                                    Estimates     Actual     Appraisal Estimates

(1) Equipment and Material
(2) (a) Equipment for Crumb
          Rubber Factories
      (b) Civil Works for New
          Factories
      (c) Expansion of Palai
          Factory
      (dl Marketing Facilities
(3) Technical Assistance &
      Overseas Training for Rubber
      6 Research Components
(4) Loan Disbursed to Farmers
      6 KSEB
( 5 ) Civil Works & Development
      (a) Cashew Development
      (b) Seed Garden
(6) Other Civil Works
(7) Unallocated
(8) Cancelled

                          Total       30.00        30 00
                                      =-==         =-s=




3.34     Most of the unallocated fund of USS7.3 million was used to meet
credit needs resulting from the increasing costs of the s~llholderc o p
ponent.    Allocations for the crumb rubber factories, marketing facilities,
technical assistance and overseas training were below the appraisal estimates
due to low achievement and deletion.


                 IV.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT


Project Coordination

4.01     PCC met two to four times annually.   PCC did not have a adequate
staff support and was unable to solve major problcmr promptly and satisfac-
torily.    Effective coordination is esaential in a complex project, with many
components involving numerous agencies, and to operate at optimum capacity
this requires full-time senior staff with the necessary incentives (allowan-
ces and transport) and authority.

Implementing Agencies

4.02     Numerous State and Central Government agencies were involved in
project implementation.   As recommended by the appraisal mission several key

-organizations were set up prior to the conmencement of the project in March
 1977, and these included SADU, a Project Department within PCK and a Rubber
 Processing Department within IRE.

 4.03       Special Agricultural Development Unit (SADU).    This war the principal
 implementing agency with specific responsibility for smallholder developamnt
 dealing with coconut and pepper development, including irrigation and inter-
 cropping of coconuts with cocoa, fodder and dairying, related axtenrion
 support and seed garden development.       Taking into consideration that it was a
 new organization, that the project was the first of its kind and complex in
 nature, and that SADU was confronted with staffing problemr and other con-
 straints as indicated in para 3.23,      this unit has performed reasonably well.
 For future operations the essential extension services will be integrated
 into the TLV system, leaving SADU to concentrate on credit applicationr and
 utilization.       SADU will also assist lending institutions in there operations.

 4.04      Kerala Plantation Corporation (PCK).     A Carhew Project Department
 (CPD) was set up within PCK in May 1977 for implementing the project.         The
 organization and management of CPD war weak and effective field supervision
 war lacking.       The Project Office war located far from the plantation rite
 and the plantation war fragmented into six different, widely scattered arear,
 separated from the rest of the project area by a river and inaccerrible (no
 bridge) during the rainy period.       Timely availability of inputr, and regular
 and prompt field maintenance and harverting were not porrible due to labor
 shortage, mainly becaure higher labor wager were offered by adjacent rubber
 estates.

 4.05      On the recommlndation of World Bank supervirion missions, the visit-
 ing agent systcm of providing technical input and guidance was adopted.
 However, only two field visits were made in 1982 and the third in 1986.

 4.06      Recruitment of staff by CPD war rlov and moat of the technical per-
 sonnel had no previour carhew experience.       The General b a g e r had additional
 responsibilities outride the project.

 4.07       Rubber Procerring Department.    Thir department, established in 1977,
 only- played ur advisory role and had no effective control of KBM? and CBnS on
       -    -
 the construction and ohration of rubber procerring factories procuremant of
                                                                     ,
 raw materiala and marketing of crumb rubber.

 4.08       Kerala Rubbor Marketing Federation.    KEUF suffered from aarnagerial
 and financial problamr.      There were frequent changer of personnel at the
 senior m&nag&nt        level, rerulting in d~rcontinuiEyof p;oject    implemnnta-
                                                          .
 tion.     For the greater part of the project period   KB)(Phar been functioning
 without proper marketing m d financial rupport rtaff        Follouing the recow
 mendation of the Berant Raj Conrultants on organization and nunagenmnt, the
 management personnel of KBnP ha8 been conriderably strengthened.

 4.09       Cooperative Rubber Marketing Societier.    Mort societier have shown
 improved performance.       The quantity of rubber procured and sold har increased
 conriderably, particularly for the Palai factory, and problemr regarding the
 p r o c u r ~ ~ nof raw materials have been overcoma succerrfully through the
                  t

 provision of better price incentives to producers and the establishment of
 rubber producers' societies in FY1986.

 4.10    Research Institutions.     CPCRI and KAU have carried out their research
 activities satisfactorily.     However, the overseas training and technical
 assistance programme was not fully implemented.

 4.11    Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB).     Non-availability of materials
 and the need to change transformers and extension lines were reported to be
 the major problems faced by KSEB in providing adequate electricity to
 implementing agencies.     Energitation of pumpsets accelerated considerably
 only in the last two project years resulting from the action of GOK concern-
 ing farmers' participation and KSEB action priority.

 Lending Institutions

 4.12    The overall performance of N A B M D and participating banks was
 reasonably satisfactory.     A common problem encountered in the project was
 delay in loan processing and disbursement.     More critical problems were the
 lack of a uniform lending policy, and competition from various IRDB's subsidy
 schemes.  The former has considerably limited credit operations of commercial
 banks, the Latter has adversely affected the potential development and credit
 demands in the project area.     The establishment of a uniform lending policy
 and removal of subsidy schemes would have helped increasing the participation
 of commercial banks promoting potential development and credit demands. Other
 problems which have delayed and limited credit operations included shortage
 of staff in the lending banks to handle timely Loan approval, disbursements
 and supervision; and, lack of clear operational procedures.     During the
 project, an informal cornittee comprising the Director of SADU and repre-
                                           .
 sentatives from N A B M D and all the participating banks, was set up and suc-
 cessfully solved some of these problemr

 4.13    Monitoring and Evaluation.     The Evaluation Unit hag produced 15
 reoorts which were largely problem-oriented studies.
                          - -  -                          Useful baseline data on
 pre-project crop yields and farm income have also been collected by the Unit.
 At the recommendation of a Bank supervision mission, the Unit undertook an
.evaluation study of the saul1holder development component, however the study
 was mainly problem-oriented, and provided Little data on project implementa-
 tion.

 Accounting and Reporting

 4.14    With the exception of SADU, implementing agencies were generally late
 in submitting annual audited accounts and reports to IDA, and in some years
 the delay was more than one year against the stipulated period of five
 months.  The quality of accounts and audit work somatime8 did not meet the
 standards for IDA financed projects.     Until 1984 KBnP did not operate bank
 accounts for project activities separately from funds handled on behalf of
 member societies.

Compliance with Covenants

4.15    Compliance with legal covenants war generally satisfactory.     Excep-
tions were that the Kerala State Electricity Boad war unable to provide
project farmers with adequate electricity for the energisation of pumprets,
that there was considerable delay in the transfer of land for the seed garden
complex and for cashew planting, and that annual accounts and audit reports
were submitted to the Bank with considerable delay.

                             V.   PROJECT IMPACT


Afiricultural Impact

5.01    It is not yet possible to quantify with accuracy the yields and
production at full development.   Yield otiauter (Table8 11 and 12) are based
on data provided by SADU, the Evaluation Unit and interview8 with farmers
during field visits.

5.02    Coconuts.  The appraisal report anticipated that the largest produc-
tion increase would come from coconuta.    Yield8 of rehabilitated coconut were
expected to increaae from 21 nut8/palm to more than 40 in unirrigated and 60
in irrigated area,.  In the ca8e of unirrigated coconut,,   the appraisal
eatiaute wa8 exceeded in the seventh year and at full development the yield
i8 expected to be more than 50 nut81palm (Table 11).   Yield, of irrigated
coconuts were well belov the expected level in the early year8 but increared
appreciably thereafter and are expected to reach 80 nutalpalm at full
development.  Low yield, of coconut8 during the initial project years were
due to the fact that moat farmers planted only the Wort-Coaat Tall although
hcadative Ordinary and hybrid seedling8 had a180 been recomwnded by the
Department of Agriculture, and that only a few farmer8 adopted recomwnded
cultural practicer.  At full developnt the e8timated annul production of
243 million nuts under the coconut rehabilitation component i8 very clo8e to
the SAB ertiaute of 246 million nut8 (Table 13).    In the c a m of coconut new
planting, production ir expected to reach 88 million nut,,   exceedin8 the
appraisal eatiaute of 46 million nut8 d m mainly to the 3052 increase in the
area8 planted and irri8at.d  (Table I).

5.03    Interplanting of Coconuts.   Only about one-third of the SAP target
of 3,000 ha of cocoa b.8 been met.    lo further planting8 were undertaken
since 1982 kcau8e of declining pricer.    The expected yield of 520 b/ha (dry
bema) (Table 12) and an annul production of 520 ton8 by Year 15 ia far
belov the S M a88umption of 650 u / h a and 1,950 ton# (Table 14).   Prom
1981182 onward, roar farmerr interplanted their coconuta with banana#
(unforereen in the S M ) inatead of cocoa.  B~nrnrproduction h.8 increared
con8iderably from 160 ton8 in 1981 to 5,500 ton8 in 1982 but declined rub-
sequently and ir expected to stabilize at 2,100 ton8 annually (Table 14).
Similarly, tapioca production increased to 21,000 ton8 but .$.in    decreared to
11,000 tons, far belov the appraisal ertiaute of 148,000 ton8 (Table 14).
Production shortfall8 -re   due to farmerr' reluctance to increase b w a and
tapioca planting in the absence of production 10~18. Annul milk production
ia estiauted to be about 4 million litre, compared with the SAB target of 15
million litter.

5.04    Peppers.   Very little new pepper was planted.   Average yields of
rehabilitated pepper at full development are reestimated at 875 kgfha com-
pared with appraisal 650 kgfha (Table 12) based on assessments by SADU and
farmer interviews.   Also the pre-project yield of rehabilitated pepper of 275
kgfha has been revised to 155 kgfha.   The net effect of these adjustments is
to raise the incremental yield of rehabilitated pepper at full development to
720 kgfha compared with the 375 kgfha estimated at appraisal, (a 922
increase).  Incremental production is now estimated at about 14,285 tonslyear
or about 2.5 times the appraisal estimate of 6,000 tonslyear.    Total pepper
production is estimated to reach 17,300 tonsfyear at full development, com-
pared with the SAR estimate of 8,700 tons/year (Table 141, resulting from
the substantial increase in the rehabilitated pepper development area of
19,842 ha (SAR 10,000 ha), and higher yields.

5.05    Cashew.  Present yield estimates of 525 kgfha for rehabilitated
cashew and 640 kgfha for new planting9 at full development are far below
appraisal estimate of 1,300 kgfha and 2,000 kg/ha respectively (Table 12).
Also annual production of 2,000 tons of raw nuts from both rehabilitated and
newly planted cashews at full development are far below the SAR estimate of
6,400 tons.  Reasons for Low yields and production are discussed earlier in
paras 3.15 and 4.04.

0       Rubber.  The total annual production of the three factories during
the last project year was only 3,900 tons, i.e.,  about 25% of SAR expectation
for these factories and is much Less in relation to the SAR assumption for 10
factories.

5.07    Seed Garden.   It is anticipated that the project will achieve its
target of producing 3.5 million pepper cuttings and about 75% of the cashew
seed target; only about 15% of the coconut seedlings are likely to be
produced (Table 16).

Other Impact

5.08    Crop Developwnt.    There was an enthusiastic response from farmers
for irrigation of coconuts and rehabilitation of pepper.    More farmers are
taking remedial meaaures to improve coconut production in disease affected
areas.  The use of technically specified rubber haa been introduced and
popularized.  The Central Rubber Testing Laboratory war the first of its kind
to be established and haa been able to provide analytical services for
quality control of proceaaed rubber and for the treatment and disposal of
factory affluent.   Mearures are being initiated to establish Rubber Producers
Societies for the collection of raw material and supply to rubber processing
factories.

5.09    Extension Services.    The Extension Service of SADU has been success-
ful in organizing farmers in concentrated units for project implementation.
However, the inability of staff to concentrate on the delivery of technology
packages was due to the h e a y burden of their non-extension activities.

5.10    A~riculturalResearch.    CPCRI has identified the vector responsible
for transmitting coconut wilt root disease.   Findings of soma field trials on
coconut, cocoa and cashew undertaken by CPCRI and the KAU are incorporated
into recommendations for adoption by farmers.

Incomes and Financial Results

5.11    Two farm models, not included at appraisal have been prepared for
coconut rehabilitation in order to deal with the condition8 in root wilt
affected areaa and to deacribe rehabilitation with irrigated bananaa.   The
financial rates of return (IBB) for all models have been calculated over a
period of 25 years.   They are baaed on net income excluding wage8 of family
labour (Tables 18-33).   The results are suamrized below:

                     Table 5.1:  FINANCIAL BATE OF RETUEU
                                      (XI



        Coconut New Planting
          Unirrigated with garden crops
          irrigated with garden crops'
          Irrigated with banana

        Coconut Rehabilitation
          Unirrigated with gardm cropa
          Irrigated with cocoa
          Unirrigated in diaease affected
            area with dairy                                 over 50
          Irrigated with banana                               21.0
          Irrigated with dairy                                 12.0

        Pepper Rehabilitation                               over 60



5.12    Major reaaona for the lower IBBa for a o n of the farm wdela are:
much higher investment and oparating coata (Table 4). delayod and lower than
expected yielda of the coconut new planting, and higher yield8 of coconuta in
the pre-project aitrution (Table 11).   Coconuta (new planting8 and
rehabilitation) in irrigated areaa with intercropa of banana generated
favorable I M a between 21-25%. while coconut rehabilitation in root wilt
affected a r u gutrratea the higheat IBB of o w r SOX due to significant
increaaea in yirlda in the with project aitrution.    The reeatimted I M of
pepper rehabilitation ia very favorable at over 60%, due to higher incr-n-
tal yields and prices of outputs.   The current price of pepper at Ra   41.33
per kg ia nearly double the appraisal eatimate of Ba 21.8 per kg upressed in
1986 conatant value.

5.13    Re-eatimted caah flowa of all the farm modela are preaented in
Tables 35-42.  The reaults are suamrized below.

               Table 5.2:  PRE- AND POST-PROJECT SMALLHOLDERS INCOME

                                                                          Income
                                              Pre-                         Full
                                Holding    Project                    Development                                Incremental
                                 Size     SAR   PCR                   SAR     PCB                               SAR     PCR
                                 (ha)     ........
                                                   m . . . . . . . .      RS  a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .



Coconut New Planting
  Unirrigated and garden crops    0.5     156    683                3,785    8,305                              3,629   7,622
  Irrigated and garden crops      1.0     312  1,336                10,336  20,415                         10,024      19,079
  Irrigated and banana            1.0       -    800                     -  23,572                                  -  22,772

Coconut Rehabilitation
  Unirrigated and garden crops    0.5   1,464  3,511                2,707    6,265                              1,243   2,754
  Unirrigated in disease
    affected areas                0.2       -    883                     -   3,448                                  -   2,565
  Irrigated and cocoa             1.0   2,928  4,960                10,281  17,735                              7,353  12,775
  Irrigated and fodder            1.0   2,928  5,010                9,267   18,296                              6,339  13,286
  Irrigated and banana            1.O       -  5,010                     -  18,405                                     13,395

Pepper Rehabilitation


     5.14    The re-estimated net incomes in the pre-project situation is 70-150%
    higher than estimated at appraisal.    This is due mainly to higher prices of
     outputs (see Table 17).   Net income of the farms at full development after
     debt servicing are re-estimated at Rs 3,448 for a 0.2 ha farm of coconut
     rehabilitation in root wilt affected area and at Rs 30,650 for the 1 ha farm
     of pepper rehabilitation.   The re-estimated net incomes of the farms at full
     development are about double the net incomes of the models estimated at
     appraisal due to higher yields expected at full development and higher prices
     of outputs.   Net income of the pepper rehabilitation model is approximately
     five times the net income estimated at appraisal.                 Incremental net incomes of
     the models are estimated at Rs 2,754 for the 0.5 ha farm of coconut
     rehabilitation in unirrigated areas with garden crops and Rs 25,575 for the
     1 ha farm of pepper rehabilitation, which are expected to provide sufficient
     financial incentives to participating farmers of the project.

     5.15    Cashew Development.   Due to one-Year's            delay in implementation, poor
     mananernent and considerably lower yields (Table 12), PCK has been operating
     st losses throughout the p;oject  prriod.  These losses have been financed
     through COK's subsidy and PCK's profit from rubber plantations.                                           However, PCK
     is expected to have an operating surplus starting in FY1986.                              Net operating
     income at full development in FYZOOO is estimated at Rs 10.9 million, or
     almost 502 higher than the appraisal estimate due mainly to higher output
     prices.  However, the IRR is negative due mainly to lower yields and delayed
     flow of benefits.   Despite an operating deficit, PCK had fully repaid the
     investment Loans of Rs 8.5 million in FY1985 from its income from rubber
     plantation (Tables 43-45).

     5.16    Seed Garden.   Because of considerable implementat ion delays (para
     3.14) the seed garden started to produce small quantities of planting

- materials only as of FY1985, and incurred financial losses throughout the
  implementation period.   The operating deficit is expected to continue until
  FY1990 because of the additional investment required for development of the
  remaining 229 ha of land and completion of buildings under construction. Full
  development is expected in FY1998 and net operating income is estimated at
  Rs 6.3 million.  This is 502 higher than the net operating income as
  estimated at appraisal.    Due to considerable delays in realizing full produc-
  tion, the IRR is expected to be negative (Tables 46 and 47).

  7       Crumb Rubber Processing Factories.       The actual (FY1979-85) and
  projected (~~1986-2001)operating income of the six crumb rubber factories
  are shown in Tables 48 to 52.       The net operating income of the Palai factory
  was negative in FY1982, but positive during FYl983-85.       The Kozhikode and
  Kanjirapally factories also had operating deficit throughout FY1983-85.        It
  is estimated that all these three factories would be able to achieve 832 of
  the installed capacity, and full production would be reached in FY1987 for
  the Palai factory, FY1989 for Kozhikode, FY1990 for Kanjirapally and FY1992
  for the three new factorier.       Net operating income at full development is
  ertimated at Rr 3.6 million per factory, or over double the net operating
  income estimated at apprairal due mainly to the high selling price of crumb
  rubber which har increased from Rr 6.6 per         in 1976 to Rs 17.2 per kg in
  1986.  The re-ertimated IRR of the six crumb-rubber factories is only 112
  because of the long delay in realizing full production.

  Economic Re-evaluation

  5.18    The analysis has been carried out in 1986 constant prices.        The past
  expenditures were restated in 1986 prices by using the wholerale price index.
  The foreign exchange costa (Pa) and traded goodr were valued at the present
  prevailing official exchange rate of USQ1.0      = Rs 12.5.  Local costs (LC) and
  non-traded goodr were converted into border prices by using a staqdard con-
  version factor (SCP) of 80%. Several specific conversion factors (CPs) have
  also been ured ar r h o m below.

                                                       -
                                                       CPs

                  Insecticides and Pesticides          0.95
                  Civil Works                          0.75
                  Equipmutt                            0.75


  5.19    For traded c m d i t i e s , the World Bank's 1990 price projections,
  expressed in 1986 canstrot values, have been used in all calculations.       The
  derivation of economic prices of fertilisers is presented in Table 55.        The
  economic wage far unskilled labour has h e n taken at Us lO/nunday, or 50% of
  the prerent minimum wage rate due to high u n u p l o p n t in the State..

  5.20    The derivation of economic prices of outputs is presented in Table
  5 3  Coconut, cocoa, pepper and cashew have been based on export parity
  prices, while rubber has been based on import parity price.       Intercrops have
  been assumed as non-traded goods, thus their economic prices have been based
  on financial prices adjusted by SCF.       A sumnary of economic prices of outputs
  and inputs is presented in Table 53.

- 5.21    In estimating the ERRS, a 25-year period of analysis has been used
  as the discounted values after Year 25 are negligible.        Tables 56-64 present
  the cost and benefit streams of the various components and the whole project.
  Total project ERR which has been re-estimated at 24.5% is attributable
  primarily to rehabilitated pepper (Table 60).       In 1986 constant values, at
  full development, gross benefits for rehabilitated pepper are estimated at
  Rs 590 million/year, approximately 4.5 times the Rs 131 miLlion/year
  estimated at appraisal, whilst net benefits, are Rs 533 millionlyear nearly
  six times the appraisal estirnat= of Rs 90 million.     The appraisal, and recal-
  culated ERRS, are summarized beiow:

                      -
                      Table. 5.3:    ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
                                          ( X 1
       ---- -- --                    -.---- -              -- -- .
                                                                - ----  -
       -                          - -       --------.-SAR-           PCR

       Coconut Ne% Pla:.'i 7g :
         Unirrigazed
         Irrigated

       Coconut Rehabilitation:
         Unirrigated
         Irrigated

       Pepper Rehabilitation
       Smallholder Development   Total
       Cashew Development
       Rubber Processing

       Whole Project
       -.-----    -


  5.22    The recalculated ERRS of the coconut compcnents which were expected
  to be major concributors to project benefits at apprdisal, reflect (a) the
  poor response from farmers to unirrigated coconut rehabilitation, (b) cost
  overruns and (c) delayed benefits.    The snallholder componeEt, with a recal-
  culated ERR of 28X compared with 241 at appraisal, contribut~dapproximace!y
  94% of total project net benefits compared with 68% estimated at appraisal.
  This arose mainly from rehabilitated pepper which contributed about      90X, of
  smallholder net benefits while the coconut components contributed absut lo%,
  compared with contributions estimated at appraisaL oE 385 and 627 respec-
  tively.  The performance of rehabilitated pepper which I s explained in
  greater detail in paras 5.04 and 5.12 above, represents a significant varia-
  tion from the appraisal estimates.    It is estimated that Lowering the
  rehabilitated pepper yields by 30% (i.e., to 650 kg/ha at full development),
  which in our judgement would be more easily sustainable under the project,
  yould reduce both the rehabilitated pepper and total projecc net benefits
  proportionately, resulting in a lower ERR for rehabilitated pepper of over
  50% and for the project as a whole of over 20%.      The recalculated ERSj of
  cashew development and coconut rubber processing although relatively
  favourable at 20% and 212 respectively, due primarily to better output pric?~

-are significantly lower than the ERR'S at appraisal.          The major reasons for
 these results were delays in realizing benefits, lower production, cost
 overruns and reduced numbers of crumb rubber factories.          The respective
 percentage contributions of project components towards project net benefits,
 compared with appraisal, are approximately as follows:

         Table 5.   : ESTIMATED CONTRIBUTION TO TOTAI, PROJECT BENEFITS
                                              ( X I
         ---                                             - --- --           -
                                                           - SAR      PCR -

            Smallholder Component
                          - ---

               Rehabilitated Pepper                           25       85
               Coconut Components                            - -
                                                              43        9
                  Subtotal - Smallholder Component            6 8      94

             Rubber Dsveloprnenr
              Cashev Development




                            VI.  WOR!,D
                                 --.- - .-.. ---
                                         BANK PERFORZ>!iCE--
                                                  -.---.-


 Project Des igl_ and Appcajsa_l

 6.01    The Bank's performance during project formulation, preparation and
 appraisal was satisfactory.    It has been instrumental in aligning, during
 appraisal, the project scope and design to COK'S agricultural developm5nt
 strategy and resources.    However, given the limited experience of impleae?.r-
 ing agencies it is considered the project was too complex and had too manj
 components.   The phasing of several activities, such as acquisition of L a ~ d ,
 construction of roads, factories or ot5er buildings, supply of electricity
 and recruitment of staff, was optimistic; many of the delays could have b2on
 anticipated.

 Supervision

 6.02    Fourteen supervision missions were fielded by the Bank during the
 implementation period.    In early project years, two missions of
 multi-disciplinary composition were necessary to provide guidance to inex-
 perienced staff.    Bank supervision missions have maintained constructive
 dialogue and rapport with COT and COK and have succeeded in accelerating
 procurement, recruitment of staff and consultants, and improving general
 project performance.

                           1     SUMWRY AND CONCLUSIONS


7.01    Overall, the project has been fairly successful in meeting its broad
goals.  Physical targets of some project components, such as coconut new
planting, irrigated coconut development and pepper rehabilitation, exceeded
appraisal estimates.     Hevea crumb rubber is being producsd and popularized
and the Central Laboratory can now provide analytical and advisory services
for quality control of processed rubber and the treatment and disposal of
factory efELuence.     A satisfactory extension service has been established and
the capabilities oE CPCRI and KAU have been strengthened.     However, the
progress of other components, notably coconut rehabilitation, coconut inter-
cropping and dairying, seed garden and rubber processing, have been disap-
pointing.  A t s o ,although physical targets of cashew development were
achieved, yields were much lower than expected.

7.02    The incremental net income of smallholder deve:3pment farms is
estimated to be between one to five times higher than Gas calculated at
aspraisal.  In the cashew component, PCK operated at a loss until FY1985, but
is expected to reach an operating surplus starting FYl986.     Based on a
projected ca?acrty utilization of 832, net operating income at full develop-
ment for the rubber processing factories is expecced to be about double what
was estimated at appraisal.

7.03    The revised economic analysis indicates t h a t exi?pt for the cocsnut
development component (ERR, 3-lo%), all other comp.Jnenr.swould have ERRS,
ranging from 20% to over 702.    Overall, the project's E2R has been
re-estimated at 24.52.

Lessons Learned

7.04    Strong cor~itmentfrom Covernmenc and effective managemenc and cc2r-
dination of essential project activities are basic conditions for the succass
of a complex project.    Full-time oEficers in key positions at major
implementing agencies are essential for promptly solving inter-agency
problems that affect implementation prograss.

7.05    Progress in the implementation of field activities depends on the
availability of well trained, continuinj and well motivated szafi.    Projects
need to address problems of incentive; for staff to work in remote areas,
of reducing staff turn-over, and providing Leadership ar the policy and
management levels.

7.06    Extension staff have to be able to concentrate on providinj adviisr;~
services to farmers rather than spending their time on non-extension
activities.   In areas having bcth project and TCV staff, clear delineaticn oE
duties and responsibilities is necessary to avoid duplication, and measurzs
need to be taken to reduce disparity in incentives given under the tvo Syj-
tems.

  7.07    Project implementation needs to be phased over a sufficiently longer
- period to allow time required for land acquisition, Land development, con-
  struction of buildings and roads, supply of electricity, and recruitment of
  staff.

  7.08    The Likely response oE farmers to new production technology and the
  risks they may confront with changes in market prices with a new crop (e.g.
  cocoa) needs to be assessed more carefully during project preparation and
  appraisal.

  7.09    ~armers'participation is Likely to be poor if they also have the
  choice of similar support from other Government sponsored schemes, with
  better incentive levels.

  7.10    Provision of agricultural credit from different financing agencies
  requires uniform lending policies and operational procedures in order to
  standardize lending terms and conditions and ensure efficient and timely loan
  processing and supervision.


                         INDIA

KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

               PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT




                        Annex


-
Coconut
  S.r  P!rnrt?& (ha)
     lrrrgat*d




     l0dd.l
     Cora (me.)
     r w w a




  C..hW
  ? a w r
  C l o n
  1*IM@
  Cocoa


-
uehsv
  Nar plamtlq (hm)
  uh.bllltaIlom (ha)




l a  brt.utJ k Wtaa.
     D.ca cmraCU-       1-    att..  I U 1 1 8 Z at.MI avm11abla1 a I l . ~ t l uarmma a n quotad lor 1983186.
7; laceorin c v L d ..1a s a n J -ntL.I.
     I~OIOCI ~~UI-CLI           *II vt mt tm mracim.

                                                                        -
                                                                        I n D l A

                                               URAU AGRICULTURAL OWEWMICf PROJECT (CREDIT 680-11)

                                                              PUWCCT comcr~ot~    mrorr




                                          9 7 / 7 8  1978/79   1979/80   1980181   I981/82  I982/83 1983/M 1984185 1 9 8 5 6 19M&  Total


     I. Coconut new plmtine
          Unirrlgeted
          Irrigated



    2.  Coconut rehabilitation
          Unirri~ated
          Irrigated

             Subtotnl

    3.  Pepper rehab11ttation
I




    5.  Electric reticulation &



    7.  C=tenalon aerricea and
          proJeet coordination



   9.   Agricultural reaearch

   10.  Rubber procenaing

            Total (R. nilllon)

                   (US$ million)


 - /a Itemm 1-6 a8 of July 31. 1986; 7 nnd I I eo of Scptcclkr 30, 1986; and 8-10 no of hreh 1986.

                                                                                        -Table 3
                                                  -INDIA

                  KERALA A G R I C ~ T U R A LDEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                                     PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                Comparison Between Appraisal Cost Estimates and Actual Costs
                                          at Full Development


                         Appraisal              /d  Actual as X   Appraisal       /b Actual as X
                         --estimate&million) -
                                           ~ c t u xof appraisal  eqtimatek ~ c t u xof appraisal
                              (Rs                                 -- (US$ million)-

Coconut New Planting
   Unirrigated
   Irrigated

      Subtotal

Coconut Rehabilitation
  Unirrigated
   Irrigated  ,



      Subtotal

Pepper rehabilitation

      Total Smallholder
        Development

Electric reticulation

Seed gardens

Extension services and
   project coordination

Cashew developmant

Agricultural research

Rubber processing

     -Total


-
-
/a   Including physical and price contingencies.
/b   The following official exchange rates are used:         average of Re 8.3 during FY77/78-
     FY81/82, Rs 11.3 during FY82/83-1986.
/ c  Including irrigation facilities.
     The smallholder development program based on total amount of loan approved and farm-
     ers' contribution of 10%.

                                                                      -
                                                                      Table 4


                                    -INDIA

            KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-1 N)

                           PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


         Comparison Between Appraisal Estimates and Actual Unit Cost
                                  (Rs per ha)


                                Appraisal                      PCR as X of
                                estimates      PCR /a
                                                   -       appraisal estimates


Coconut New Plantinq

  Unirrigated                     8,075        13,260               164

  Irrigated                      12,900        23,400  .            181

Coconut Rehabilitation

  Unirrigated                     6,200         8,100               193

  Irrigated                      22,500        21,240               94

Pepper Rehabilitation            11,210         9,021               94

Cashew Development

  Rehabilitation                    475         1,345               283

  New planting                   14,560        16,710               115

Rubber Processing Factories         5.8           8.1               140



-
/a  Averaga during FW8-86.

                                                                   -Table 5


                                  -INDIA

          KERACA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                         PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                         Cumulative Disbursements
                              (US$ million)



Fiscal            Appraisal                                Actual as Xof
year              estimates            Actual            appraisal estimates




-
/a As of September 1986.

                                                                     -
                                                                     Table 6


                                     -
                                     INDIA

            KLBALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                           PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


         Comparison Between Appraisal and Actual Physical Achievements


                                         Appraisal            Actual as X of
                                         estimates  Actual  appraisal estimates


Coconut New Plantinq (ha)
  Unirrigated
  Irrigated

Coconut Rehabilitation (ha)
  Unirrigated
  Irrigated

     Total Coconut Development (ha)       35,000    30,046            -
                                                                      86

Pepper rehabilitation (ha)                10,000    19,842           198

     Total Smallholder Development (ha)   45,000    49,888           -
                                                                     111

Carhew Development (ha)
  Rehabilitation
  Plantation

     Total Cashew Development (ha)

Rubber procesring factorier (no. )
Electric pumpsetr (no.)
Diesel pumpsetr (no.)
Food crops (ha)
Cocoa plantations (ha)
Fodder (ha)
Dairy cove (no.)
Banana (ha)
-
Wells
  New construction                             -
                                               -    13,862             --
  Renovation                                         4,280

                                                                               Table 7


                                          -
                                          INDIA

                 KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                                PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


             Loans Recommended, Approved and Disbursed (FY78/79- July 1986)


                             Applications                        Loans       Balance to
                             recommended    Loans approved      disbursed   be disbursed
                         ha/no.     Rs mln  ha/no.  Rs mln   ha/no.  Rs mln   (Rs mln)


Coconut New Planting
  Unirrigated
  Irrigated

     Subtotal

Coconut Rehabilitation
  Unirrigated
  Irrigated
  Disease-affected area

     Subtotal

Pepper rehabilitation

     Total Smallholder
       Development

Electric reticulation
Cashew development
Rubber processing

     Total


/a  Number of electric pumpsets.
    Number of crunb rubber factories.
    Total costs.

Source:  NABARD, KSCADB and KSCB.

                                                                                  -
                                                                                  Table 8


                                           -
                                           INDIA

                 KEIULA AGRICDLTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                                 PROJECT COKPLETION REPORT


                      Total Loans isb burred as of July 1986 by Banks
                                       (Rs million)



                               Coconut          Electric                        Rubber
                              and pepper      reticulation      Cashew        processfn~
                            Amount     %      Amount    X    Amount    %     Amount    X

                                                                                        -
KSCADB                      292.6     68.0     30.8    67.0     -       -       -
KSCB ( 100%)                  2.8&     0.3       -       -      -       -     33.2   100.0

CBs /b                                                                          -       -
                            137.0     31.7     15.5    33.0    8.5   100.0

     Total Smallholderr     432.4    100.0     46.3   100.0    ----100.0
                                                               8.5   100.0    33.2
                               -        -                       -       -       -       -
KSEB                                           46.3   100.0


                               -        -        -       -                      -       -
PCK                                                             8.5  100.0



-
/a  Only the coconut rehabilitation in direare-affected arear.
-
/b  Ten commercial bankr including:  State Bank of Travancore, Indian Overrear Bank, Syn-
    dicatr Bank, Union Bank of India, Canara Bank, Statr Bank of India, Bank of Fhroda,
    Central Bank of India, South Malabar Cramin Bank and North Malabar Cramin Bank.

Source:  NABARD, KSCADB and KSCB.

                                                                                Table 9




            KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                                   PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                                        I n t e r e s t Rates
                                              ( X   pea.)



                                                  Minor               Small      Other
                                              i r r i g a t i o n    farmers    purposes


NABARD's Ref inancin g

  Up t o March 1979

 Up t o Harch 1983

  April 1983 and t h e r e a f t e r

KSCB.  KSCADB and CBa t o
Ultimate Borrowex

  Up t o March 1979

  Up t o June 1980

  Up t o March 1981

  Up t o March 1983

  April 1983 and t h e r e a f t e r


-




Source:   NABARD, KSCAB and KSCB.

                                                                     Tabla 10


                                   -
                                   INDIA

           K E U AGRf CULTURAL DEVELOPME~TPROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                          PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                    Refinancing by NABARD as of July 1986
                    9


                                                            Total refinanced
                                         Total                   by NABARD
                                     loan disbursed         Amount         X


Smallholder including KSEB

Rubber procersing


    -
    Total



Source: NABARD.

                                                                                -INDIA

                                                      KERALA ACRICULTUML DGVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                                                                     PRO.!ECI COWLETION REPORT


                                                           Tlelda of Caconutr   -  SAR and PCR Caapariron



                                              ".-.                                                               .-..,-
                             Rehabllttation        New planting     Rehabllitatlon       Rcr planting    Rehabllltatlon         Rcu planting
                             t   i  -   1    -   r      -  I    -   r     -  1         U r r -   I   -   Unirrl-     I r r l - Unlrrl-        frri-    -
                                                                                                                                                       Reh.billtation/b
                              Rated     gated      gated   ~ a t e d gated   ~ a t e d   noted  ~ a t e d ~ a t e d  gated      mated         meted
                             ..........................        (tree).........................           ---------------                  (ha) -----------IJnlrrlmated

  1977/78 (PreproJ.)            21       2I          -       -        21      21           -       -      3,675      3,675                                    3,400
  1978/79 (Tear I )             22       23          -                19       19                         3,325      3,325                                    3,300
  1979/10 (Tear 2)              23       26          --      --       21       20          ---     --     3,675      3,500                        ---
                                                                                                                                                              3,200
   1980/01 (Tear 3)                                  --                                    -       --
                       ,        24       34                  --       23       26                         4,025      4,550                                    3 , m
   1911/82 (Tear 4)             31       45                           28       30          -              4,900      5,250          ------        ---         3 . m
   1982/83 (Tear 5)             36       50                 10        28       32                         4,900      5,600                                    2,900
   1983/14 (Tear 6)             36       60         10      20        30      44           -       6      5,250      7,700          -         1,050           2,750
   1984/85 (Tear 7)             36       60         20      30        38       46          8      I I     6,650      8,050      1,400         1,925           2,650
  1985/86 (Tear 8)              36       60         30      10       10        51         I I     13      7,000      8,925      1,925         2,275           2,800
  1986/87 (Tear 9)              39       60         10      50        42       52         I8      22      7,350      9,100      3,150         3,850           3,150
  1917/88 (Tear 10)             40       60         45      60       43        54         26      35      7,525      9,450      4,550         6,125           3.600
m
  1918/89 (Tear I I)            40       60         50      65        45       58         35      45      7,875     10,150      6,125         7,875           4,000
  1989/90(Tear 12)              40       60         55      70       46       62          45      59      8,050     10,850      7,875        10,325           4,300
  1990/91 ( t e a r 13)         41)      SO         60      75       78        66         55      70      8,400     11,550      9,625        12,250           4,700
  1991/92 (Tear 14)             40       60         60      80        50       70         65      80      8,750     12,250     11,375        14,000           5moo0


 -/a  Source:      SADU and Misaton assumptlona.

 -/ b this suhcnmpnnent. Coconut In wlth root-affected areas. was not included in the SAR and started only in 1983/14.

                                                                     Table 12




                                     -
                                     INDIA

            KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                           PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


            Yields of Pepper, Cocoa, Cashew- SAR and PCR Comparison
                                    (&/ha)


                             Pepper             Cocoa       Cashew (raw nut)
                   Rehabil-                      (  d  ~ Rehabil-
                     itated  -New               bean)      itated       New
                      SAR     SAR   Ave.  PCR SAR   PCB   SAR    PCR SAR    PCR


1977178 (Preproj.     275

1978179 (Year 1)      275

1979180 (Year 2)      300

1980181 (Year 3)      350

1981182 (Year 4)      500

1982183 (Year 5)      650

1983184 (Year 6)      650

1984185 (Year 7)      650

1985186 (Year 8)      650

1986187 (Year 9)      650

1987188 (Year 10)     650

1988189 (Year 11)     650

1989190 (Year 12)     650

1990191 (Year 13)     650

1991192 (Year 14)     650

                                                                       Table 13



                                    -INDIA

            KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                           PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                              Coconut Production
                                (Million nuts)


                                                 Coconut rehabilitation
              Coconut new planting                        PCR
                      PCR                      Without irrigation
               Without    With                            Direare-   With
                 irri-   irri-                 Diseare-   affected  irri-
           SAR gation    gation  Total   SAR  free area8    area8   gation Total


Preproject  -

                                                                     -
                                                                     Table 14




          IfERAtA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                          PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


               Pepper, Cocoa, Banana, Tapioca, Milk Production


             Pepper         Cocoa       Bananas      Tapioca        Milk
          -SAR- - -
                  PCR    SAR    PCR    SAR   PCR    S A R  PCR   SAR      PCR
                               ('000 tone)                      ('000 liters)

                                        -
Preproject 2.75   3.08    -                 0.76   122.5   0.4    -
                                o                                         o

                          -                                       -
  1977    2.66    3.08                  -
                                            0.76   101.5   0.4            -
                          -             -                         -
  1978     2.33   3.08          -           0.76   102.2   0.6

                                                                     Table 15



                                   -INDIA

           KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                         PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                        Rubber and Cashew Production


                   Rubber                             Cashew
                                                            PCR
                                                New        R ehabil-
                SAR       PCR                 planting     itation     Total
               - ('000 tons) -       -SAR- -   ('000 tons raw nuts) ---

Preproject

                       1
                       LO




                       n
                       0
                       F;;
                       cl
                       W
                       0
                       Z

                       i4
                       LC)
                       d




3. . 59       W N
             p y
              W a '


0 0  0 0.     0.0


*---
0  u          NP
0 0   No,     Pa'
??   FF       r".N
0 0    W O    - 0

                *N
              W Q ,
       W Q ,  0.0.
      .9F     ?'?
       QI0    00

                                                                           Table 17


                                         -INDIA

                 KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                                PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


               Financial Prices of Outputs Used i n Financial Calculations



                                               SAR                      PCR
                                      (1976 constant prices)   (1986 constant prices)


Coconut (Rslnut)
Pepper (Rslkg)
Cashew (raw nut, Rslkg)
Cocoa (Rslkg)
Crumb rubber (ex-factory,     Rslkg)
Milk ( b l l i t e r )
Intercrops (tapioca, Rslkg)
Banana ( b l k g )




                 Economic Prices of Outputs Used i n Economic Calculations



                                           SAR                          PCR
                                 (1976 constant prices)        (1986 constant prices)
                                1976       1980       1985              1990


Coconut ( b l n u t ) /a        0.30
Cocoa (Rs/kg)                   10.00
Pepper ( ~ ~ / k g )            10.90
Cashew (raw nut, b l k g )      3-00
Milk (Relliter)                  1.60
Tapioca (Rs/kg)                 0.30
Crumb rubber (Rslkg)            6.60
Banana (Rslkg)


-
/a  Including returns from husk (Rs 3511,000 nuts) and shell (Ra 1711,000 nuts).

I I I I I




I I I I I




I I I I I




I I I I I

            ti
   u u   Y U
1:i-8 i         2
    I;.

                                         CIIconut k w I l a n t l y ( U l t l a t Irrlgmtlon)-Ulth Garden Crop-0.5 k )(adcl
                                                                                       (I.)



                          Y l thmmt                                                                                                                               tear I4

                          wnlrrt     r I    Vear 2     Tear 3         tear 4         tear 5   a  6    vear I tear 8     tear 9 tear lo tear I 1 tear I 2 tear l l a d after




  -
  "111.
    Illrr4




I n c a
  Cram lwnr




                                                                                       u rn -                                            *
      Total et I n c a         -601  3                    OI) (311)                                       I15     - pn~
                                                                                                                  bob                             mIlW=

                 -
   .: 1:  <    . . I g- 1
    N  U   4 ..a-
I , "  U I U U 0,"

                                        Yl thmnt
                                        prnk r t




  InFt.
     rlmntlne u t r r l n l
    C*.rtl llrrr
    l*r*-nlr urn,..
    R(lrr.     - &.n,
                 1.1-




     --
      Tnt i l fwrml In8 Cn.t.
                     -
        (In* ldlny. lr-l l r I ~h..r)   vn
                                            Y"
        ( 6 . sI w ~ I.*-I~ I thasv)
                      I * I*




cram. 1 r . r
  C o c a s a d hamanan



                                                   -*
                                                       O
                                             I 10."


                                            - --
                                            uu-0
                                             O O U O


                                            - --
                                            uu-0
                                             O 3 U O


 $ 1. ri $ n.2;     1; $                    - --
  W   N  N 0   U     C Y    u   N
                          E 12--u    1:                                            -
                                             O U C         Ir       Ir                   ,
                                                                                     N
                                             . m u 8             I               l u C l



    h      1:                                - --
  W   Ni r
         N  O   ."
              g i g 1s 1:
                     C C    U   N
                          2 15 ihr     1~
                                             t Y 3 Z         1 1 I  I1    1 1  I I I I I I


I $ 1:     1;               1                - --
  W   N  N  O   ."     C    U   N
        5 ;   ~ $ 5            i s     1:    mu-.-
                                             C O U u        I 1  I  I1   1  1  I I I I I ,



  1: ti 2, h                                 - --
  N N N     O.  ."

                                             0 1 1 )
                                             C O U U        I 1  I  I 1  I  1  I I I I I I



                                             - --
                                             01-C
                                             C O U U



                                             - --
                                             96.1-
                                             C O U U



                                             - --
                                             O u - a
                                             c 3 u u


                                             - --
                                             Z Y 3 5        I1   I l l  I 1    I I I I I I



1    1:    h        1: h                     - --
  N   v Y    r U     C   a  - .-
        ri    2 5 3       i12 rri        I:U
                                             m   u     - ~
                                             C I . " . "



                                             - --
                                             O u r *
                                             *'a*."



                                             - --
                                             2 4 r *
                                             *a+."

                                                                                           -l m t A

                                                                    KEIAU mICUL-L    DC.EL.0-       VROJECT (CREDIT WO-Ill)

                                                                                 MOJCCT U)WLCl10* REPORT




                                               Ylthnut                                                                                                             Tear 13
                                               prnJCct  Tear I   Teat 2   Tear 3   Tear 4      Tear 5     ear 6    Tear 1   Tear 8 ear 9  Tear I0 Tear ll Tear II a d after




     -Total                                        - - - n
                                                   6m      nnn      a         o    ~      ~       @     6     o     o     ~   ~   ~   _    I    .  r     o   a   ~     I   . (  O

      Total nperatlns Cants
        (Inrlndlnn la all^        I a h r )     !,lm              &@
        ( ~ ~ r l w l l nfmally
                          n       lmhnr)            - 2 . 2 6 5 -




      Total l n r r r r n t m l h t l n c n         -   (6,935)  (3,QW      (rnr)                                  ~r,llo          2).2)0


I m Irrv1.r.l  1.-     7 1 % C P In C A l .


                                                                         -
                                                                         tnDtA

                                                KERAU AGRICULTURAL DEVULOn&IIT PROJltCT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                                                               PROJECT C0)RLETIOII REPORT


                                                           raaheu Rehabilitation-  I ha Model
                                                                          (Rs)


                                     Pre-                                                                                          Tear I1
                                    project   Year I    Tear 2   Year 3   Tear 4    Year 5   Tear 6  Tear 7  Tear 8 Tear 9 Tear 10 and after


    capital Costs
      Inputs
        Plantfne mtcrlal


         Total Capital Costs

    Operating Costs
      tnpota
        tertilizera
        .Plant protcctlon

         Subtotal                         -                                                                     = ' -
                                                                    390                         I40     - -
                                                                                                         140           390   - -
                                                                                                                              390      390
I                                        -      -3 0 0 -320         - - - -  390       390                                                    I
*
u,
        Uaintenance &
I       Harvesting &

                                                                                                                                               !
         Subtotal                     -450             1,490      1,410    2,020     2,195    2.230   2.190  21325   2,145 2,))0     2.6(0

         Total Operating Costa        - 1,9)0
                                       450              1,883     1,800              2,585    2,370   2.630  2J&                                1
                                                                                                                                              i
    Productlon of Nuts (kg)            1 60      160      114        82      300       362      375     466     408    450    487      525      1
                                                                                                                                                i

    tncor
      Croma income
      k t incow
                                                                                                                                                I
         Incremental Net Income          --   (1,530)  (1,939)   (2.288)    (420)       - -                     - -        1.101
                                                                                        07      445   !,lsa     463    80s                      I
                                                                                                                                                I

    /r  Incldea mrn~rin~,Flrc and plant protectlon.
        Includea harvestins, collectIon, transporting, drying and prckln~,and theFt prcrentlnn.
        No unurin~.

             p I
         : 2   2*
         a * * m
         m o m s
         a r
         m e
         0 m

         a6q
           a
         2




I,I,.
  ,

                                                                    -
                                                                    Table 30
                                   -I N D U

           K E U AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                          PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


            Coconut New Planting/Rehabilitation (With Irrigation)
          Capital and Operating Coats -  Banana Intervlantin~(1 ha)
                                    (Rn)


                                   Without                          Year 2
                                   project          Year 1         and after


Capital Coats
  Inputa
   Planting materials
    ~ertilizerr
   Organic manure
    Plant protection
   Plant support

     Subtotal                             -          2.650               --
                                         0




 Wages
   Holing/planting


     Subtotal                             -            -
                                                       920               -
                                         0




    Total Capital Coats

Operating Corts
  Inputs
    Fertilizera
    Organic manure
   Plant protection
    Irrigation charger
                                      - -
     Subtotal                          430             300           1.990

 Wager
    Maintenancm
    Harvarting
                                                                      -
     Subtotal                         - -
                                       290             680             400
                                      -
     Total Opmrating Coats             720

     Total Cortr                      -720

Cross income                        1,520

     Net Income                       -800            3.770          5,840

                                                                     Table 31



                                   -INDIA

           KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                          PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                 Coconut Rehabilitation (Without Irrigation)
         Capital and Operating Costs - Garden Crops (Tapioca) ( 1 ha)
                                    (Rs)


                               Without                               Year 4
                               project   Year 1   Year 2   Year 3    and after


Capital Costs
  Inputs
    Planting materials
    Fertilizers
    Organic manure

 Wages

     Total Capital Costs

Operating Costa
  Inputs
  -




    Fertilizers
    Organic manure

  Wages                           280       280      820      840        860

     Total Operating Costa        - -
                                  435       435    1,680    1,700      1.720

     Total Costa                  - -
                                  435       435    1,850    1,870      1,890

Cross income                    1,800     1,800    3,660    3,935      4,245

                                                                        Table 32
                                      -
                                      INDIA

             KERALA ACRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                            PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


        Capital and Operatinu Costs f o r 0.1 ha Fodder and One Mllk Cow
           i n Coconut Rehabilitation Disease-Affected Areas (Rainfed)
                                       (R8)


                                                                       Year 3
                                     Year 1            Year 2         and a f t e r


Capital Costa
 Purchaae of cow /a-
  Cattle shed

  Fodder Establishment
   Planting materials
   ~ e r t i l;err
               i
   Organic manure
   Wagea (hired)

    Total Capital Costa

Operating Costa   &
 Feeds
   Paddy straw
   Concentrates

  Service and Other Charges
   Insurance
   Breeding
   Vaccination
   Vet and medical care

     Total Operating Corta

     Total Coatr

Gross Incoum.
  Milk
  Cow dung

     Total Grooa Income

     Net Income


/a Replacement of cow i n Year 9.
   Four lactationr.

                        - .     --             -      -
                                                  --a  .

                                                           Table 33




      KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                              PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


 Smmary of Financial Prices of Outputs and Inputs (1986 prices)




Outputs
  Coconut (Rs/nut)
  Cocoa (dried)
  Pepper
  Crumb rubber (ex-factory)
  Cashew (Rs/raw nut)
  Tapioca
  Banana
  Htlk ( l i t e r )

Inputs
  Seedlings (Rslseedling)
    Coconut (improved hybrid)
    Coconut (local hybrid)
    Cocoa
    Camhew
    Pepper (cutting)
    Banana (sucker)
    Fodder seed (-/kg)

  F e r t i l i z e r s (Rslkg)
    Urea (N)
    P
    K
    10:4:14
    10:5:20
    10:4:16
                       -
    Lip. (-/kg)
    Chemical             MgS04 ( ~ s l l i t e r )
    Conpoet (-/kg)
  -
  Labor (Rslmaa-day)


                                                                                -ah      Flew  - I r r l 8 a t d Cocart lhw P I a n t l y with Wrden C r q . (Iha)
                                                                                                             (bI n I906 conatant prlcea)



                                        Ulthaut                                                                                                                                                                     Tear I 7
                                        p r a k c t Tcrr I Tcrr 2         Tear 3         Tcrr 4 Tear 5 Tcar 6          Tear 1 t c e r 0        Tcar 9 Tear I 0 Tear ll Tear I 2 Veer 13 T u r I 4 Tear I 5 Tear I 6 end after


I n f l a

  kt ( m a           &


       -
       Total                                                               1.))1           2.617     2,611                      (4.447)        ?,II? 1.0n 10.~11        14,675  11.03   20.665    20.665   1 4 . w  lo.u,


                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
  P r l l r l p m l repaymrrt for
     I w t e m loan       &                    -                    -             -                                        -                    1.000   3.500    5,314  5,314   5.314    5.314     5.314




-
/b   Intereat r a t e of     lm  p.m.: repayment nver I 5 yrmrs lncludlng 6-year Rraee pcrlod.

-
/c   AmmmIn~Intereat charged r t 102 p.m.           nn 502 n l t n t r l o p e r a t l n ~costs (Table 18).

                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                         I m I A

                                                                                             KCIALA AClICULTUUAl M V E L O M PROJECT (CREDIT 680-111)

                                                                                                             PROJECT COWLtTIU4 ICPOW


                                                                             r r a h Ilw Irrlmated C o c a t Icr, P l a r t l n l r l t h Isterplmntrd ~ M (Ihm)
                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                            M
                                                                                                           ( I n I s I986 canatant prlcea)

  -
                                              Ylthnut                                                                                                                                                         Tear I ?
                                              p r n k c t  Tear I Tear 2       Tear 3       Tear 6   Tear 5 Tear 6      Tear 7   Tear 8       Tear 9 Tear 10 Tear 11 Tear 12 Tear 11 Tear 14 Tear 15 tear 16  and a f t e r


   l n f l w

     Irt I w a      &                            ROO      (I6.34R)  3.066        2.199        1.93    1.993     2,714   4,140       1lOfl      7   7  0   9  I , 17.832      20.970  23.822  23.822  22.362&   23.R22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I




     P r l w l p l r e p p e n t for
         low-term l o r n   &

     Intercat

        b w t e r m loan    /C
 I
CJ      Zhort-tcm loan
\D        -
          T o t a l
 I
          kt ah rt-



  -
  l a Met Incame excludlnn lmmlly labor (Tnble 19).                                                                                                                                                                           i
  -
  I b    Intereat r n t e 01 102 p.m.:     repayment over I 5 yearn Including 6-year Rracr perled.

  -                                                                                                                                                                                                                            !
  I c   k a r l n 8 Intereat c h a r ~ c da t 102 p.n. o n 502 at t o t a l o p e r a t l n ~canta (Tahle 19).                                                                                                                I
  -
  I d RrpIace+nt        o f m a r t .                                                                                                                                                                                         !

1s- ; -

     9
2 : *
a    -  2
.1
: % i- -
:3:
2
- - 0   :
        =
I
* :. 8    1

        -
a       w
     *
j i t
-
' "3 ?-
0 2 z
."
a    m  *
          r"
a    -  0
- -
M    U  "

S    ::
2    -
     a
8
-    -
     a
0
?
--   I
a    3
     a
n3   s
      I
n    a
2   :
- :          E l l               .' ,-'
                                C r s
     3

                   I    a    a
-2z?3

3. .z




                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                             l m r A


                                                                                             KLIALA ACUICVLTVUL bCVCWMUrt ?IOJCCT (CICIDIT 680-lU)

                                                                                                                  PROJECT (bMLCTlOl( REMIT



                                                                                   Camh Clor  - l r r l ~ a t e dCocomt k k b l l l t a t t o m 4 t h ?adder and Dairy (Iha)
                                                                                                                ( I s 1n 1916 ronmtmnt prlcem)




                                              Yl thout                                                                                                                                                                    Tear I 7
                                               project         T r r r I Yrnr 2       Year 3  Tear 4      Tear 5     Tear 6   Tear 7         Tear 8   Tear 9  Tear I 0 Tear I! Tear I 2 Tear 13 Tear I 4 Veer I 5 Tear 16 and a f t e r



 In1la


   net I n c a       &

   I.onm-trm loan


         Total

O.tllw

   ? r l m l p a l repapent l o r
      loma-term l o r n       &

   Imtereet


      La-term          l o r n&

   I Short-tern lorn          &
  b
  a    -Total
   I
        k t caah CIW



-
l a kt I n c a rmcludlng 1amIIy labor (Trhle 23).

-
lb Replaccrnt o f prpaet.

-
Ic   Irplrcement of o m cm.


I?   I n t r r e a t r a t e 01 101 p.m.: r c p r p r n t n r r r llrr y r r r s lncludln6 5-yemr @rareperlad.

I*Anrulng
-                    Intereat charged a t 102 p.m.        on 501 of t o t a l oprratlng comta (Tmblr 23).

                                                                                                -
                                                                                      U a h ?lw Pepper Rehmbllltrtlol (Iha)
                                                                                            (I.1986conatantprloa)
                                                                                                I n




                                             Ylt h ~ t                                                                                                                             Temr I 6
                                             p r o k c t Tear 1  Tear Z      Tear 3  Tear 4  Tear 5 Tear 6 Tear ?  Tear 8 Tear 9 Tear 10 Tear 11 Tear 12 Tear I 3 Tear I 4 Tear 15 and after




           -
           Tota1

    fhtlla

                                                                                                                                     -       -                -                 -
       P r l u l p a l repayment f o r
         l m a - t r r m laan&                                            -       -       -   1.100  1 . m  1,100   1 . m  1.~10                      -                -
       Intereat

         Long-term laan      fi
 I

00       Short-trrr loan
\O        -Total
 I

           lkt U r h     rlou


  - /a   kt I n c a e~cludln8famI17 labor (Table 26).
  - I b  Intereat r a t e o f I02 p.m.:  repayment ewer f l v e p a r a lncludlng 5-par grmce perled.

  - I c  r a a u l n g Intercat charmed a t I02 p.a.    an 50%of t o t a l epratlnm coata (Table 26).

                                                                              Table 63


                                         -INDIA

                 KERALA AGRICULTUUL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                               PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                 Operatinn Income of the Plantation Corporation of India
                             (Rs million in constant prices)


               Rcvenues                         Operating costs                  Net
       Rehabil-   Nev            Rahabil-    Nev     Rehabil-    Nev          operating
IT     itation  planting  Total  itation   planting  itation   planting Total  income




Source:  PCK.


                                                                           Table 45


                                        -INDIA

          ICEICALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                           PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


         Financial Analysis of tha Plantation Corporation of Kerala
                     (Rs million i n 1986 constant prices)


         Capital costs                             Net operating    Net incremental
 FY     (current prices)       Capital coats          income           income




-
/a Asrumlng praproject r i t w t i o n for production cortr of Rr 0.3 million and
   grorr income of R. 0.5 million.

-               - - - -        -            -.
     ' V '

$ L ~ ; ~ l i i f ...
--   ..-"                               1:
             a a o r                        ?=
                                            i!
                .- .- ."
B ~ ; r e $ a i ~- g :
-    -                                    -
                               4


                                            -.
             b                              2;5 1
                . - - -
                   r        - - o m -
                            -hi k
                            .. .
     - - L

g f t t j t j e j
-                                              -
     .-         .-.-    - , j f r I:
                               -   -        +
                         ;.t d $- ,I!;I
        -4 L
t : r f r t ; t f t r       -
                                 o w

                                                                                   Table 47



                                              -
                                              INDIA

                         ACRIC(;TLTURUDEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                                   PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                            Financial Aqalysie of the Seed Garden
                                             (RS'OOO)


             Invee tment   Operating                Total costs
             -cos(Current           --
   FY              ts        C O B ~ S    Current prices   Constant prices Revenue   Balance
                          prices)                                          (Constant prices)




-
/a  The following wholesale price indices were ueed during FP77178-VP85186:    2.00, 2.00,
    1.71, 1.44, 1.32,  1.29, 1.18,    1.10 and 1.08.

Note:  FY86-88 including additional investment costs f o r buildinga and equipment.

                                                                                                                                                              *
                                                                                                                                                'u-d ZS-ZI    5
                                                                                                                                               -**d xsc-I  I
                                 ' O J l l *JJ   amm*P 03 anP O L U ul uOB3anPJd Ou p r o LLM  ~1 olqsl)eru uaey uy  -uula~r,alu aaafordard o r r 10-1111     .I




-                                                                                                                                             -
       2'0   C'O 9'0   S'O   9'0    U'O       I      C ' I   Z ' I   2'1                        --
                                                                           2.0   -              -     *-    -                                  af amaaauy
                                                                                           -
                                                                                           --               -      --
1'0    1'0   1'0 1'0   1'0   1'0    1'0       9'0    9'0     S'O     S'O   1.0   -                                                       w ~ a - ~ a m ~ m ~ l g ~
tea tg(t ism 1         1-OE a                                                                          --          -
                                    O*OZ      o-IZ   t-OI O-SI       I     C-z   -                                              M3M3 h ) a . ~ d O 6 0 a S 0 ~
                                                                                                                                           .a-     -Barn**




-                                                                                         -
                                                                                          --
       2'0   C'O 9'0   ('0   9'0    6'0       1'1    S ' I  2'1      Z     ('0   -              --     --         --
1'0    1'0  1'0  1'0   1'0   1'0    1'0       9'0    9'0    9'0     9'0    2'0                  -      -    ---   -
L.(L   1.0~ 1    1's 1-OF.1         I         o-rz   O-IZ    I-61   0      oat   --

uoct ogct   ugcl ogct  o*ct  o0rl   9.5       0.1%   I*VZ    1.a    coo    u*c            -
                                                                                          -
                                                                                          -
                                                                                                -
                                                                                                --     --
Q O I I- 2  QQIt WZ QOIZ - 2        o m 2 m 1 00)'I         022'1   ms     OZZ   ---
co     co   co   ca   n      co                                                                        -    ---   ---
                                    19        09     19     I)      11     1
-                     - -cgc- - -8.1- -                             -     -
9.c    5T  5T i55      t S c        cot              1.1    COO           0-1   7 m . X L'O                 =     -
                                                                                                                  -
-                                                                             ...
, ~ r n ) ' ( L 1 ' Q ) ' l t ( ' WI'(l0'01K                                              O ' ) F T =             -
                                                                                                                  -
-      -    -
                 2.0   2.0   COO    LOO       O'I    C.1   0.1             1-0   1-0      9-0   -     -     -     --
1'0     1'0  1'0 1'0   1'0   1'0    1'0       9%     9'0    L'O     )'O    o     9%       2-0   1-0   C-0         -
1'U 1.U 1        1 ' s 1'K   lo# O'IC
                                    lo# 1-42                2 2     6'CI   6.0   2         1')  1')         --

                                                                                                              Table 49



                                                               I N D I A

                                     KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPI(ENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                                                    PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT


                                       Operating Income of a 10-ton Crumb Rubber Factory

                            (Typical Crumb Rubber Factory f o r Palghat, Thodupuzha and Hurattupuzha)
                                                 (Rs million i n current prices)




Production (tons)

Capacity u t i l i z a t i o n ( X )

Revenue                                           3.4     17.2       20.6  25.8  31.0  34.4   43.0   43.0  43.0   43.0

Operating Costs
  Factory operating c o s t s
  Administration
  I n t e r e s t

       Total Operating Costs                     -3.3    ---------
                                                          16.5       19.8  25.5  30.9  33.3   39.8   39.7  39.5   39.4

       Operating Income ( D e f i c i t )        - - - -
                                                  0.1      0.7         0.8  0.3  - - - - -
                                                                                 0.1    1.1    3.2   .-3.3  3.5    3.6



-
/a   For only three months.

Source:       Rubber Board (RB),      KRMF and CRHSs.


                                                                                          Table 51



                                                       -INDIA

                               KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                                             PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                                Cash Flow for a Typical 10-ton Crub Rubber Factory
                                        (Palghat, Thodupuzha, Hurattupuzha)
                                           (Re million in current pricee)




   Net operating incorn
I

h  Long-term loan
h

I
    BOK/RB/CRC(S ehares

       Total

  Outlow

    Investment costs

   Long-term loan repayment

       Total

       Net Caeh Flow



  Source:  RB, KRHF and CRHS.

                                                                                    Table 52




                           AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)


- .                                PROJECT COWLETION REPORT

                                           -
                        Financial Analysis   6 Crumb Rubber Factories
                                         (Ra million)



             Investment  Operating            Inver t m n t Operating    Revenues/b
                                              -
     FY        costs       costs    Revenuer    costs         cost8
             -(Current                                                Net incremental Balance
                            price81  --
                                                           (1986 constant prices/a)----------




 -
 /a  Current prices adjusted by the wholesale prico index.

 -
 /b  Average 1986 price of R8 17.2lkg.
 -
 / C Aseuming FY80 operating costs and revenuer as preproject situation for Palai Factory in
     FY81.  Net revenue of Rs 0.4 millfon.

                                                                Table 53


                                       -
                                       INDIA

      KeRurr AGRICVtTURAL DEVXLOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                             PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


               Summary of Economic Prices of Outputr and Inputs
                     (Projected 1990 i n 1986 conrtant prices)




Outputs
  Coconut (Rs/aut)         /a
  Cocoa /a
  pePper7k
  Carhew
  Crumb rubber (ex-factory)         /a
  Tapioca       /b
  Banana /b
  Milk /b--
Inputs
  Seedlings (Rs/seedling) /b
    Coconut (improved hybrid)
    Coconut (local hybrid)
    Cocoa
    Cashew
    Pepper (cutting)
    Banana (sucker)
    Fodder seed (Rslkg)

        -
  F e r t i l i z e r (Rslkg) /a
                             -
    N        45%
        -    Nutrient
    P        46%
        -    Nutrient
    K        60%
             Nutrient
    1:4:14
    1O:S:ZO
    10:4t 16
    L a /b
    Chemical (*Sob)           (Ru/liter) /c
                                         -
    Comport         /b

  Unskilled agricultural labor (R./mn-day)


/a Table 17.
Ib
-   Financial prices ad.justed by SCF of 0.890.
    Financial price adjusted by SCF of 0.95.

                                                                             Table 54


                                           -
                                           INDIA

               KER&A    AGRICULTURAL, DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                                 PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                                  Economic Price of Copra
                                   (1986 constant value)


                                                            Unit                1990


World market prices      /a

Ocean freight adjustment

Adjustment f o r spoilage and losses     /c

CIF'IFOB (US$l.O = Rs 12.5)

Unloading/port cost

Value a t s t o r e i n main port

Transport and distribution       /d

Adjustment for losses      /e

Cost of drying to 5X moisture /f    -
Farm-gate price (copra)      &

                      (nut)/h


-
/a Copra (Philippines/Indonesia, bulk, CIP Northwest Europe) from IBIU) Commo-
-    d i t y Prica Forecast, August 1986.
/b   Assuming that India will be a net importer and Kerala net exporter of
     copra.
-
/c   Three percent spoilage and losses i n international transport.
     Estimated financial cost of Rs 90 f o r transport and Rs 50 f o r distribution
     adjusted by SCF of 0.8.       .

-
/e   Estimated a t 5% a c t u a l material loss due t o insects and spoilage.
     Copra sold ex-farm on the basis of 15%moisture content, compared with 5%
     f o r internationally traded copra.
7ft./Price of copra with 15%moisture content.
     142 g r a m of copra per f r e s t nut plus additional returns from hunk
     (Rn 200/1,000 nuts) and s h e l l (Rs 50/1,000 nuts).

                                                                                 Table 55



                                            -
                                            INDIA

                 ltERALA AGRICULTURAt DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                                 PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                                 Economic Price Structures
                          (Projected.l990 i n 1986 constant pricea)


                               Cocoa-  Pepper      Caahew      Urea  TSP     MOP     RSS 1


World market price /a
  (US$/ton)

Over freight

CIF/FOB Cochin (US$/ton)

CIF/FOB Cochin (Rs/ton) /b

Transport, handling and
  processing costa

Pam-gnte prices (1986)


Nutrient


-




/a  World market prices, World Bank Commodity Price Forecnsts, August 1986.
                 -
0




          Cocoa     Daily average price, New York and London, RSS 1:   Spot New York.
          Urea   = FOB Northwest Europe
                 -
          TSP        FOBUSGulf
          MOP    = FOB Vancouver



-
/c  Eatimated FOB Cochin.

-
/d  Garbled.



/f  Kernel.
0


la  Raw nut.

-
/h  Adjusted t o RSS 3 grade (97%of the value of RSS 1).

                                                                                                                                                  Table 56
                                                                                 INDIA

                                                 KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                                                                  PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                                                      Econoaic Analyeis   - I r r i g a t e d Coconut New Planting
                                                                           (Rs m i l l i o n )


                                             Incremental c o s t e /a                                        I n c r e r e n t a l benef ite /a
                               E l e c t r i c re-             Fodder      Garden                                                 Garden
     FY        Coconut         t i c u l a t i o n l b
                                                 -     Banana  b d a i r y crop8          T o t a l Coconut Banana      Milk       crops    T o t a l Balance




                                                                             ERR = 3%


 -  /a Costs and b e n e f i t s a r e based on approximately 17% of t o t a l banana a r e a , 16% and 11% of fodder a r e a and
       garden c r o p s a r e a , respectively.
 -  /b Tables 35 and 36 adjusted by the wholesale price index and CF of 0.85.                                    Aeeuming 17% o f t o t a l e l e c t r i c
,      r e t i c u l a t i o n costs.

                                                                  Table 57


                                  -INDIA

          KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                         PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                             - Unirri~atedCoconut
           Economic Analysir                       New Planting
                               (R.million)


        Incremental cost stteama      Incremental benefit streams
                  Garden                         Garden
 FY     Coconut   crops&     Total    Coconut    crops&     Total  Balance




                                 ERR = lox

-
/a Costs and banafitr ara barad on 15%of total gardan crop8 area.

                                                                                                                 Table 58     ,
                                                                                                                              I


                                                             I N D I A

                                   KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT680-IN)

                                                   PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT


                                     Economic Analysis - Irrigated Caconut Rehabilitation
                                                         (Re million)


                         Incremental cost e treams /a                           Incremental benefit etreame
    m e c t r i c re-                           Fodder  Garden                                        Garden
 FY  ticulation&       Coconut  Banana  Cocoa   L dairy crope      Total Coconut Banana Cocoa Milk    crope  Total Balance




                                                           ERR = 3%


/a Costs and benefits are based on 83%of total banana and fodder area,        100%of cocoa and 56%of garden crop areas.
76 Tablee 54 ahd
-                    56 adjusted by the wholesale price index and CF of 0.85.   Aeeuning 83% of total coete.

                                                                                            Table 59



                                                -INDIA

                     KERALA AGRICULW DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                                       PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT


                     Economic Analysis    - Unirrigated Coconut Rehabilitation
                                             (Rs million)


              Incremental cost stream8                      Incremental benefit streams
       Discare  Disease     Garden    Fodder          Diseare   Disease Garden
 M      free     area       crops&    6 dairy  Total   f tee     area    crop8   Milk  Total Balanc~




                                                   -
                                               ERR   3%



-
/a Bered on 19% of t o t a l garden crop area and 1% of fodder area.

                                                             -Table 60


                             -INDIA

      KEULA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPPIENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                    PROJECT COMPLETZON REPORT

                              - Peppar
            Economic Analysis          Rehabilftatlon
                          (Ra million)

                         - ---


FY      Incremental costs          Incremental beaafltr        Balance




                             -
                         ERR   W a r 70%

                                                                                                         Table 61

                                                        INDIA

                               KERALA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                                              PROJECT COWLETION REPORT


                                      Economic Analyeia -- Smallholder Component
                                                   (bmillion)


                          Incremental coats /a                            Incremental benefits /a

             sion  8FSSdF%k                    Pepper Total      D%%%          &%&           Pepper Total  Balance




                                                         -
                                                     ERR    28.32

- -


-
/a CNP = coconut new planting; Rehab. = coconut rehabilitation.

                                                                                         Table 62


                                             -INDIA

                K E U AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                                  PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                         Economic Analysis       - Cashew Development
                                          (Re million)



                      Incremental costs                       incremental^ benefits /d
                    New       Other        Over-                        New
                   plant-     dev.         head                        plant-
        ~ahab./o   ing/a    coats&       c o s t s k  Total  ahab.     ing /c   Total      Balance




                                                 -
                                           ERR      202

-
/a Tables 44 and 45 adjuated by economic pricea (Table 56) and conversion f a c t o r ~ npara.
-  5.23.
/b Table 46 aaauming 452 of t o t a l capital costa adjusted by CF of 0.75 ( c i v i l works and
   equipment1.
/c Table 46 adjuated by SCF of 0.80.
   Table 46 adjusted by economic price.
   Negligibla during R83-86.

                                                                      Table 63


                                     -
                                     1NDIA

           KERA3.A AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                           PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                 Economic Analysie-  Six Crumb Rubber Factories
                                  (Ra million)


            Inveetment       Operating                         Net incremental
 FY          coats /a        coats /b         Benefits /c
                                                      -            benefits




                                   ERR = 21%


-
/a Table 51.   ksrrning 50%of foreign exchange costa plus 50%local costa,
-  adjusted by SCF of 0.80.
/b Table 51, net of interest charges.    Assuming 5%of foreign exchange coats
   plus 95%of local coats, adjusted by SCF of 0.80.
-
/c Table 51, adjurted by econo~nicprice in Table 55.
   k s d n g preproject operating coats and benefits for the Palai Factory.

                                                                  -
                                                                  Table 64


                          -
                          INDIA

        ACRICULTUUL DEVtLOPntNT PROJECT (CREDIT 680-IN)

                PROJECT COWLETION REPORT

                              - Whole
            ~conomic'Analysis            Project
                       (Ra million)


      Incremental coats                  Incremental benefits
Small-                          S m d l -
holder Carhaw  Rubber           holder Cashew      Rubber
deval- devel- procerr-          devel-    devel-  procerr-
opmant opmant    ing     Total opment opment         ing     Total Balance




                           -
                       ERR   24.51

K I R A L A A Q R I C U L T U R A L D I V I L O P M E N I ' P R O J E C T (CREDl1- 8 8 0 . 1 ~ )




                                                            KERALA STATE
                                                  PROJECT LOCATION

Chart 1



