Docuin     t1E i  ( 1  I  t:  X'
The Wo,         Rol) -'t NI(j. .T N           pEJ<     Tv pF   (I C
CT,AVT,<iCJ    7 ..::ul'.!,:X 'I !)§@'fl'*' / (JlIill
FOR OFFCL'
Report No. 9659
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1339-NEP)
JUNE 14, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
1 Nepalese Rupee (NRs)    - US$0.044 (1987/88-project completion)
1 US$                      - NRsl3.20 (1982-appraisal)
- NRsl5.50 (1983/84-project start)
- NRs22.55 (1987/88-project completion)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 hectare (ha)             - 2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)           - 0.62 miles (mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)       -  2.205 pounds (lb)
1 kilogram (kg)            - 2.2 pounds
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADBN     - Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
APROSC   - Agricultural Projects Services Center
BSF      - Birganj Sugar Factory
CCDP     - Cash Crop Development Project
DOA      - Department of Agriculture
ERR      - Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP   - Food and Agriculture Organization/IBRD Cooperative Programme
FCV      - Flue Cured Virginia
HMGN     - His Majesty's Government of Nepal
IDA      - InternatiA.onal Development Association
JCF      - Janakpur Cigarette Factory
MOA      - Ministry of Agriculture
PCC      - Project Coordinating Committee
PCR      - Project Completion Report
SAR      - Staff Appraisal Report
T&V      - Training & Visit System
TDC      - Tobacco Development Company
HMGN (BORROWER'S) FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15



FOR OFFiCIL UK OILY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
0.e d Of gctiwCwiw&
Opmtiuww IvalUn
June 14, 1991
MEORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND TE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Nopal
Cash Crop Doveloomont Proiect (Credit 1339-REP)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Nepal - Cash Crop Development Project (Credit 1339-NEP)"
prepared jointly by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programe and the Asia
Regional Office vith Part II of the report contributed by the Borrover. No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their oMcial duties. :s co cents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authordtbon.



FOR OFFCIAL US ONLY
CASH CRLOP DMVELPMET PROJECT
(Cr. 1339-UP)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF-CONTENTS
Page No.
P   FACF    .*.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             .      i
EVALUATION SUIAY    .*...  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . . it
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PESPECTIVE
Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                  1
Background   .1...  .            .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   . .
Project Objectives  and Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 1
Project Design and Organization  ....  .                     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  2
Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                  3
Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                  4
IDA Performance  ....  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  10
Borrower Performance   ....  .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  11
Project Relationship   ....  .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  12
Consulting Services  ....  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  12
Project Documentation and Data   ....  .                     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  12
PART  II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   ...  .                           .  .  .  .     .  13
PART III -STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related IDA Credits  ....  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  16
Project Timetable  ....  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  17
Credit Disbursements   ....  .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  17
Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Project Costs and Financing  ....   .                  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .     .  20
Project Costs    ....  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  20
Project Financing   ....  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  20
Project Results  ....  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  21
Direct Benefits    .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                21
Economic Impact   . . . . ....   .                 .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .     .  21
Financial Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
Studies   ....  .            .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .    .  21
Status of Covenants  ....  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  22
Use of IDA Resources ........................ .   23
Staff Inputs  (staff weeks)  ....  .                  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  23
Missions ...... .                                                                                    23
MAPS
IBRD 16603
IBRD 16604R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorintion.



i
NiAL
CASH CROP DEvLOPHIUT PROJECI
(Cr. 1339-NHP)
nWOECST COMSYTION REPORT
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Cash Crop
Development Project for vhich a credit of US$6.0 million (SDR 5.6 million) was
approved on March 22, 1983.  The Credit closed on December 31, 1988 with an
informal extension of six months to cover all applications received through June
1989. A balance of US$1.58 million (SDR 1.48 million) remained unspent and was
canceled as of June 30, 1989.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the PAO/World Bank Cooperative
Programme which visited Nepal in November 1990, the Agricultural Operations
Division of Asia Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the
Borrower (Part II). The PCR is based, inter alia. on the Staff Appraisal Report,
the Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between IDA
and the Borrower, and discussions with staff of the various implementing
agencies, and farmers.



iii
(Cr. 1332-gMM
PROJECT C=qXLT10N REPORT
EVALUATION
Obiectives
i.          The main  objectives of  the project were  to:  (a) promote  the
commercial production of sugarcane, tobacco and oiseeds (mustard/rape);
(b) initiate pilot development of sericulture and groundnut; and (c) stren8then
the existing ginger research facilities. The objectives were to be achieved by:
(i) increasing yields on areas already planted to sugarcane, tobacco and
oilseeds; (it) improvement of research and agricultural extension services; and
(iii) provision of credit to growers. Further, the pilot scheme for sericulture
development included the establisument of 150 hectares (ha) of mulberry.
construction of facilities, provision of staff, equipment and training as well
as farm credit. Support to groundnut production was concentrated on varietal
selection, seed propagation and farm credit. Ginger development wse expected to
improve by strengthening agronomic research, testing drying mnits and the
executior. of a marketing study (paras 2 and 3).
ImDlementation Exverience
ii.         The project was to be implemented over a five year period, starting
in July 1983, with an estimated completion date of July 1988. Total costs were
estimated at US$7.33 million (NRo96.76 million) and ar IDA credit of
US$6.0 million was made available (para 9).
iii.        The complex nature of institutional arrangements hampered project
coordination and management (para 7). Throughout implementation, the Project
Coordinating Committee and its sub-committees never functioned effectively, and
the three consecutive project coordinators were not provided the required
authority to direct project activities (para 10).
iv.         For the purpose of project implementation, sugarcane and tobacco
extension were to be transferred from the Birganj Sugar Factory and the Tobacco
Development Company, respectively, to the Department of Agriculture in line with
the institutional objective of bringing extension urder a unified command. This
transfer was not accomplished for about three years, leading to a lack of clarity
as to the responsibilities of the respective agencies, which led to poor services
to farmers.   In addition,  the transfer of tobacco research from Tobacco
Development Company to Department of Agriculture was delayed by over two years
(para 10).
v.          In addition to problems in management, extension and research, the
prices fixed by Government for sugarcane, tobacco and silk cocoons failed to
provide the required incentives to farmers for productivity and/or quality
improvements (paras 16, 20 and 28).
vi.         The project closed on December 31,  1988.   Due largely to the
depreciation of the Nepalese Rupee against the U.S. dollar, savings were



iv
accumulated and a resulting unspent balance of the IDA credit, amounting to
US$1.58 million, was :anceled (para 9)Y
Results
vii.        It was envisaged at appraisal that there would bes (d) no increase
in the area planted to sugarcane and mustard/rape; (e) limited expansion in the
area under tobaccol and (f) successful project implementation leading to annual
incremental production of about 72.,00 tons of sugarcane. 960 tons of
mustard/rape due to yield increases and 1,600 tons of tobacco due to yield and
area increases. It was also envisaged that the project would lead to an annual
incremental production of 245 tons of groundtuts and 115 tons of fresh silk
cocoons due to area increases. With the exception of mustard/rape, none of the
above production targets was achieved.  Sugarcane. mustard/rape and tobacco
yields did not increase significantly, and the area under tobacco cultivation
decreased by about 40%kV.  However, the area under mustard/rape cultivation
increased by about 15,000 ha (662), mainly due to farmers giving up tobacco
growing, and the production of mustard/rape increased by about 9,600 tons. This
latter increase, however, cannot be ascribed to the project. The groundnut pilot
program was a total failure and the sericulture program   fell short of
expectation by about 651, both in terms of area cultivated and yield/ha.
Finally, no progress was made in ginger devolopment.
viii.       At appraisal, the economic rate of return for the project as a whole
was estimated at 62Z. As almost all economic benefits were to be derived from
yield increases of the three major crops, no attempt has been made to re-
estimate the economic rate of return in the absence of significant yield
increases, as it would be negative (para 34).
Findings and Lessons Learned
ix.         Project design was too complex, and in an attempt to cover 12
districts and 6 different crops, project resources were spread too thin and
project organization and management became cumbersome.  Data for crop yields
under farm conditions were overestimated and the availability of relevant
technology was ill assessed. Implementation further suffered from weak extension
and research support and inadequate pricing policies to provide the required
incentive to producers.  The implementation experience suggests a number of
specific leesons (para 37 and 39).  In project design, complex institutional
arrangements should be avoided to minimize problems of project coordination and
management.  Care should be taken in assessing the data of crop yields, the
opportunities for increasing both yields and area under cultivation and the
availability of relevant technology (paras 15, 17, 19, 27).  Finally, policy
conditionality should be included in the design of crop-specific projects to
maintain the competitiveness of these commodities with potential substitutes
(paras 16, 20. 28).
Canceled amounts are shown at the original exchange rate, vis-a-vis the
SDR, but disbursed amounts are shown at the exchange rate applicable on
the transaction date.
v     This figures is at variance with that of the Borrower (Part II, para 48)
because of the use of a different database.
Suaarcane, tobacco, mustard/rape.



S-5J CROP DEVeLOPINT PROJECT
(Cr. 1339-NMP)
PROJECT COMPLETION RePORT
PARS x -  ROC  REVIIE         Ina' 5 PREPCTIe
Prgiect identity
Project Name                     Cash Crop Development Project
Credit No.                        1339-NEP
Vice Presidential Unit    t      Asia
Country                    :     Nepal
Sector                     3     Agriculture
Sub-sector                 s     Cash Crop
Bagkaround
1.        Agriculture dominates Nepal's economy, engaging about 90% of the labor
force and generating about two thirds of GDP. In 1981 about 90% of the cropped
area was assigned to foodgrains and the remaining 10% was under cash crops,
mainly oilseeds,1' jute, sugarcane and tobacco. Agricultural production has not
kept pace with population growth during the last twenty years.  The areas under
major crops have been increasing, but yields of foodcrops, with the exception of
wheat and potato, have almost stagnated or even declined. This was attzibuted
to:   ) poor performance of government-managed surface water irrigation systems;
and (b) shortcomings of the Government's delivery systems for inputs and services
(agricultural research and extension). The weak performance in foodcrops has
carried over to traditional cash crops, with the exception of sugarcane. As the
foodcrop sector was already supported by numerous ongoing and planned programs
(Part III, Section 1), His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMGN) requested IDA's
assistance for the developmf't of the cash crop sector, with the main goal of
enhancing self-sufficiency.
Proiect Objectives and DescriDtion
2.        Obiective    The project responded to one of the ifaportant aims of
HHGN's Sixth Development Plan, which called for increasing cash crop productlon
by strengthening farmer support services. The main objectives of the project
were to:   (a) promote the commercial production of sugarcane,  tobacco and
oilseeds (mustard and rape); (b) initiate pilot development of sericulture and
groundnutsl and (c) strengthen the existing ginger research facilities.   In
particular, the project was to increase sugarcane production in the major supply
areas around the Birganj Sugar Factory (BSF) to enable BSF to fill its entire
milling requirements from within a 30 km radius. Tobacco development aimed to
reduce by about 52% imports of high-quality tobacco required by the Janakpur
Cigarette Factory (JCF), and the oilseed component was to help reduce the
country's dependence on imports and create the required supply base for the
vegetable ghee industry which, in the absence of local production, was importing
all its raw materials (mostly groundnuts).
vI   Mustard and rape.



2
3.        95snanLa.  The project included the following componentsc
(a) increasing *ugarcan- yiolds on 4,660 hectare (ha) by improving
research and agricultural extension services, development of a seed
multiplication program, provision of short-term credit to cana
growers, and construction and upgrading of foeder roads;
1b) yield increase and improvement in quality of tobacco grown on 2,800 ha
by strengthening of research and extension services, improvement of
tobacco redrying facilities, provision of short and medium-term credit
to growers for production purposes and barn improvement, and providing
training and technical assistance to staff and farmerst
(c) increasing yields on over 4,800 ha of mustard and rape crops through
strengthening of research, provision of short-term credit to growers,
and pilot development of 350 ha of groundnut production through
research, varietal selection, seed production and production credit;
(d) pilot development of sericulture through establishment of 150 ha of
mulberry, provision of staff, training, vehicles, equipment and
facilities for silkworm production and rearing, and provision of short
and medium-term credit to farmers for nursery establishment, mulberry
cultivation and silkworm rearing; and
(C) strengthening ginger research and initiating a marketing study.
4.        The project was expected to be implemented over a five-year period at
a total cost of US$7.33 million. Civil works and farmer credits accounted for
30% and 33%, respectively, of the total project cost, and physical and price
contingencies  accounted  for  25%.    Overall  responsibility  for  project
implementation was vested with the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).
Proiect Desion and Organization
5.        Design.  In view of the limited availability of land for cash crop
production, the underlying concept of the project was to increase yields in
existing areas. This fitted well with HMGN's development strategy of enhancing
self-sufficiency and reducing import requir&ments. Cr. 1339-NEP was the first
IDA-financed project in support of cash crop production in the country, and inter
alia, aimed at consolidating sugarcane and tobacco extension and research. Theme
programs had fallen under the responsibility of different authorities, albeit
under the overall umbrella of the Department of Agriculture (DOA). The Training
and Visit (T&V) system of agricultural extension had already been introduced
uander provious projects in most of the project area (Part III, Section 1) and the
institutional framework for input supply and credit was already in place.
6.        The project was prepared by the Agricultural Projects Services Center
(APROSC), Nepal, with the arisistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme
(FAO/CP) in April 1982. It was appraised by IDA in May 1982. Although care was
taLen to prepare a project tailored to the most immediate needs of the cash crop
and related processing sector, project design suffered from a number of flaws.
They includeds (a) spreading resources per crop and district too thinly over 12
districts, and three major and three minor crops; (b) underestimating the
farmers' flexibility when allocating land, labor and financial resources to cash
or other competing crops and giving too little attention to the effects of the
price levels fixed for sugarcane and tobacco in relation to other crops;



3
(c) overestimating yild potentials of major ezops under farm conditions
reflecting inadequate co-noideration given to agronomic and land use aspectsl and
(d) failure to develop a systematic approach to sericulture development.
7.        Organizaton.   Overall  responsibility  for implementation of the
projoct was assigned to MOA to ensure coordination with other implementing
agencies via establishment of a Project Coordination Committee (PCC) chaired by
the Secretary of MOA.  Prior to negotiations, HMCN had decided to transfer
reponsibilities to DOA for sugarcane extension from BS? and for tobacco
extonsion and research from the Tobacco Developmant Company (TDC). DOA should
thus have become the sole agency in charge of research and extension for all
crops covered by the project from project start-up. This was not the case, as
nine other agencies bosides DOA were responoible for different project actions.
They included, inter alia, the Agricultural Development Dank of Nepal (ADBN),
which was the sole channel for institutional credit to farmors. The complexity
of the institutional arrangements hampered project coordinatic'n, management and
monitoring.
8.        In retrospect, it is evident that the project was based on a number
of over-optimistic assumptions,  including thati   (a) PCC could effectively
coordinate the activities of the various implementing agencies; (b) the sugar and
tobacco extension activities would be transferred to DOA; (c) the recently
introduced T&V system of extencion would be in a position to bring about rapid
changoe in crop husbandry; (d) relevant technology was available; and (6) the
price relationship between the cash crops supported under the project and
alternative crop options available to farmers would remain static throughout the
project period.
Proeoct Implementation
9.        Critical Variance. in Prolect I1ilwentati2n   The project was to be
implemented over a period of five years, ;tartirin in July 1983. Total cost was
estimated at US$7.33 mLllion (NR096.76 million) and an IDA credit of
US$6.0 million (SDR 5.6 million) was mad.e available.  The project closed on
schedule. Largely due to the depreciation of the Nepalese Rupee against the U.S.
dollar, cost aravings occurred, especially in the latter period of the project.
The resulting undisbursed balance of SDR 1.48 million (US$1.58 million)V was
canceled in June 1989.
10.       Throughout  implementation,  the  project  suffered  from  serious
management deficiencies.   Contrary to expectations,  PCC and the two sub-
committees for sugarcane and tobacco and for other crops, met infrequently and
did  not  demonstrate  the  required  leadership.    Three  successive  project
coordinators were responsible for implementation, none of them on a full-time
basis or possessing adequate powers to direct project activities. The transfer
of sugarcane and tobacco extension to DOA was not effected for about three years.
Similarly, the transfer of tobacco research to DOA was delayed more than two
years*
v    Canceled amounts are shown at the original exchange rate vis-a-vis the SDR,
but disbursed amounts are shown at exchange rates applicable on the
transaction date.



4
11.       Thu linkage between extension and research was very weak and no
organised on-farm/adaptive trials were carried out to develop approprLate
teohnological messages in response to farmers' needs. This lack was especially
felt in the artas of rainfed crops.  Even during the last two years of the
project, the ext nsion service, though more acti'7  than before, was ineffective
ln bringing about yield increase.  This was due to the scarcity of proven
technological packages. In addition to deficiencies in project coordination,
management, extension and research services, the prices fixed by HMON for
*ugarcane, tobacco and silk cocoons failed to provide the required incentives to
farzers to adopt technologies aimed at productivity and quality improvements.
This further contributed to the poor performance of the sub-components.
12.       Proi-ct Rku.  The Staff Appraisal Report (BAR) did not anticipate
any major project risks, mainly because it assumed that the already reformed
extension service would have the ability to develop and disseminate
recommendations, thus loading to yield increases needed for the project to be
viable. The SAR also assumed that the availability of suitable technology was,
ln  most  cases,  not  a  constraint.    In  contrast  to  these  assumptions,
implementation experience has shown that the extension service was neither in a
position to provide, nor provided with, the required incentives and training to
successfully implement the programs. Only in the last year of the project did
some improvement take place. Although research-based technology for improvement
was available for tobacco and irrigated sugarcane, the research/extension linkage
was too weak to introduce these technologies to the farmers. For most other
conditions (e.g., rainfed crops) hardly any technology was available which could
have been readily adopted by farmers. This especially affected the progress of
rainfed sugarcane and tobacco development and the sericulture component (paras
17, 19 and 27).
13.       Unforeseen  Factors  Affectina ProJect  Im2lementation.   The  four
districts supplying JCF suffered from hail storms in 1985 and 1986, and flood
damage and prolonged rainfall in 1987. As a result, tobacco production in the
project area was severely affected.
Proiect Results
14.       The overall project result was unsatisfactory.  As described below,
none of the components achieved its objectives, with the exception of oilseed
development.  However, the incremental production in mustard/rape cannot be
ascribed to the project (para 23).
15.       Sugarcane Develoyment. At appraisal it was assumed that the project
would increase overall production of sugarcane &o that BSF would be able to fill
its entire milling requirements from the surrounding Bara, Parsa and Rautahat
districn.  Production increases were expected to derive entirely in terms of
increased yields on the 4,660 ha (2,800 ha plant crop, 1,860 ha ratoon) already
planted to cane in those areas. In the case of plant crop, yields were expectet
to increase from 24 tons/ha to 46 tons/ha and for ratoon from 15 tons/ha to 30
tons/ha with a weighed average of about 40 tons/ha. Although precise statistical
data were not available to establish time series for areas under both crop types,
indications are that a slight shift in land allocation in favor of ratoon took



5
plaoeo The average yield figurseV, given below, clearly show that the yield
targets were not achieved. Therefore, the overall production was not increased.
Ihb (tea/h)    1960/81  1961/32  1963/33  1963/64   19415   19M3/6   1"6/7   1WM
PA" to Pret      255    28.0    27.6
Wik Poeot                               22.0    23.8      31.3     27.0    26.2
There wero various reasons for the failure to achieve increased sugarcane yields.
Throo;ghout the project, DOA research concentrated on irrigated sugarcane, whereas
80t of production was rainfed.  Thus, despite several intervontions by IDA
supervision missions, no improved extension package emerged within the project
tiimframe for the majority of grower. Staffing at the Jitpur Research Stations
was inadequate and, at the end of the project period, only three professional
posts out of seven were filled, and only three technical support staff recruited.
turthermore, the research/extension service linkage was weak, and DOA staff were
reluctant to provide advice since they were not formally charged with sugarcane
extension, and BsF extension staff no longer felt responsible. Only in the last
project year did DOA sugarcane extension service became fully operational,
supported by training programs.
16.       In view of the favorable prices for competing crops, prices fixed by
HMGN for sugarcane were considered too low by farmers to provide an incentive for
increasing production and productivity. The supervision missions' recommendation
to include sugar pricing in the scope of the Pricing Policy Committee (which was
A3lready constituted for tobacco) was not implemented. Frequent breakdowns at the
itugar factory, especially in 1986, resulted in farmers having to wait for days
to sell their cane, and subsequent dalayed harvesting and poor ratoon development
further discouraged production.
17.       Improved seed was to be made available to farmers by upgrading the
seed production system. By the end of the project period, about 45% of the area
under cane was projected to be covered with improved seed, 75% by the seventh
year. This program progressed satisfactorily and in the last project year an
estimated 2,250 ha were covered by new varieties.l Despite this ach'evement,
no major yield increase of the plant crop could be registered, mainly because the
varieties which were introduced only developed their full potential under/
irrigated conditions. Les than 5% of the area under sugarcane was irrigated.
Although the SAR made provision for research on improved cultivation practices,
and pest and disease control, little attention was paid to those aspects and no
tests of bullock-drawn wquipment were carried out. A total cf 54 km of feeder
roads were upgraded and six km newly built, which was close to the SAR estimates
of 59 km and five km, respectively.  Resulting savings were utilized for
emergency repairs aft.r the 1987 floods.
AV   These figures are at variance with those of the Borrower (Part II, para 48)
because of the use of a different database.
V    Mostly COB 767.



6
18.       TobacCo Development.    Yield increases on 1,250 ha of Flue Cured
Virginia  (FCV)7.  and on 500 ha of Natu tobacco,  tog-ther with e planned
ext-nsion of 1,050 ha in the total area under tobacco, were expected to result
in 1,S97 tons of incremental production. Combined with improved curing, storage
and redrying facilLties, this was expected to reduce JCF import requirements of
high-quality tobacco by about 52% over the project period.  Separat- yield
figures for FCV and Natu were not available, but the combined figures below
dmonstrate that the yield target. were not achieveds
VI" 0(trha)    190/31  196/    6M/3   19M/54   194      196/6   19/3   1967
Ptiorto Pro.t   0.59    0.64    0.66               -        -
Wib Prwt$- -              -             0,67     0.87     0.49    0.63     0.33
In the project districts the area planted to tobacco decreased from 6,900 ha in
1982/83 to 4,200 ha in 1987/881/. Tobacco imports increased in 1988 from about
4,000 tone in 1983/84 to over 7,500 tonsV while the amount of local tebacco
used by JCF decreased from 30% to 16%. Clearly the project objective of import
substitution was a:so not achieved.
19.       The reasons for the failure of the tobacco development component were
very similar to those of the sugarcane component. Tobacco research did not make
a meaningful start prior to 1986/87. Some improved varieties for FCV, Natu and
Burley tobacco had been obtained from India for testing under Napalese conditions
but no conclusive results were available at project closing.  Although the
majority of growers do not grow this crop with irrigation, tobacco research
neglected rainfed production techniques.   No forma'. transfer of extension
responsibilities from TDC to DOA took place in the initial project years, and
this led to uncertainty and a lack of clarity as to their respective
responsibilities, resulting in poor service to farmers. Finally, in 1986/87 DOA
staff took full charge of tobacco extension, but staff training remained weak,
not all key personnel were recruited, and most of those recruited were not given
permanent positions.
20.       Moreover, tobacco pricing policy was not conducive to productivity and
qua ity improvement.  While the costs of production increased substantially,
farmgate prLces remained constant during a three-year period from 1983/84 to
1985/86. Subsequent small price increases averaging 10% were unable to arrest
the declining trend. The price differential between top and low nicotine grades
was too small and tended to encourage production of the cheaper to grow low
grades. A study carried out during the July 1987 supervision mission found that
a comparative economic analysis of alternative cropping patterns in the Terai
showed that, at current yields and prices, tobacco does not compete with other
alternatives either in teims of returns to labor or to investment. Problems of
1/   From 0.6 to 1.0 ton/ha for FCV tobacco, and from 0.45 to 0.9 ton/ha for
Natu tobacco.
i/   This declining trend is at variance with that of the Borrower (Part II,
para 48) because of the use of a different database.  However, it is
consistent with the increase of tobacco imports and decrease of local
tobacco used by JCF.
i    Including 2,500 tons of leaf imported by JCF.



7
delayed payments to farmers for tobacco and a serious problem of credit
administration by TDC added further disincentives.
21.       The relocation of the storage and redrying facilities from JCF to
TDC's new site took place as envisaged and, all staff positions were filled
accordlng to BAR targets although with some delay. None of the 150 large-sizo
private curing barns, which were to be reduced to a size considered more fuel
efficient, were reconstructed and credit funds for this remained undisbursed.
22.       Not all incremental tobacco reoearch positions were filled, including
the key post of tobacco agronomist, which remained vacant throughout the project
period. Civil works, although delayed, were completed by project closing. The
employment of trained tobacco curers from India (10 persons in the first year and
20 annually up to project closing) did not materialize as planned.  Only in
1984/85 were 20 curers employed, and 150 farmers trained in curing. No follow-up
training took place mainly due to administrative difficulties. Of the 36 staff-
months of consultancies in tobacco production, none were utilized.
23.       Oilsged Development. Project support was intended to increase mustard
and rape yields through (a) allocation of incremental credit to meet the needs
of 4,800 ha of these crops; and (b) improvement of research. At appraisal, it
was assumed that pre-project oilseed yields were around 0. 3 ton/ha and that there
would be scope for an increase up to 0. 5 tons/ha.   National agricultural
statistics, however, show that in 1980 oilseed yields in the project area were
already above 0. 5 tons/ha, and no improvement has taken place since then as shown
below:
vidS (tons/ha)   1IM/81  1981/82  1982/83  1M8/14  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88
Pro-Roject          0.62   0.78    0.78     -      -       -       -      -
With Project         -      -       -      0.81    0.69    0.51    0.53    0.65
However, in the project districts the area planted to oilseeds increased from
22,500 ha in 1982/83 to 37,400 hag in 1988/89, mainly due to farmers giving up
tobacco growing. The resulting incremental production is estimated at 9,600
tons. This increase cannot be ascribed to the project.
24.       The project also provided a pilot development program for groundnuts.
Although some seeds were imported for testing, and limited propagation took
place, this sub-component was a failure. The Vanaspati Ghee Industry, which was
to purchase the entire incremental production, did not pursue an active
procurement program and the small requirements of the conrumer market were
already satisfied from traditional sources.  As a result, the program was
abandoned in 1986.
25.       The failure of the oilseed program can partly be attributed to the
fact that the oilaeed agronomist, who was recruited on a non-permanent basis by
late 1984, left tne research station in October 1985 after being offered a
permanent position elsewhere. Although some research recommendations on improved
varieties, woed control, fertilizer application and spacing, etc., for mustard
and rape were available even before the start of the project, limited field
v    This figure is larger than that of the Borrower (Part II, para 48), but the
resulting incremental production is similar because of the use of different
base year data.



8
trials and inadequate extension support are considered to be the main other
reasons for the failure of this component.
26.       Sericulture Develooment.  At appraisal it was estimated that a total
of 150 ha would be planted to mulberry, projecting milk cocoon yields of 770
kg/ha. Cocoon yields fluctuated between 150-250 kg/ha and only a few farmers
achieved over 300 kq/ha in the last year of the project, still considerably below
target. After some delay, both the improvement of the main sericulture station
at Khopasi and the construction of the sub-center in Walling (Syangja District)
were completed. In spite of training efforts, project progress was slow and only
about 35 ha in Kavre District and 20 ha in Syangja District were operational at
project closing. All staff were recruited as per SAR provision, and farmers,
training was carried out (Part III, Section 4). Due to administrative problems,
staff training (20 staff-months) in India was not implemented and only in the
last project year did four officers go on an observation tour to India.
27.       It was mainly the failure of the pilot activity to address the
systemic problems of sericulture development in an integrated manner which
contributed to the  serious under-achievement  of this  sub-component.   In
particular, the following was observed: although over 100 ha were planted to
mulberry during the course of the project, high plant mortality (between 10-50%)
reduced the effective area to about 55 ha by 1987/88 and until now only a few
additional  hectares  have  been  planted.    This  must  be  attributed  to:
(a) conflicting agricultural practices which caused low leaf yields;
(b) inadequate sanitation in the feeding and cleaning of the silkworms, which in
turn caused disease and low silk cocoon yields; and (c) inappropriate planting
material;V and erratic silkworm egg supply.  The infrastructure to back the
cultivation of mulberry and the raising of silkworms was also insufficient.
28.       ADBN was reluctant to provide loans to farmers, as its estimates
showed silk cocoon production was not economically viable when based on a
government-fixed farmgate price of NRs5O/kg of dry cocoon, which was about half
lower than that in neighboring countries. Under the circumstances, the economics
of silk production became unsatisfactory and a number of farmers dropped out of
the program.   Supervision missions suggested the Sericultural Unit make a
detailed review of sericulture production potential, but this was not carried
out. However, to provide incentives for quality production, cocoon prices were
adjusted in 1990, and grade differentials introduced, with prices ranging from
NRs70/kg for low-quality to NRslOO/kg for high-quality cocoons.
29.       In retrospect, it was over-ambitious to attempt simultaneous pilot
activities for sericulture in both the Hills and the Terai. No effort was made
to concentrate production within easy reach of the two sericultural otations.
This led to widely dispersed individual production units, which could neither be
supplied with inputs in a timely and cost-effective manner nor be properly
covered by the extension service.   Similarly,  silk cocoon marketing and
processing suffered from serious delays and subsequent quality deterioration.
The lack of shawkie rearing facilities and adequate driers at field level fuL h-er
contributed to the failure.
30.       Gincer Develogment.  The project-supported ginger research station at
Pokhara failed to identify improved varieties and agronomic practices. Although
'   The variety was a tropical South Indian variety which could not withstand
the Nepali temperate climate and frost.



9
five solar dryers were tested under farmors' conditions, the lack of extension
support and cost considerations prevented farmers from adoptlng the improved
drying method. No actLon was taken on the flndings of the APROSC marketing study
which, inter alia, recommended exploring the posaLbillties for exportlng gLnger
powder to India and using ginger for local beverage productlon. Besides poor
research and extanslon support, the maln reason for the failure of the sub-
component was the slump in fresh glnger prlcez from NRs5/kg to NRc2 in 1987. The
*llght price improvement to NRs2.5 ln 1988/89 was unable to arrest the falling
trend in production.
31.       Cr-dl     Farm credit amounting to US$2.43 million (33% of total
project cost) was provided mostly in support of the various crop productlon
programs.
Cmi by Crm                    SAR          Actl a/              Ovaru b/
(NR miion)                     % (19W)
SuJar                     14.54               19.49               26.5
Tobacco                   10.54               14.94                41.8
Seorulture                 4.83                .16                 4.6
Oilaeds                    2.21               17.68                26.1
Toal                     32.12              52.27 c/             27.8
a Source: ADBN
b/ Bued on national avenge.
c/ Actash include contingencies and reflect the depteciation of the Nepaiee Rupee against the U.S. dolbr.
The disbursement of farmers' loans by ADBN progressed faster than anticipated,
and by July 1987 the allocated project funds were fully utilized. Repayment
performance has been poor, with the exception of the small sericulture loans made
to a limited number of farmers who used other sources of income for repayment.
The exceptlonally low repayment performance of tobacco loans can be attributed
to the deteriorating economic viability of tobacco productLon and the cumbersome
loan recovery procedures through TDC/JCF, entailing delays of up to one year.
32.       Sub-loans to farmers generally consisted of a cash and a materials
component, the former mostly for farm labor, contract plowing, purchasz of
planting material, tools and minor equipment; the latter mainly for fertilizers
and farm chemicals to be provided by the Agricultural Inputs Corporation.
Despite these loans, the productivity of the main crops did not increase.
According to sample surveys carried out by APROSC,1 the use of fertilizers has
increased by about 30%-40% for irrigated sugarcane and FCV tobacco, and by about
20%-30% for irrigated Natu and rainfed sugarcane and tobacco. For oillseds, an
increase of about 60% occurred.   In all cases, however, application rates
remained 30%-55% below recommended levels, although loan provision covered the
recommended dosage. Due to the fungible nature of cash and most fortilizers, it
was easy for the farmers to use the loans in part or entirely for other purposes.
Evidence available to the mission was not conclusive, but three possible
explanations can be given for the diversion of loans away from cash cropst
(a) for the production of other, more profitable crops; (b) non-productive
purposes such as the construction of houses; and (c) repayment of loans from
IV   APROSCt Ex-Post Evaluation of Nepal Cash Crop Development Project, 1989.



10
informal (more expensive) sources. Closer sub-loan supervision by ADBN's agents
could have minimized such diversions.
33.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  The SAR had foreseen that the Evaluation
and Program Analysis Division of MOA would have the main responsibility for
project monitoring and carrying out short-term evaluation studieu. These task.
were subsequently shifted to APROSC.  The baseline evaluation study work was
considerably delayed, and only completed by late 1986.  Until 1985, progress
reporting also was not very satisfactory.  Thereafter, performance improved
considerably and by 1987 all reports and work plans were up-to-date.
Unfortunately only a few of APROSC findings and recommendations were translated
into protect actions, mainly due to weak project coordination and management.
34.       Economic Rate of Return (ERRI. At appraisal the ERR was estimated at
62% for the project as a whole and by component, at 64% for sugarcane, 60% for
tobacco, over 100% for oilseeds, and 31% for sericulture. The economic benefit
stream was based on the value of incremental production mostly due to yield
increases of sugarcane and oilseeds, and yield and area increases of tobacco.
However, neither these yield increases nor the area increases materialized, with
the exception of the mustard/rape area increase which cannot be ascribed to the
project. Although under the project some roads were constructed (para 17) and
some improvement of research and extension took place, there is insufficient
evidence that any possible future improvement of cash crop production/yields can
be directly attributed to project activities. Therefcre, no attempt was made to
re-estimate the ERR, as it would be negative.
35.       Proiect Impact.  The project did not have the expected impact on
sectoral growth, as it failed to achieve its main objectives of tobacco and
oilseed yield increases, import substitution of tobacco and oilseeds, and the
rationalization and improvement of sugarcane supply to BSF. The project also
failed in its pilot developments of sericulture and groundnuts. However, the
project did contribute to human resource development through staff and farmer
training, improved transport infrastructure, and to a limited extent,
strengthened the research and extension institutions.
IDA Performance
36.       IDA's performance during the early stages of the project cycle and the
appraisal process was not satisfactory. The project design was too complex, the
data for crop yields under farm conditions were overestimated, and IDA failed to
assess properly the availability of relevant technology.  IDA also failed to
consider that adoption of technology depends not only on the farmers, knowledge
of the technology, but on the supply of the complementary factors needed for
adoption, and on the economic aspects.
37.       IDA's performance during the aupervision phase, was mixed.   Ten
supervision missiors were fielded with a considerable degree of staff continuity.
Generally, the intervals between missions were appropriate, and the critical
issues that hamper project implementation were correctly identified and measures
to correct them were proposed.   However,  the lack of supervision between
September 1984 and December 1985 (Part III, Section 8) may have contributed to
delays in implementation. More importantly is that no serious attempt was made
to redesign the project during its third year of execution after it became clear
that the project would fall short of expectations. The main lessons learned from
project implementation that may be relevant to other IDA/Bank-financed projects
are:



11
(a) in project design, complex institutional arrangements should be
avoided to minimize problems of project coordination, management and
monitoring (para 7);
(b) if key institutional arrangements such as adequate project
coordination or restructuring of institutions are not implemented,
more decisive action should be taken by IDA to induce corrective
action (para 10);
(c) at project preparation and appraisal, particular care has to be taken
when assessing the available data on crop yields, to avoid
misjudgments as to the scope of production increases, and the
availability of relevant technology under the project (paras 15, 17,
18, 19, 23, 27);
(d) when designing crop-specific projects, there is a need to determine
the competitiveness of these commodities with potential substitutes.
If the Government controls prices (paras 16, 20, 28), policy
conditionality should be included to ensure that prices ard the ratios
between prices reflect reality; and
(e) any attempt to promote sericulture development must proceed prudently
and should build a research and extension capability via equipment and
training. Of critical importance would be to (i) have a long-term
commitment by Government to the development of sericulture which would
include a pricing policy to provide incentives for quality production;
(ii) develop mulberry varieties suitable for the various micro-
climatic zones in Nepal; (iii) provide either silkworm egg production
in regional centers, or the refrigerated facilities in strategic
locations to store imported hybrid silkworm eggs, enabling
sericulturalists to purchase eggs at the appropriate timeo; and
(iv) ensure that both farmers and the private sector have access to
redit for sericulture activities (paras 27, 28).
Borrower Performance
38.       During project preparation, the Borrower's performance was as weak as
IDA's, and the project, which was jointly prepared by APROSC and FAO/CP, suffered
from a number of flaws (para 6).  The Borrower's performance during project
implementation was also weak. Project coordination and management was inadequate
throughout the project's life (para 10); and staff and consultant resources, as
well as training provisions, were deployed at sub-optimal levels (paras 15-26).
39.       There were serious delays in complying with key covenants and some
were not adhered to at all. Project implementation was adversely affected by
failure to:   (a) establish a functioning PCC and related sub-committees;
(b) provide for adequate management; and (c) transfer the responsibilities for
tobacco and sugarcane extension to DOA. During the first three project years,
audited accounts were not submitted in a timely manner and the Borrower did not
submit a Project Completion Report (PCR) within six months after credit closing.
The main lessons to be derived by the Borrower are:
(a) for complex projects it is essential that a full-time coordinator be
appointed for a sufficiently long duration to provide the needed
continuity. The coordinator should be given the required authority
to guide and direct the various implementing agencies (para 10);



12
(b) once agreement has been reached on institutional arrangements, they
should be implemented without delay and adhered to in order to ensure
smooth project implementation (para 10);
(c) research programs should be tailored initially to the needs of the
predominant farming system (in this came rainfed sugarcane and
tobacco), to be followed later by more specialized programs (paras 15
nd 19).   Research undertaken during the project is unlikely to
produce recommendations in time for implementation during the
project's life;
(d)  strong  extension/reeearch  linkages,  field  trials  and  out-reach
programs are required to translate research findings into field action
(para 25-27); and
(e) adequate staff allocations should be made to ensure timely compliance
with auditing covenants (para 33).
Project RelationshiD
40.       IDA/Borrower relationship was not entirely satisfactory. The Borrower
did not adopt most of the recommendations made by the supervision missions and
its initial failure to submit audited accounts required IDA in 1986 to indicate
to the Borrower the risk of suspension of disbursement. For subsequent years
audited accounts were submitted, albeit late.
Consultino Servie2s
41.       Training and technical assistance provided under the project were
underutilized, although in 1984/85 the services of tobacco curors from India were
utilized, and a positive impact resulted (para 22).  Other contractors and
suppliers generally performed satisfactorily, excepting those working on the
Kalaiya-Matiarwa road.  The original contractor had to be dismissed and the
substitute contractor performed unsatisfactorily, resulting in delayed completion
of this road.
Proiset Documentation and Data
42.       The Credit Agreement was adequate and appropriate for achieving
project objectives in key organizational and financial areas. The SAR suffered
major flaws, however, especially regarding the: (a) proposed institutional
arrangements; (b) assessment of opportunities for increasing both yields and area
under cultivation; and (c) availability of relevant technology (para 6).
nevertheless, the SAR did provide a useful framework for IDA and the Borrower to
monitor the project implementation progress.
43.       Although a final monitoring report for the 1987/88 crop year and an
Yx-Post Evaluation Study were prepared by APROSC, not all data required for
preparation of the PCR were readily available, because no continuous and
consistent monitoring was carried out during project implementation and data made
available were not suitable for presentation in the prescribed PCR format.



13
CaBE CROP DEVELOPINT PROJEcr
(Cr. 1339-NIP)
PART 1  - rOCT Rvxw FROM  oRo'  PEPECTV
44.       Cash Crop Development Project (CODP) was launched by the Ministry of
Agriculture HaM/N with the financial assistance from the IDA/The World Bank. The
basic objective for implementing the project was to achieve self-sufficiency and
reduce imports of raw materials for the agro-bared industries by strengthening
the support services. Crop included in the project were: (a) Sericulture, (b)
Sugarcane, (c) Tobacco, (d) Oilseed (mustard and groundnut), (a) ginger.
45.       Sugarcane programme was design to support the raw materials to run
BLrgung Sugar Factory and the tobacco was for Janakpur Cigarette Factory.
Oilseeds and groundnut improvement programme was run to reduce import of oil and
oilceed from outside and smooth running of vegetable gh-e factory.  Ginger
improvement programme was run to produce improved variety with low fibre and
drying facilities to the farmers.
46.       The CCDP was initiated in 1983 under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Agriculture HMG/N.  In terms of area under different cash crops,
farmrs were supposed to allocate their land for sugarcane, tobacco,
mustard/rape, groundnut, ginger and sericulture. The farmers were to get the
services on inputs, technology, credit and research and extension services.
47.       The farmers seems to be interested with the cash crop development
project, as they have allocated their rainfed areas for cultivating the cash
crops under the project comuand areas. The status of the components after the
completion of the project is given here under.
48.       The project implemented in 1983 has now completed its five year period
by June 1988. As regards to the support services specially the strengthening of
research activities of all crop components (offLce building, staff housing and
development of laboratories) have been made and the activities pertaining to the
improvement and construction of foeder road around sugarcane area is reported to
have been completed. The main objective of the CCDP project is to increase yield
level by improving cash crop technology generation, verification and
dissemination, supply of improved seeds, fertilizer, pesticides, irrigation and
credit, also improving road and other basic infrastructures for marketing,
processing and storage facilities, How far the achievement of the objective to
increase crop productivity is fulfilled during project period it may be briefly
explained in the following tables



14
NEPAL CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PPOJECT
oCrp Yield of Projection
________   BabJ Yer 1983   Actua with Project 119Ob/SW  With PRoiect (Terget
Area (he)  Yild at/he  Production  Arta  Yield  Production  Area  Yield  Production
ugarOane  1.660   24.00    111940  6,940  32.00   222,080  4,600  36.00   164,600
Tobacco  1,650      .60    990   5,270     7.6  4,006  2,800    .95  2,710
Muetard  4,00X     .30    1 ,440  12,710    4      334  4,600   .5   2,400
Asecomred to the bee yeaw 1903.
49.      The area has increased from 4,600 ha to 6,940 ha for sugarcane, from
1,650 ha to 5,270 ha for Tobacco, and from 4,800 ha to 12,710 ha for mustard in
1988-89. The production level has increased from 111,840 mt to 222,OVO mt for
sugarcane, from 990 mt to 4,005 mt for tobacco and from 1,440 mt to 88,330 mt for
mustard. The improvement in yield/ha has remained modest. The increase in yield
for sugarcane is from 24 mt to 35 mt, for tobacco from 0.60 mt to 0.76 mt. The
mustard yield has increased from 0.30 mt to 0.64 mt, which is higher than the
targeted yield estimated in the future with the project.
50.      Regarding modest achievement in yield it may be observed that the
price, particularly of sugarcane and tobacco, is determined by the BSF and TDC,
and the rate its increment is generally lower than the increase in cost
production compared to other cereal. This has led to the lower rate of adoption
of complete packages of improved technologies and farms.  Increase in total
production of rapeseed and mustard was mainly due to increase in area rather
than due to increase in productivity only. Price policy was not timely for the
groundnut growers and also the purchase of groundnut has not been timely.
Recommendations:
A.  Sericulture
Some the major recommendations are as followes
Institutional build up
1.  National Sericulture Research Center, with
Research facilities
National training facilities
Training and demonstration units for cocoon technological sectors
Silkworm variety maintenance facility.
2.  Seed Organizations, including
P2 breed multiplication farms
P1 breed multiplication farms
Conmnercial silkworm egg production arainace
3.  Regional Sericultural Centres, with
Silkworm supply facilities
Marketing facilities for farmers cocoon
Regional research facilities
Short term regional level training facility



15
4.   Two Mulberry Nursery farms
5.   One Sericulture Centre
6.   Silk Development Board as a Statutory Body.
Therefore, it is suggested that any sericulture development assistance should
oonsider the above recommendations.
B.  8ucarcan-
1.   Research should be concentrated in government farms.
2.   There should be donations for research and verification activities
from 8SP and private factories.
3.   Technology transfer and production programme should be launched by the
team of sugarcane development workers of the concerned factories in
coordination with the ADO of the respective districts.
4.   Pricing policy should be improved for increasing the productivity of
sugarcane crop.
C.   Tobcc
1.   Technology generation and verification should be intensified only
through Tobacco Development Programme.
2.   Technology dissemination through production block approach should be
conducted through extension workers of TDC in collaboration with ADO
of the concerned districts.
3.   Pricing policy for Virginia and Natu Tobacco procurement must be well
organized under the supervision of MOA and MOI.
D.  QOilcee
1.   There should be proper support on oilseed research activities with
required personnel and facilities
2.   The extension of oilseed tachnology should be launched in a campaign
manner. For this there should be proper budgetary facilities in each
potential districts for oilseed crops.
3.   Master plan for oilseed development programme should be developed for
providing realistic production programme in the country.
Z.   Gincer
1.   Research on ginger crop should be further strengthened.
2.   Marketing and storage facilities should be developed in the potential
districts.



16
(Cr- 133-NIEP)
PrOJECI COMPLEIION IPR
PART m - STA3I1IICAL.EMATION
1. Rd    Cmdit
no (0.3)                               PeApsa       _-                         s
Narsyai rriatin Project 11  To upgrade the miting Nepal        We18        Completod     he CCDP has built on the
(Cr. U56-NEP)                astem Canl and atend the                         1216      ternalo svics
developmt of its command ae                                 ropaied by th_
started under the Birpan                                    pojes in Pam, Ba,
Irriatin Prject (Cr. 373-NEP)                               Rupandehl, Rautahat, and
and to intensif agricultural                                Morang
teeslon stared ttder Stage I
Agricultural Extension and  To reoranz the agriultural         2181        Competed    In fihe of the diticts
Resarch Project            etenson service and upgrde                        1/7/90     (Slhi, Mahottard
(Cr. l1OWNEP)1i            research fadlitis In eight distrt                            Danusha, Chitawan  d
of the Terai                                                Nawalparsi) the CCDP
has utilized and/r
strehened the serves
and fitieks created by this
project
Hill Food Production Project   To increase food rop production  V191       Compled    The CCDP has rlW for
(Cr. 1101-NEP)             in four hll districts through                     1/7/90     the  rikulture development
mainly the establishment of 20                              component In Syana on
Agricutural Services Centeo                                 credit and supply
improved input supply and                                   improvament under the
infratructure                                               projec
Ariculture Research and     To reorganize and strengthen the   3/85         Ongoing     Four of the project
Extension 11 (Cr. 1570-NEP)   agricultural extenlon sevice in                 12/91     distrcts, Ic, Bars, Pua,
eleven districts of the Temi                                Rautshat & Siraha,
previously caeed by IDA                                    coincde with districts
assisted irrigation schemes.                                covered by CCDP
Naryani 11 Irriaption Project  To further expand irrigation in the  6196    Ongoing    The project is a follow-up
(Cr. 1715-NEP)              Teral and to strengthen atension,                 694       to two prvious projects in
reserch, input supply and credit.                           the Naravani Zone of the
Teal coari  the CCDP
Districts of Pans Bars and
Rautahat and using the
Parwaripur Research
Station upgraded under the
CCDP.
Mahakali Irriation II Project  To improve Irrigation and       6/88         Ongoing    lhe project is a foUow-up
(Cr. 1924-NEP)              ctension In selected Tered and                    3/97      to Cr. 1055-NEP which
Hill Districts with the aim to                              closed in 198& It contain
increaue food and cash crop                                 abo a pilot component for
(oiseed and cotton) production                              farmner manu ed irriation
schemes and is, inter als,
operationa In the
Nawaparas and Syangja
Diticts cvered by CCDP.
1/ Project dosexd as planned. Completion of a few outstanding works wdi be carried out under Cr. 1570-NEP.



17
2.          .
Item                                           Date Panned                     Actual Date
Poiidentification                                        -                     March 1981
Identification                                 March  1981                     July 1981
Preration                                      February 1982                   April 1982
Appraisal mission                              May 1982                        May 1982
Credit negotiations                            November 1982                   December 1982
Board approval                                 January 1983                    March 1983
Credit signature                               March  1983                     April 1983
Credit effectiveness                           July 1983                       August 1983
Credit closing                                 December 1988                   December 1988
Credjt completiop                              Jun.e 1989-                     Japuary  l99O 2
Project completion                             July 1988                       July 1988
I/ With en informal extension of aix months to cover al eli4ible expenditurem incurred prior to December31, 1988.
2/ Delayed due to pending receipt by the Bank of an outtanding amount of USS199,313 remininsg In the Pcojoct's Special Account. Tho
refand ws received January 3, 1990.
3. Credit Disbu
Cumulative Fstimatd and Actua Dlsdmrsaeum
(SDR and USS million)
Worl  Bank P cl Year                               1984        1985        1986         1987        1988         1989
(Calwdar Year)
Appaisal eimate (SDR)                              0.2          1.0         2.3          3.7        S.0          5.6
Appabis estimate (USS)                             0.2          1.0         2.5         4.1          5.4         6.0
Actal (SDR)                                                     1.6         2.4          3.4        3.9          4.1
Aetul (USS)                                        -            1.6         2.4          3.6         4.3         4.5
A       Xas % of estimate (SDR)                    0          160         104           92         78            73
Actual as X of eaimte (USS)                        0          160          96           88         80            7S
NB:      For the purpose of calculation, the outstanding amount of USS199,313.42 which remained In the Project's Spoeial Account at credit
losing (refunded January 3, 1990) was deducted from actual disbursements in 1986/87, the year the account was established.



is
4. ftoet wDi entatIon
Key Indicators - Physical Program
Program                                           lmitU               SAR                 Acta
A.  ARCANE DEELQPMEN                                                            Tr Iww
* fillig A gaveilUl  of existing toa                   km.                  59                   55
Conastbn of new roads                                  km.                   S                    6
Jitput Reserch Station                                 unit                  3                    3
-tbj" Maomer Ipeelt                                    unit                  I                    I
ed Pduction Farm, SLmr
Fencing of S"d Production Amre                                        4,600                 4,600
Inproving of brigation Sysem                        unit                  1                    1
YOWLI
Pik-up Van                                               no.                   I                    I
Motorcyle                                                no.                   1                    2
RECRUnMBN1
Jitpur Research Station Staff                            stffyears            15                   1
Subject Matter Specialist                                staff/years           S                    S
-_SMCALC pjERKkANcA
Incremental Production                                   m.ton            72,700                  n/a  "
B. TOBACCO DEVE,iOMN
Iriz   Plalnt                                            unit                  I                    I
Staffousin
Redrying Plant Staff                                   unit                  8                    8
Reearch Staff                                          unit                  7                   10
Extesion Staff                                        unit                   2                    2
EQUIPMLNT AND FURNITRrB
RedtyingFPat (genentors)                                 no.                   2                    1
Beblchapi Resarch Station (lab equipment)                 et                   I                    I
Exmeuion (office equipment & funiture)                   set                   2                    1
VEHICl,ES
Minibus                                                  no.                   I                    I  Pickup Van
Motorcycles                                              no.                   4                    1
RECRUnMEN^T 
Redrying Plant Staff                                   stff/year            1i                   IS
Upgrmding TDC Staff                                   stff/year             20                   20
Belachapi Reserch Station Staff                        sff/year             90                   90
Subject Matter Specialist                              stafk7year           10                   10
Consuutei 3egvieeg
Tobacco Production Specialist                           aff/year             5                    -
Curers                                                 no.                  90                   20
TECHNIAL PIEROMANCE
lncremerninal Producion                                  mton              1,600              negative
nte - not available
*r    a available for ate" Lrnder mugarceane However, it s esimated that overall production was not incresed.



19
Unit               SAR                 ActAd
Tarpt             Actlemes
Kopui Serieuiture Sation                                 building             10                    9
Wallin Subceonter                                        building              3                    4
Kcpa, slli."rcul wrtato                                  4t                    S                    5  1#
Wain  Sub-eeagr                                          set                  13                   12
Pink-4 Van 4WD                                           no,                   I                    I
M0otorcyle                                               no.                   1                    2
ilopri S ricuituro
Station                                                  suffyear           25                    22
Walling Sub-center                                        Vf/year             20                   20
Trani"
Fanners TrainIg                                        ponr               500                   467
Staff In-service Trining                               parsons              65                   65
Staff Training in indbia                               prsone               10                    4
New Mulberry Am  Developed                               ha.                 ISO                   55
Cocoons Sold by Farmrso                                   mAton              115                   10
D. OIEEDEL
Oisee AgonoMitA                                          Affyear               5                    0.5
BM And Mustrd
Ilncrmental Production                                 mWton              960                 9,600  ,
Incruse in Am                                          ha.                350         n/l
Incromental Production                                 mton               245                   rna
S. GINGER D&VEi&PMZ
EOUtPMiEiAND EFURE
Drjfiry Units                                            no.                   5                   12
RESCRUiiEiT
Gingr Agronomist                                         Miff/year             5                    3  Y
V The cocoon dryer for the Syndja distrct was not proured.
Ikt was p--id that 20 officers would undero  et monhdis o opwhwp tann. Due to admlatilv problems oly bar officers wet
on a bulot obseration tour.
t Dus to area ineaue which cannot be ausribd to the project.
Y Me gn  agrononist who wa working under the provision of CCDP resignd In June 1986, but an Assirant Vegepble Developnent
Ofcer wee continuing limited "nres h work.



20
S. Project CoetA and FEnanciCg
A. E  
(KSS .M e1)                                   (USS s.Me)
c _eo                         Local          Foanp           TOW            Lal            Fisa             TOeW
Supmam                      2.24            0.75            2.99           2.52            0.84           3.36
Tab"o"o                      1.17           0.42            1.59           0.85            0.41            1.26
Indeakia                    0.53            0.14            1.67           0.45            0.12           0.57
0U.iw                       0.17              -             0.17            1.01                           1.01
CHser.                       0.04           0.01            0.05           0.03            0.01           0.04
Mmb *odq aIvluadoo          0.09                            0.09           0.20              -            0.20
Nam Cost                    4.24            1.32            5.56             .
lhyuhad coewe i"pu          0.25            0.18            j.43
Ptl  Cogb,ui                1.04           0.33            1.37                            -
Tod                     5253            1.83           7.3             5.06           1.36            6.44
B. Proeet Fln
-Xfe                                                  Pk=W                                     Fk
(USS mion)            Percet           (USS bmi              Pent
IDA (TMot)                                    6.00                  82                4.59 Y              71
1. CvW Wofek                                 1.77                  24                1.80                27
2. Mlawl a, Equipmest, Fumitu,. and          0.27                  4                 0.17                3
3. 1Ommea  1pn uingCot                       0.21                  3                 0.10                 2
4. Tgalnig ndTebTlhcalServi                  0.16                  2                 0.17                 3
5. Iat and Modhi-erm sub-louu                2,36                  32                2.35                36
peve by ADIN
6. UaOoeaed                                  1.23                  17
HONM                                           1.33                 18                .85                 29
Ted                                       733                  100                6.44               100
V  CluJd aouu     a  ioww a ona1 exchanse moe vls--vis Om SDR, but disbumed amouns ar shown at h exhaqnp tat, applicable
em  e uaa.ee  date
V Toa pmji sm lhwadl  eangsnsle but set of taxes and dudes.



21
6. .tIlewaesa
bhistn                                  AppWea  sa            EWWar A Clah  Dat           BE ta  at FM
imeal Sugaeae Productio (ton)                    72,720                   a/a                        a/a
Ibe   otal Toacco Pduction (tons)
a) FCV                                          1,025                 estia"                     WSW"
b) Natu                                          572                  ngtve                     meowe
bhmetl Mustard Prouction (o)                       960                  9,600 V                    9,600 V
OresMi Produton (NW)                               245                    sit                        a/a
Pr1e Cocooouos  )                                  115                     10                        10
ermeare (halles)                                 37,115                  37,000                    37,000
a/ Due to a" lncrs   ich cannot be acribod to th projt.
B. EcQnomicnmpact
Ecommkc Rafte of Roter.                            Appraia ifatheate                             Agtual
(pertt)
Total Projt                                                62                                      Mg.
Sugaoa                                                  64                                      ass.
Tobcco                                                   60                                     Mg.
Serlculture                                             31                                      MS.
Oilaed                                                 > 100                                not applicablW
a/ inremnal production not abutable to the pct.
NO: No  em t was made to readmatt the ERR as It wo    be gative rotbe pjct as a whoe as wl a for he augp ,
tobacco and ericulture componnt.
C. FnanclJmnaDt
SAR Fidmate           Actul
Foreig Exchau  Saving                   US$4.0 Million           nul
D. MudI
Sub                              Purpose   DWed at Appail                                 S_t
Morirn Sudle                 ColletIon of informatn on projct    a) A     I Moola Repopm 1985/36 publdS   1936
Inputs nd actvites.                b) Anul Moifda Report 19/87 pubishd Dec. 1937
e) Au  Mooig Repott 19S7/U publibhd Nov. 1988
vauoo Studies                Adhboc stdes to analyze pject       a)    eibi  Stdy puble July 19i6
outut, #etts and genra             b) Mi-Tem Evluaio publihed Avgut 1937
deokpe        _ Impat              a) hbt-Pon Evakto pubie 199
Oiwr Mareti  Study           To    m es  *teXpot and kl  market   Publied March 193U
pOteniakl for fieh and duy ginge
Ad sbo   sudIs wan carded out by AROSC. No annual mo fitorin   pors wew bled  r the yul 1984 and 194/  ad
wok on th basln dy was delayed by over two yea. In additin APROSC card out a tdy titd  *Probma otNonAdopdon
of Suprw    Crop In Atessound rWDprj Sugar Patory', whih was aed In Octor 1985.



22
7. Status of Covenants
Coveat                         Subject                        Date of     Status         Comnents
Compliance
Section    Government shall make available USS2,430,000 to                OK
3.01C(ii)   ADBN and established acceptable procedures for crop
credit.
Section    Borrower shall establish Project Coordination                  Part     Although the commite
3.02a      Committee and two sub-committ.                                          wer eablished, they did
not mot regulrly and
did not provide the
required laership
hnotion
Sation     Borrower to establish Tobacco Pricing Commilteo                OK
3.02b(i)
Secton     Borrower shall cause TPC to announce tobacco prices   05/06/83  OK
3.02b(u)
Section    Borrower shall maintain adequate records and                   OK
3.05b      procedures to monitor progress of the project.
Section    Borrower shall maintain adequate accounts for                  Part     Considerable delays
4.0la      departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible                     occurred with submission
for carrying out the Project (including, but not limited               of audited reports
to ADBN ard TDC), and have accounts cerdfied by
auditrrs not later than 7 months after the end of each
Enancisa year.
Sched      Borrower shall maintain the feeder roads under the             OK
S.C(i)     project through the Road Department of the Ministry
of Public Works and Transport.
Sched      Borrower shall post a trained assistant sericultural  06/30/83  OK
S.C(ii)    entomologist to carry out the project scricultural
component.
Sched      Borrower shall purchase all suitable groundnut seed            OK
S.C(iii)   by farmers and ensure futther distribution to growers.
Sched      Borrower shall secure an area of 3 ha of land for              OK
S.C(iv)    ginger research at the Pokhara Horticultural Station.
Sched      Borrower shall complete a ginger marketing study and  lV31/34  OK       Completed 12/85
5.C(iv)    shal forward a report on ginger drying units.
Sched      Borrower shall start collecting data (area, yields and         OK-1    Handled by APROSC
S.C(v)     total produetion) on cash crops in project area through                 under contract
the Food Marketing Services Department of MOA,
such datA to be monitored and evaluated by the
Evaluation and Programs Ana!ysis Division of MOA.
Sched      Borrower shall employ tobacco curers by December               No       Only in 1984185 tobacoo
C(vi)    in each year during project implementation.                               curers were employed
Sched      Borrower shall employ a tobacco production specialist  06/30/83  No
C(viO)    06/30/83 and therafter cause him to start work by
06/30 in each the following three years.
OK:  Covenant oomplied with
OK-1: Covenant complied with, but was revised
Pat: Prtial compliance
No:  Covenan not complied with



1t  t     t   . 
F [Et|          _sow          w"52It{                F            |iFX      TI    I I i I 
}          ||  B       |     | B       B          g                    
K  KC     KC    C     IC                           *  zo     
c~ ~~~~~. j. -J    -                       0 0% 0 w    w                *      !|   
i           1gIP                                                                               ;
ff  5  r    r               :    ?w   tt              1Ew           O    a      i~~~"w
W X.   ww   W000   w""    *             tffl            "~~~~~~~As 
7I1                           t=xKz 
%. '0        "^



tP%. = '\s -820                                                                                -    rs4° NEPAL
,'\ sJ   < _CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Hr'/  U M,,    HUMtA 9'\                                                            PROJECT DISTRICTS
(,J. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  HUMIA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sugarcane
,.- DARCHULA\.          i
t _   >,>2  f / --Zxw ~ E C   H  I  N   A                                               Tobacco
BAJHANG !                      MUGU       (
t/8AI               G /8    vd              MUGU    {    _JRSericulture
, y e /4 ~ v \ <t t ~ \> ............ t \, Oilseeds
D^3etDHuRAj   S    -/    J    JUMLA   .                     .       r / <. 
DOTI  ACHHAM\~
~~~AN~~~~  .in*~~~~~~~~       -                                                         I~~~~~~!J~~  Ginger
PJ- DOT                        LI                             0 HDPA -                                                           Crop Reseorch Seodons
KAILALI                0                                          M A                                         o      Odseed
).* 5l.. KAILALI  ,        RUKUM   \    'Ft   X      p a   o MANANG                                 13  ./   o  Sugorcose
N. SURKHET S          )MYAG0I  "                         -ASK;
2BARDIYA  Y..                                          .4 ,..   K    LAMJUNG
Zonol boundo~~~~~Ri     * t  /SOLPKU8A 8, T                  P       EUG Poo
280         \       ..-'     >~~~~~~~R0LPA~        )-..    G   ) BANICE  0        D          .-     RASUWA                                                          2B
Y6UTHAN)_,U1M-IX..N/
KHANCHI '~~       ANA         '          NUWAKOTp .SN H
DANGmTAUN                 ' )ACO  KHADHULA ,tKH                                      -
Kilonoters0   50   100   50        200                                                v_9                                   5\   > Q      sPALPA  0
District boundories 0M 50         100                                r                                                                     AKU DA*AH I
___KterseR s   o p   aWISARIWj                                                                                   H)
Zonol boundaries                               \IAU                                                                                     j    (    SOLUKHUM8 (U
nterntional boundaries                                                                        
-._QKHALDHUG           q :
Kilometers 0       50         100         150       200                                                       .NIDIUI.iHTA-~
_____________ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                                       D4~~~~~~iNK`6T`A
Miles 0'               50                 0                                               ~~DAYAPU'R.YY    ,                                                       1
Th,s map has boon pepecd by the World Bank's staff excluswely for th conve,mnce  IN D I  A                                                                 ) M0RAN0)-" %   -
of themrade,s of themrport to *.,ch tos attached The denom,nat,os used and the                                                                    'SN$R
boundafies show,, on Mhmn map do sot mply, on the part of the World Bank and its                                                           APAIJHAPA                             -
affiliates. any judgpment 'in the legal status of an,y teffto.y or any endorsement or                                                                 .)
acceptance of such boundernes                                                                                                                         'y
a25         e4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                   eeo                      4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



_________ _________ ________ _________ ________ _________ _________ ________ ______BRDRD                                              16604R
84'45'        J|/                                                                                                                          FEBRUARY 1983
/ ~~~~ AOpe;1a 'j(                                                                                                      __________S__________'______
1)\'0                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/- ~
kt/                        /' I\                                   -           *--Jaito                           //
-2                                                                                        X               -~                                                                        27'15'
CAS CRO DEVLOPMNT POJEC \s  $'I                                                                     - ---t------ *
zaBetwa o
Aen S R     BEELPMN                                           s        F          '                                                   \ P
Bhowon~~P)   ipu-clWs Kaghwy2Sk layond SaioNs\/;  oe
e-hunio                                         Saboithwa            BIRGANJOk      A BRCT \                .
oBe-two-Jya                                                                                                         anarpur          7 \                           2 0
CASHlya-Malia CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                          Mat-yrp
SUGARCANE DEVELOPMENT
*Sugarcane Research Station                 Metalled Roads                    avdAPUR 
-Now Road Construction Protect)-                  Earthern Roads
Bhwantpur-East-West Highway  25km      A  Ovdgment Station Wh  Brdes                                                                          Paterwo\, o
Jhotonpur-Easi-West Highway  25km  A-i-t-StatRion Weiagd Bridges
530-km    0    Sub-Cente, Ofl.ces
-_lmprouements to Existing Roads             0   Selected Towns                 N                                                                                       2
(Proiect):                            l~District Capital                                                                                                 /       %
K(ehurta - Pokhar/a        10 km    .-. Rivets
Jilpur- Bisiwaguti         B               District Boundaries
Sabaitwa - Tilawe          1 3             Internotional Boundlaries
Belwa- Jaga-nathipur       7 
Kealaiya- Baghuban         5       0                        5                      1   .
Koloiya - Mahiarwa         8
Surch, - Padam Road        8       Th,u -itp ti,, b-e prnp-rdby the WerdBarr- s nt.f-sr--euy far thHAUon.A,Anr
59 km    nf thui eders of fhu repnortr whic ir attached The d-oo-6at-n usd a-d the
$noue h-w -s ths maP do set -p/y. en the par of the Ws5d Bask -dd is
uff,5,ars , -p judg-en en irh e,7 -gt. ssof nov ire-nters e-ue end--srnr                    N r
an-pt-no- -v ub- hod.-,S
84°45'                                                                     85°00



