Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4073-NEP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 28, 1983
South Asia Projects Department
General Agriculture
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1 = Nepalese Rupee 13.20
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAIL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS
AA              -        Agricultural Assistant
ADBN            -        Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
AIC             -        Agricultural Inputs Corporation
APROSC          -        Agricultural Projects Services Center
BSF             -        Birganj Sugar Factory
DDG             -        Deputy Director General
DOA              -       Department of Agriculture
EPAD             -       Evaluation and Program Analysis Division
ERR              -       Economic Rate of Return
FAMSD           -        Food and Marketing Services Division
FAO/CP           -       Food and Agriculture Organization/IBRD
Cooperative Program
FCV             -        Flue Cured Virginia
HMGN             -       His Majesty's Government of Nepal
IDA             -        International Development Association
JCF              -       Janakpur Cigarette Factory
JT              -        Junior Technician
JTA              -       Junior Technical Assistant
MOA              -       Ministry of Agriculture
NFC              -       Nepal Fuelwood Corporation
NVGI            -        Nepal Vanaspati Ghee Industries
PCC             -        Project Coordinating Committee
PLAA            -        Panchayat Level Agricultural Assistant
ROO             -        Research Outreach Officer
RRS              -       Regional Research Station
RTC              -       Regional Training Center
SMS             -        Subject Matter Specialist
T&V              -       Training & Visit System
TDC              -       Tobacco Development Company



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. BACKGROUND .............                                                    1
A. Introduction ,..                    ..1
B. The Agricultural Sector in Nepal .                  .                1
C. Selected Cash Crops             ..                                   2
Oilseeds. .                                                        2
Sugarcane ......................................                   2
Tobacco. .                                                         5
Sericulture   ..10
Ginger  . .12
D. Agricultural Institutions    ..12
Agricultural Extension    ..12
Agricultural Research    ..13
Agricultural Credit    ..14
The Bank's Role in Agricultural Sector   .           .16
II.   THE PROJECT AREA .............................                         17
The Terai Region .17
The Hill Region .............................                     18
Project Districts .18
Agricultural Extension Services ........................  18
Agricultural Research .19
Rationale for Selection of Crops .19
III. THE PROJECT .................                                           21
A. General Description .21
B.  Detailed Features ............................-.-.22
Sugarcane Development .22
Tobacco Development ........................  24
Sericulture Development .27
Oilseeds Development .28
Ginger Development .29
Monitoring and Evaluation ..............................29
IV.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING ...............................  30
A. Cost Estimates .30
B. Proposed Financing .31
C. Procurement .32
D. Disbursements and Audit .33
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .34
Coordination    ..34
Project Implementation                 ..35
l This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii.-
VI.   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND INCOMES .............   36
Cropping Pattern and Yields ............................ 36
Cash Crop Production ........................      .      37
Marketing and Prices .... ...........                     38
Incremental Farm Incomes ............                     38
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ................................. 42
Employment Benefits .................................... 42
Income  Distribution  Effect   .............................  42
Impact on Balance of Payments ... ................... 42
Intangible Benefits .... 43
Economic Evaluation ......................                43
Project Risks .............. 44
Sensitivity Analysis ....................                 45
VIII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .45
ANNEXES
1. Background
Table I       -  Factory Working Days and Cane Crushed
Table 2       -  Sugarcane : Procurement Price
Attachment 1 -  Financial Position of TDC
Table 1    -  TDC : Balance Sheet
Table 2    -  TDC * Profit and Loss Accounts
2.  Project Area    -  Contribution of Cash Crops to GDP - Exports - Imports
3. Costs Tables
Table 1       -  Summary of Project Costs
Table 2       -  Sugarcane Development
2(a)    -  Research   Laboratory Equipment
2(b)    -  Improved Seed Production
2(c)    -  Credit Requirements
2(d)    -  Roads Development
Table 3       -  Tobacco Development
3(a)    -  Research : Laboratory Equipment
3(b)    -  Credit Requirements
Table 4       -  Sericulture Development
4(a)    -  Credit Requirements
Table 5       -  Oilseed Development
5(a)    -  Credit Requirements
Table 6       -  Ginger Development
Table 7       - Monitoring and Evaluation
Table 8       -  Incremental Staff Needs
Table 9       -  Terms of Reference of Tobacco Production Specialist



-iii-
4. Production, Marketing and Incomes
Table 1        -  Financial and Economic Prices Used
2       -  Average Farmgate Prices of Tobacco
3       -  Per Hectare Yields and Input Requirements
4       -  Summarized Income Analysis
5       -  Tobacco Barn Conversion : Estimated Cost Savings
6       -  Projected Cash Flow for Mulberry Cultivation
and Silkworm Rearing
5.  Basis for Economic Analysis
Table I        -  Economic Price of Tobacco
Table 2        -  Economic Cost and Benefit Streams - Total Project
6.    Table 1        -  Implementation Schedule (Chart - 24143)
Table 2        -  Estimated IDA Disbursements
7.    Pelated Documents and Data Available in Project File
Chart - 24144        -  Project Organization
Map   - IBRD 16603
- IBRD 16604






NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01    Under the proposed project, His Majesty's Government of Nepal
(HMGN) would implement an investment program for the development of sugar-
cane, tobacco, sericulture and oilseeds and intensify research on the
ginger crop. Project content is in line with HMGN Sixth Plan objectives
which emphasize strengthening of support services for cash crop production
with the intention of enhancing self sufficiency and reducing import
requirements. The proposed project, identified jointly by HMGN and Inter-
national Development Association (IDA) was prepared by the Agricultural
Project Services Center (APROSC), Nepal with the assistance of the
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program (FAO/CP). The original request from 1MGN for
assistance included tea development and a substantial proposal for expand-
ing groundnut production. At appraisal, it was decided not to include tea
development as adequate assistance was already being provided and that as
neither suitable varieties existed nor enough research knowledge was
available for groundnut development, only a small pilot program would be
included in the project. This report is based on the findings of an IDA
appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. R.V. Ramakrishna (IDA), R. Raturi
(FAO/CP), and J.P. Thijsse, N.G. Walanjkar, and J. Taylor (Consultants).
B. The Agricultural Sector in Nepal
1.02    Agriculture dominates the economy, providing livelihood to over
90% of the population and generating about two-thirds of GDP. Food crops
(mainly paddy, maize, wheat, millet, barley and potatoes) are grown on
some 2.2 M ha or about 90% of the total cropped area. Paddy, cultivated
on 1.3 M ha is the dominant crop with maize, wheat, millet and barley
being of lesser importance. Cash crops are grown on some 240,000 ha or
about 10% of the total cropped area. Oilseeds, the predominant crop, are
cultivated over some 125,000 ha with jute, sugarcane and tobacco being
grown on 56,000, 23,000, and 8,000 ha respectively.
1.03    During the period 1970/71 to 1979/80, the trend in production of
major foodgrains has not been encouraging, except for wheat, which
increased at an average rate of 9.6% p.a. Overall production, however,
only grew at about 1.1% annually largely due to area expansion, while
average yields, again with the exception of wheat, fell at a rate of about
0.9% per year. Erratic rainfall and higher cost of fertilizers partly
account for the decline but inadequate agricultural advice and other



-2-
supporting services, cultivation of marginal lands and inapproprite pric-
ing policies have also contributed to the situation. Production of some
of the cash crops, however, fared better.
C. Selected Cash Crops
Oilseeds.
1.04    Mustard and rapeseed are the principal oilseeds and are mostly
grown following summer maize or early paddy. In recent years, oilseed
production has grown by about 3% per year but despite these increases the
yields of rape and mustard in the Terai are low (0.3 MT/ha) due to delays
in sowing, insect attacks, inadequate input use and poor cultivation
practices. Owing to a lack of trained staff and facilities, oilseed
research has not been able to provide new varieties and appropriate terh-
nology to farmers.  Recently, HMGN has established the Nepal Vanaspati
Ghee Industries (NVGI) at Hetauda for manufacture of refined ghee. As
only a small acreage of the crop is now grown and in the absence of
locally produced raw material, NVGI is importing groundnut from India and
at full production, the factory will need about 20,000 MT of this crop
annually for processing. In the absence of adequate research knowledge
and non-availability of suitable short duration varieties, it will be some
years before large scale commercial production of groundnut can start.
Sugarcane.
1.05    Sugarcane is mostly grown in the Terai and during the 1970s
production has increased by about 6% annually largely due to area increase
of about 5% per annum. Yields are, however, low ranging from 20-24 MT/ha
for plant crop and 15 MT/ha for the ratoon crop. Sugarcane is generally
grown under rainfed conditions and is cultivated in rotation (main crop
takes 12 months to mature and the ratoon crop a further 12 months) with
food crops such as paddy, rice, wheat as well as mustard. A green manure
crop is sometimes included in the rotation.
1.06    Sugarcane Research.  The Department of Agriculture (DOA) has
responsibility for research on this crop and this is carried out at the
Sugarcane Research Station, Jitpur (for location see Map IBRD 16604). The
station covers an area of 29 ha of which 15 ha presently are planted to
cane. Though the station was only established in 1979, some good work has
been done in respect of varietal selections and trials on use of fer-
tilizers, spacing and mulching of the ratoon crop. The main constraints
to more research findings are: failure to identify farmers' problems and
testing of varieties and practices under farmers' conditions. The
research station also lacks adequate laboratory facilities.



-3-
1.07    Sugarcane Processing.  Processing of white sugar is done by three
sugar mills (with a total crushing capacity of 2,400 MT/day) and a few
other small units which make brown sugar and gur (unrefined sweetner). Of
the three mills making white sugar, the Birganj Sugar Factory (BSF), with
an installed crushing capacity of 1,500 MT per day, is in the public
sector. The other two, the Mahendra Sugar Factory (600 MT/day), located at
Bhairawa and the Morang Sugar Factory (300 MT/day), are privately owned.
The cane crushed by these three factories during the last 10 years and
number of days worked are given at Annex 1, Table 1.
1.08    Birganj Sugar Factory (BSF).  The factory was established in 1975
with assistance from the Russian government with an initial crushing
capacity of 1,000 MT/day which was increased to 1,500 MT per day in 1976.
The effective crushing capacity is, however, 1,250 MT/day.
1.09    BSF relies on cane produced in Bara, Parsa and a small part of
Rautahat districts, but in most years, due to low yields and diversion
of cane to brown sugar and gur production, the factory has had to tran-
sport cane from far flung areas in Rautahat and Sarlahi districts result-
ing in low recovery and higher transportation costs. BSF owns a small
nucleus estate (340 ha) which is too small and insufficiently managed to
contribute substantial quantities of cane. Over the past few seasons,
112,000 MT/year have been delivered from Bara, Parsa, and Rautahat dis-
tricts against the actual requirement of 150,000 MT. Thus the main
problem facing the factory is the non availability of sufficient cane
within a reasonable distance.
1.10    The accounts of BSF for the past few years show that the company
is financially sound.
1.11    Sugarcane Pricing.  Cane prices are not directly related to
quality but are set at a flat rate per ton of cane delivered to the fac-
tory. A minimum support price (which takes into account prices prevailing
in India) is fixed by HMGN but the factories usually pay a higher price to
farmers. Details are at Annex 1, Table 2.
1.12    Buying Stations.  BSF maintains 13 cane buying stations in four
districts: Bara (6), Parsa (4), Rautahat and Sarlahi (3). Weigh bridges
are found at all these purchase centers. For cane supplies received from
farmers at the buying stations, the transportation costs (to the factory)
are deducted from the final payment for cane. About 70% of cane farmers,
however, deliver cane direct to the factory gate.
1.13    Sugarcane Extension.  Advice to growers on cultural matters is
virtually non-existant though BSF has responsibility for this. BSF
employs a Cane Development Officer, 4 Junior Technicians (JT) and 18
Junior Technical Assistants (JTA). The JT and JTA have little crop
specific knowledge and are mostly engaged in contracting farmers to supply



-4-
cene to the factory, arranging for credit and other inputs and running the
cane buying stations. As such they have little time for extension and in
any event their number is too small to effectively contact about 13,000
growe-rs. Department of Agr.culture (DOA) currently has no responsibility
'or advising farmers though more than 200 extension staff are already in
the field in Bara and Parsa districts which are covered by the "Training
and Visit` system of extension (Narayani Irrigation Project Cr. 856-NEP).
Extension staff presently advise only on food crops.
1,14    Seed Production,  There is no organized seed multiplication
prog-ram providing good seed of recommended varieties to growers. The
Research Station ac Jitpur is too small for this purpose and the BSF farm
at Sinra is not able to produce quality seed due to poor management.
1.15    Short Term Credit.  Credit for purchase of fertilizer, pesticide,
and fcr hiring labor is made available to farmers by the Agricultural
Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN) acting through Cooperative Societies
(Salha). Farmers obtain their credit on the guarantee of BSF and which is
recovered before payments are made for cane supplied. ADBN is, however,
not able to lend the optimum amount to farmers because of a general
shortage of funds for on-lending and this results in only about 25%
farmers obtaining their full credit requirements.  The outcome is that
many growers make sub-optimum applications of the necessary inputs with
resultant low yields. Field staff of BSF are responsible for coordinating
delivery of inputs and which are supplied to Sajha by the Agricultural
Inputs Corporation from depots located within cane growing areas.
1i6    Transportation of Cane.  The existing road network for transporta-
"ion of cane to the factory totals about 275 kms of which 50 kms have been
built by BSF, Most of the roads (70%) are fair weather roads only and
need frequent maintenance, the responsibility for which falls on BSF and
which allocates only NRs. 120,000 (Us$ 9,091) per year for this purpose.
Tne present maintenance program for fair weather roads is not adequate and
has resulted in slowing of cane deliveries and consequent low recovery
rates. There is an urgent need for gravelling of important feeder roads,
and construction of a number of small bridges and some new roads. Main
and all weather roads are maintained by the Roads Department.
1.17    Constraints to Sugarcane Development.  Under prevailing conditions
it can be seen that overall yields of cane are low. In summary, the
reasons for this can be attributed to:
(a)  low input levels, use of inferior seed cane, lack of cultural
operations, inadequate pest control measures and neglect of
the ratoon crop;
(b)  pocr extension services;



-5-
(c) inadequate research support and failure to identify farmers'
problems;
(d)  inadequate amounts of short term credit; and
(e) difficulties in transportation due to a poor road network.
Tobacco.
1.18    Tobacco is a winter grown crop and cultivated under rainfed condi-
tions. The tobacco nursery is sown in July with the main crop being
transplanted in September-October. Tobacco is usually grown in rotation
with food crops such as maize, wheat, and mustard.
1.19    Commercial production of tobacco started in 1967 with the estab-
lishment of the Janakpur Cigarette Factory (JCF). Tobacco cultivation
is mostly confined to nine districts in the Terai of which Sarlahi, Mahot-
tari, Dhanusha and Sirha are the most important (see Map IBRD 16603).
These four districts are responsible for about 70% of the total tobacco
crop and which is grown on some 4,600 ha. Two types of tobacco are com-
monly produced - Virginia Gold (FCV), which is a flue cured variety of
high quality, and Natu, a sun cured variety of lesser quality. The
average present yields of FCV and Natu are 600 kg and 450 kg per ha
respectively. Yields and general quality (in terms of grades and nicotine
content) are poor due to: (a) poor cultural practices both in the nursery
and the field; (b) inadequate extension and research support; (c) low
input use due to shortage of funds for on-lending to farmers; and (d)
improper harvesting and curing techniques.
1.20    Overall production of tobacco dropped from 3,430 MT in 1978 to
about 1,260 MT in 1981. This was largely due to over production of low
quality tobacco in 1977 and 1978, most of which could not be utilized for
local cigarette manufacture (para 1.22), and imposition of restrictions by
the Tobacco Development Company (TDC) on the area planted to tobacco (para
1.30).
1.21    Janakpur Cigarette Factory.  The factory was established in 1964
as a public sector undertaking with Russian assistance. Administratively
it falls under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Industries, and is
located in Janakpur within Dhanusha district. JCF has an installed
capacity of 3,000 M cigarettes per year. In 1976, production was 2,270 M
cigarettes which fell to 1,600 M in 1980, but picked up in 1981 and is
expected to reach 2,500 M in 1982. JCF proposes to instal new machines in
the near future and so increase its annual capacity to 3,500 M cigarettes.
1.22    JCF produces six brands of cigarettes including some filter tipped
brands (25%). In the first twelve years of its operation JCF bought all
tobacco produced in the four tobacco growing districts, immaterial of



-6-
quality. In 1977, however, JCF commenced production of better quality
cigarettes, and imported superior tobacco grades (1,608 MT in 1977 and
1,973 MT in 1978) for blending with local tobaccos. The factory, however,
continued to purchase all domestically produced low quality tobacco (4,250
MT in 1977 and 3,430 MT in 1978) and which resulted in considerable over-
stocking. As a result, JCF stopped buying Natu tobacco from 1979 because
of poor quality (para 1.31). As a consequence of overstocking, JCF has
been forced to export about 3,700 MT of low quality tobacco and has not
bought any locally grown tobacco in 1981 and 1982 and which has also
created financial problems for TDC as it was forced to export tobacco
bought from farmers. Now that surplus stocks have been used up (through
exports and local consumption), JCF has prepared a plan for resumption of
domestic purchases (from the 1982/83 season) of about 50% of its require-
ments each year from TDC. JCF will, however, continue to import about
1,900 MT yearly of superior blending tobacco for production of better
quality cigarettes. JCF will reduce future imports to the extent that
better grades are produced locally.
1.23    The accounts of JCF for the past few years show that the company
is financially sound.
1.24    Tobacco Development Company.  TDC was established in 1971 with the
specific responsibilities for (a) tobacco research and crop development,
(b) redrying of farmer grown leaf, and (c) marketing. TDC is located
within the Ministry of Industries (MOI) with its headquarters in Janakpur
and a total staff of about 160.
1.25    TDC maintains 10 field offices in Sarlahi (1), Mahottari (4),
Dhanusha (2), and Sirha (3) districts and which are staffed by 10 Tobacco
Technicians and 19 Assistant Technicians with responsibility for (a)
assisting tobacco growers obtain credit and crop inputs, (b) providing
advice to growers on production and curing methods, and (c) procuring
tobacco from growers. TDC has a monopoly for purchase of all locally
grown tobacco to be supplied to JCF.
1.26    Tobacco Extension.  The available technical staff (29) are limited
in number, most possess little knowledge of tobacco cultivation and
receive neither inservice training nor technical support from TDC. Most
staff time is spent in arranging for credit and other inputs. As a
result, tobacco farmers receive little advice on good cultural and curing
practices. Currently, DOA has no responsibility for giving advice to
growers on tobacco production and all extension staff concentrate solely
on food crop production. Of the four tobacco growing districts, Sarlahi,
Mahottari, and Dhanusha are covered under the Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (Cr. 1100-NEP) and Sirha district is covered by the
Integrated Rural Development Project financed by the Asian Development
Bank. These districts have about 300 extension staff of all grades.



-7-
1.27    Tobacco Research.  TDC is responsible for tobacco research and
runs a 12 ha research farm located at Belachapi in Dhanusha district.
This well equipped station is overstaffed (40 persons) but the quality of
work produced is poor.
1.28    Credit and Inputs.  Production credit is made available to tobacco
growers by ADBN and Cooperative Societies (Sajhas). Farmers, who have
entered into a production contract with TDC for sale of their tobacco, are
provided credit on the guarantee of TDC. At the time of payment for
tobacco purchased from farmers, TDC makes the necessary deductions of
amounts due to ADBN and the Cooperatives. In view of the shortage of
funds available from ADBN, growers are not able to obtain their full loan
requirements. This results in lowering of yields and quality.
1.29    Tobacco Curing.  In the four tobacco growing districts there are
886 -flue curing barns, owned by farmers and which are sufficient to meet
present and future needs. Construction of barns is usually financed by
ADBN through medium term credit. These barns are of assorted sizes, with
only some 60 barns being of the optimum size (4.8m x 4.8m x 4.8m). Barn
owners, who are not able to grow sufficient tobacco to fill their barns
cure the tobacco of other farmers on payment of a fee. In the absence of
good technical advice, quality of curing is poor and barns are generally
overloaded. All these contribute to poor quality of cured leaf.
1.30    Fuel Availability.  The present annual fuelwood requirement for
curing is about 10,000 MT. About 80% of this (8,000 MT) is met by sup-
plies made available to curers at the sale depots of the Nepal Fuelwood
Corporation (NFC) at NRs. 250 per ton and the remainder comes from direct
cutting by curers in nearby forest areas. Local villagers are permitted,
by the Forest Department, to cut one head load of wood per family member
each day. Given present and future planting programs, NFC would be in a
position to supply upto 18,000 MT of fuelwood annually.
1.31    Tobacco Grading.  Presently cured tobacco leaf of FCV is class-
ified into five selling grades and that of Natu into three grades.
Primary grading is done by farm women, but in the absence of adequate
guidance, classification is defective and TDC is forced to regrade before
selling to JCF. In addition, most of the FCV leaf produced does not meet
the needs of JCF, as nearly 70% of leaf is of Grades 4 and 5 (JCF only
needs 40% of these grades), and 30% is of Grades 1, 2, and 3 (against 60%
needed). In the case of Natu, the overall quality of leaf produced was so
low that JCF stopped buying from local growers in 1979 (para 1.22) and
started importing from India. As a result, cultivation of Natu tobacco
was discontinued in 1979 but will start again, in a small way, with the
next crop season.



-8-
1.32    Tobacco Purchases.  TDC has responsibility for buying FCV and Natu
tobacco from farmers. Due to over production in 1977 and 1978 (para
1.22), in the 1978/79 season, TDC fixed the quantity of tobacco that they
would buy from each barn (2.5 MT from small barns and 3.5 MT from bigger
barns). This resulted in a reduction of the tobacco area and considerable
fall in production in 1981 (1,257 MT). During the years 1978-1981, TDC
purchased all the tobacco produced by growers. A small part of this
(about 20%) was sold to JCF and the rest exported.
1.33    Tobacco Pricing.  The procurement price of tobacco is fixed by a
Committee appointed by HMGN comprising one senior representative each from
ADBN, JCF and TDC. Details of present and past prices paid to farmers
are given below:
NRs. per Kg.
Variety/Year        Grade I    Grade II   Grade III   Grade IV   Grade V
FCV Tobacco
1971-74             12.50        11.80       10.80         9.90        7.12
1974-79             15.00        13.00       11.50        10.50        9.45
1979-to date        18.75       '15.60       13.20        11.25       10.20
Natu Tobacco
1971-74              6.00         5.00        4.05          -           -
1974-to date         9.00         8.00        7.00
Over the years, the overall price structure has improved, but the price
differential between lower and higher grades needs further readjustment as
an incentive to production of better grades.
1.34    TDC charges NRs. 300 per kg for seed supplied to farmers and
deducts a service charge of NRs. 0.30 for every kg of tobacco purchased.
There appears to be little or no rationale for this charge. TDC then
charges JCF NRs. 0.10 per kg as handling charges and which is considerably
less than actual costs incurred.
1.35    Tobacco Redrying.  All FCV tobacco purchased from farmers is
redried by TDC before being sold to JCF. The redrying plant, owned by and
located in JCF, has a capacity of 750 kgs of straight leaf per hour. The
present space available, however, for tobacco regrading, redrying and
packing is inadequate, rfesulting in about 6-7% loss of leaf. TDC has



-9-
recently built a new redrying complex at Mahendranagar, 7 miles from
Janakpur, which will ensure more efficient redrying and better storage.
1.36    Financial Position of TDC.  At present TDC's current liabilities
exceed its current assets. Furthermore, the balance sheet as at July 15,
1981 showed accumulated losses of NRs. 3.17 M. Preliminary projections
for 1981/82 show that these losses are likely to increase to over NRs. 6.0
M.  The main reasons for this poor financial position are:
(a) The price at which tobacco is supplied to JCF does not
include a sufficient margin to cover TDC handling costs and
overheads;
(b) Past overstocking of tobacco by JCF which led to their deci-
sion to discontinue further purchases from TDC in 1981 and
1982 and which left considerable stocks on hand;
(c) Decision of JCF to stop granting interest free loans to TDC
for the financing of tobacco purchases from farmers;
(d)  The heavy interest charges borne by TDG (NRs. 3.04 M in
1981/82) on borrowings;
(e) The lack of coordination between TDC and JCF; and
(f) Excessive administrative costs and poor management of TDC.
1.37    The balance sheet and profit and loss account of TDC are at Annex
1, Attachment 1.
1.38    While TDC is making losses, JCF is operating at a profit.  Fur-
thermore, JCF is importing tobacco at an average cost of around NRs. 23
per kg of FCV and NRs. 14 per kg of Natu; while prices paid to farmers
are much lower (para 1.33). Given Nepal's comparative advantage in the
production of Tobacco (para 2.19) and the relationship between the prices
paid to farmers for domestically produced tobacco and the cost of imported
tobacco, there is adequate potential to increase farmer incentives ensur-
ing both the future viability of TDC and the continued profitability of
JCF, without recourse to future government subsidy. However, for this, it
is necessary that the quality of tobacco produced is improved in order to
successfully substitute imports and that the issues relating to TDC (para
1.36) are resolved.
Constraints for Tobacco Production
1.39    From the above, and in summary the main constraints to production
of quality tobacco are:



-10-
(a)  poor extension and research support to farmers;
(b)  inadequate credit availability, resulting in low input use;
and
(c)  lack of advice to farmers on scientific harvesting and curing
techniques.
Sericulture
1.40    Sericulture consists of three activities: mulberry leaf production
as silkworm feed, silkworm rearing and silk reeling. Farmers can annually
rear three to four crops of silkworms which are sold as cocoons to DOA.
For each rearing, farmers are supplied with silkworm eggs by DOA and they
either sell fresh cocoons (NRs. 25/kg) or dry cocoons (NRs. 70/kg) back to
DOA.
1.41    Sericulture Farm - Khopasi.  Following feasibility studies carried
out by experts from Japan (1969) and Korea (1973), DOA established a
nucleus sericulture farm at Khopasi in Kavre district in 1975. The station
is located on an elevated part of the Kathmandu valley and is about 35 km
from Kathmandu. The farm, which is fully irrigated, has an area of 6.5 ha
of which 5 ha are under mulberry cultivation (one hectare being used as a
nursery area). A silkworm rearing house, filature reeling shed, cocoon
collection center, store and three staff quarters have been constructed.
A grainage 1/ and hatchery building have been constructed to plinth level
but further work has been stopped due to non availability of funds. The
farm is staffed by one Industrial Entomologist, four Assistant
Entomologists, two JT, and eight support staff.
1.42    The Khopasi nucleus sericulture farm has been designated as the
main center for sericulture development in Nepal under the overall direc-
tion of the Chief, Division of Entomology, DOA.
1.43    Mulberry Cultivation.  Mulberry is hardy and drought resistant and
is usually grown on land which is not generally suitable for cultivation
of food crops. Yields in Nepal average about 8,000 kg/ha of leaf. At
present about 30 ha of mulberry are being grown - 24 ha (90 farmers) in
Kavre district and 6 ha (30 farmers) in Syangja district. The require-
ments of cuttings for Kavre district are supplied from the Khopasi farm
and those of Syangja district from saplings grown by farmers and which are
sold at NRs. 60 per 1,000. The crop responds we'll to fertilizer applica-
tion and good cultivation practices and ADBN has recently started financ-
ing establishment of nurseries and field crops. But, due to overall
limitation of funds in ADBN, very few farmers have so far been provided
loans.
1/ Egg production unit.



-11-
1.44    Silkworms and Silkworm Rearing.  Nepal presently imports most of
its silkworm egg requirements and, in 1981, 160 egg boxes were imported
from Korea (sufficient for 16 ha). In addition, the Khopasi farm produces
a further 100 more egg boxes in an improvised shed. When the new grainage
is completed at Khopasi, annual production of eggs will be sufficient to
meet the leaf production of 100 ha of mulberry.
1.45    To date, silkworm rearing has been taken up by about 22 farmers -
20 in Kavre district and 2 in Syangja district. Due to non availability
of credit most farmers rear the silkworms inside their homes and which is
not the recommended practice as cocoons become contaminated from smoke.
Marketing of Cocoon and Reeling
1.46    At present all cocoons produced in Kavre and Syangja districts are
purchased by DOA and reeled by the filature reeling unit established at
Khopasi. This unit is adequate to produce 2.4 MT of raw silk per year.
Some farmers in SyangJa have already started using locally produced hand
operated reeling units.
1.47    Production of Silk Fabrics.  Nepal imports silk yarn from China
and India. Chinese 20-22 don raw silk is available in Kathmandu at NRs.
650 per kg (US$ 49.25). This is untwisted and can be utilized for a small
assortment of fabrics. Thrown - silk imported from India costs about NRs.
800 per kg (US$ 60.60). Most of the silk yarn imported is utilized in the
Balaju Industrial Area by the Handloom Silk House, Private Ltd. who has
offered to buy all the cocoons produced in Kavre and Syangia districts.
1.48    Constraints for increased Sericulture Production.  There is con-
siderable scope for expansion of sericultue in Kavre and Syangja dis-
tricts. The main constraints are:
(a) inadequate facilities for continuous egg production;
(b) lack of technical support for mulberry cultivation and
silkworm rearing in Syangja district;
(c) absence of funds from ADBN to meet farmers' credit needs;
(d) lack of training programs for farmers and inservice training
of staff; and
(e) inability of DOA to use trained staff for sericulture
development.



-12-
Ginger
1.49    Ginger cultivation is mainly concentrated in the hill districts of
Syangja, Palpa, Tanahu, and Kaski and in the Western Terai district of
Nawalparasi. Of the total ginger area of 1,800 ha, about 1,200 ha (67%)
are found in these five districts. Total ginger production in 1979-80 was
28,800 MT. The average yield of fresh ginger is about 16 MT/ha.
1.50    Research and Extension.  A part of the Horticultural Station at
Pokhara is devoted to research on the ginger crop. In the absence of
trained staff and physical facilities, very little work has been done in
relation to testing of new varieties, agronomic practices, and drying
methods. Research staff do not have any contact with growers and the
local varieties presently grown do not fetch a good price on the export
market. Advice to growers is non existant.
1.51    Drying.  Sun or smoke drying of the fresh crops is practiced by a
limited number of farmers. Past efforts by private agencies and ADBN to
evolve suitable driers and drying techniques have not produced any
results, mainly because of lack of interest among growers. Consequently,
farmers have been selling fresh ginger and this has posed problems of
marketing.
1.52    Marketing.  About 20% of the ginger produced in Nepal is consumed
locally and the rest is available for export.  Producers sell their crop
to local traders who act as representatives of larger wholesale traders,
generally based in the Terai. These wholesalers then export the produce
to India. As there is no official organized marketing system, farmers
obtain low prices.
1.53    In 1979/80, which was a peak production year, India banned the
entry of ginger from Nepal and, as a result, producers incurred heavy
losses. The area under ginger has since shrunk by about 80% and farmers
are reluctant to resume cultivation in the absence of appropriate market-
ing and processing arrangements.
D. Agricultural Institutions
Agricultural Extension.
1.54    The Director General of Agriculture is assisted by a Deputy Direc-
tor General (DDG), Extension and Training. The extension wing is repre-
sented at the region by a Regional Director of Agriculture who supervises
district level extension programs headed by an Agricultural Development
Officer/Assistant Agricultural Development Officer (ADO/AADO). Each
ADO/AADO is assisted by a number of JTs and JTAs each receiving two years
and one year training respectively. A recent innovation has been the



-13-
employment of Agricultural Assistants (AA) at the village level, who are
selected from among progressive farmers and retired servicemen. AAs
receive minimal training and serve on a part-time basis in areas adjacent
to their homes for which they are paid an allowance of NRs. 50 per month,
The extension wing of DOA employs about 151 graduate workers and 1,007
other staff (JT and JTA).
1.55    In recent years agricultural extension services in the Terai have
been reorganized under the "Training and Visit" (T&V) system of extension
through IDA assisted Narayani Irrigation Project (Cr. 856-NEP), Sunsari -
Morang Irrigation Project (Cr. 812-NEP), the Bhairawa - Lumbini
Groundwater Project (Cr. 654-NEP), and the Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (Cr. 1100-NEP). Of 20 districts in the Terai, 14 are now
covered by improved levels of extension. These districts are: Jhapa,
Sunsari, and Morang (Eastern Region); Rautahat, Parsa. Bara, Dhanusha,
Mahottari, Sarlahi, and Chitwan (Central Region); Nawalparasi, Rupandehi,
and Kapilavastu (Western Region) and Banke (Far Western Region). Sirha
and Saptari districts are being developed by the Asian Development Bank
assisted Integrated Rural Development Project which also ensures improved
extension services. In the Western Hills, under the IDA assisted Hill
Food Development Project (Cr. 1101-NEP), Lamjung, Syangja, Gorkha, Tanahu
districts have also been provided with improved extension services.
1.56    In the Terai, preservice training for Panchayat Level Agricultural
Assistants (PLAA) and inservice training of extension staff will be
provided at the four Regional Training Centers (RTC) located at Jhumka
(Eastern Region), Janakpur (Central Region), Bhairawa (Western Region),
and Napalganj (Far Western Region).
Agricultural Research
1.57    Agricultural Research is the responsibility of DOA and is
administered by a Deputy Director General (DDG). The research service
operates a total of 52 centers located throughout the country: 7 in
Eastern Region, 25 in Central Region, 10 in Western Region, and 10 in Far
Western Region. These consist of (a) research stations; (b) research
centers; and (c) research farms, the latter being mainly engaged in seed
multiplication. The research service is charged with the responsibility
for providing suitable agricultural technology for development of all the
regions and climatic zones of Nepal. Considerable progress has been made
under the Integrated Cereals Project, assisted by USAID. The program has
shown the benefits of a coordinated approach to rice, wheat, and maize
research and production.
1.58    Under the IDA assisted Agricultural Extension and Research Project
(Cr. 1100-NEP), agricultural research activities in the Terai are being
decentralized by designating four of the existing research stations as
Regional Research Stations (RRS). These are: Tarahara (Eastern Region),



-14-
Parwanipur (Central Region), Bhairawa (Western Region), and Nepalganj (Far
Western Region). In addition, two substations located at Nawalpari (Sar-
lahi district) and Hardinath (Janakpur district) are being developed.
1.59    Each RRS, headed by a Regional Research Coordinator, is respon-
sible for coordinating research activities on all research sub-stations
located within the region.  Research efforts focus on principal crops
grown under the different agroclimatic conditions prevailing in the juris-
diction of each RRS with special emphasis on varietal trials, improvement
of cultivation practices, dryland farming techniques, soil and water
management, improved farm implements, and farming systems and cropping
patterns designed to increase farmers' income levels. One Research Out-
reach Officer (ROO) has been provided for each RRS with responsibility for
organizing and carrying out adaptive trials on farmers' fields and to work
closely with subject matter specialists (SMS), extension staff, farmers,
and research workers, and form an important link between research and
extension. ROO also has an active role in training SMS which is carried
out at RRS once every two months.
1.60    Agricultural Credit.  The single major source of institutional
credit is ADBN, established in 1973. It is expected to provide the overal
credit requirements of agriculture and agro-based industries, and ensure
effective mobilization of rural savings. The Sajha (cooperative) program
provides short term production credit with funds made available from ADBN
for onlending to its members. More recently, commercial banks have also
become involved in agricultural credit but their volume of lending is
small.
1.61    ADBN is authorized to provide loans to individuals, companies, and
institutions engaged in agricultural production. More specifically, its
functions are: (a) to provide short, medium and long term credit to
cooperatives and corporate bodies engaged in agriculture development; (b)
to provide loans directly to farmers for the purchase of seed, fertilizer,
pesticides, farm machinery, and irrigation equipment; (c) to invest in
small scale industries engaged in processing farm products and manufactur-
ing inputs required for agriculture; and (d) to provide banking facilities
in places where commercial banks are not established. The standard terms
and conditions of lending by ADBN are 18 months duration for short term
loans with a 15% annual interest rate, 7 years for medium loans at 12%
annual interest rate, and 20 years for long term loans with an 8% interest
rate. ADBN has no constraints in the delivery of credit as it has offices
located throughout the country.
1.62    Lending operations of ADBN have decreased in the last few years
as shown below:



-1 5-
ADBN LOANS AND ADVANCES
(NRs. '000)
1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81
I. TERM-WISE
Short Term                    171,191   113,112    80,813    81,554
Medium Term                    89,560    87,135    54,384    40,972
Long Term                      21,771    17,741    12,658    11,608
Total                     282,522   217,988   147,855   134,134
II. PURPOSE-WISE
Cereal and Cash
Crop Production              72,245    56,428    45,199    39,140
Farm Mechanization
and Irrigation               43,321    41,984    22,747    17,148
Livestock, Poultry,
and Fisheries                32,813    35,965    26,182    22,632
Agro-Industry,
Marketing and
Warehousing                 121,431    70,325    43,001    44,866
Horticulture                    7,561      7,852      5,227     3,145
Tea                             5,151      5,434     5,499      7,203
Total                     282,522   217,988   147,855   134,134
The main reasons for a substantial fall in lending are: inadequate resour-
ces made available to ADBN for on-lending, a low recovery position from
Sajhas and which has been around 30 to 40% only, lengthy and complicated
procedures for borrowing, and dificulties in establishing collateral for
loans.
1.63    Cooperatives.  The Sajha development program was introduced in
early 1976 to revitalize the cooperative movement, mobilize local savings,
and to link economic development with political decentralization at the
local level. The objectives of the Sajhas are to provide credit, agricul-
tural inputs and marketing facilities, as well as to sell consumer goods
(salt, kerosene, course cloth, diesel oil, rice and sugar). At present,
one Sajha serves on an average, three to four panchayats. Further, at the
village panchayat level, they act as the local agent of the Agricultural
Inputs Corporation. There are 1,170 registered societies.
1.64    Agricultual Inputs.  The Agricultural Input Corporation (AIC), is
the sole government agency responsible for supply of inputs and was estab-
lished in its present form in 1975/76. Its functions include: (a) impor-
tation and distribution of chemical fertilizers and maintenance of a



-16-
buffer stock sufficient for at least one cropping season; (b) collection,
processing, storage and distribution of improved seeds and assistance to
DOA in conducting seed multiplication programs; (c) procurement and dis-
tribution of agricultural chemicals for plant protection and grain
storage; and (d) distribution of locally manufactured agricultural tools
and implements as well as importation and distribution of agricultural
machinery.
1.65    AIC multiplies improved seed of food crops through contract
growers. In addition, all seed produced on government farms is dis-
tributed through the Corporation.
The Bank's Role in the Agricultural Sector
1166    The Bank, through its current and proposed programs, seeks to
assist Nepal's agricultural objectives and strategies and as set out in
its Development Plans. Past investments have been predominantly oriented
towards increasing agricultural production, especially of foodgrains, with
emphasis on the development of agriculture of the Terai and its irrigation
infrastructure - the Birganj and Narayani Irrigation Projects (Cr.373 and
856), the Sunsari - Morang Irrigation Project (Cr. 812), the Bhairawa -
Lumbini Groundwater Project (Cr. 654) and the Mahakali Irrigation Project
(Cr. 1055) together with the Babai Engineering Credit Project (Cr. 1003)
are all directed to these ends. The Agricultural Extension and Research
Project (Cr. 1100) will assist the reorganization of extension services in
eight districts of the Terai and strengthen applied and adaptive research.
In addition, IDA is assisting with the implementation of two integrated
rural development projects in the Hills - the first and second Rural
Development Projects (Cr. 617 and 939), which also address hill food
production and include minor irrigation components. The Hill Food Produc-
tion Project (Cr. 1101) pays particular attention to improving extension,
input supply and minor irrigation schemes in the Gandaki Zone. The Com-
munity Forestry Development Project (Cr. 1008) addresses urgent ecological
problems in the Hills.



-17-
II. THE PROJECT AREA
The Terai Region
2.01    The Terai lies below the southern foothills of the Siwalik range
and stretches westwards as part of the Indo-Gangetic Plain. The region
extends 800 km in an east-west direction and 220 km in the north south
direction. The elevation of the region varies from 100 meters a.s.l. 1/
near the Indian border to 500 meters a.s.l. 1/ near the hills.  There are
20 administrative districts in the Terai region, all having a common
border with India.
2.02    Climate.  The average annual temperature is 240C.  Temperatures
are high between March and October when the mean monthly range is between
21 and 300C. November to February are cold winter months with mean
monthly temperatures between 14 and 23°C. The average rainfall is 1,600
mm per year. There is considerable annual variation in the duration of
the rainy season, and in the total amount of rainfall. The average number
of rainy days is 81. The peak season is from June to September when 80%
of rainfal occurs.
2.03    Soils.  The Terai plain forms the piedmont in the nothern part of
the Indo-Gangetic depression which has been filled by recent alluvial
material derived from the Himalayas. Soils vary from sandy to silty with
thick gravel fans in the northern part. The soil pattern changes from
north to south and also from east to west depending upon nearness to
sources. The texture of soil varies from coarse sandy to gravelly on foot
hill slopes to medium sandy and silty in the middle of the Terai, and to
somewhat clayey near the Nepal-India border.
2.04    Land Use.  Over 60% of the land area in the Eastern Region is
under cultivation. In the Central Region, the percentage of cultivated
area ranges from 64% (67,740 ha) in Mahottari district to 19% (48,945 ha)
in Chitaun district. In the Western Region, the area cultivated ranges
from 18% (26,415 ha) in Nawalparasi to 45% (80,391 ha) in Kapilavastu
district, but is lowest in Far-Western Region with 15% (49,287 ha) in
Kailali district.
2.05    Irrigation.  According to current estimates, about 250,000 ha
receive some form of irrigation. Out of this, about 150,000 ha are
irrigated from private water sources and the remainder from government
schemes which are concentrated mostly in Eastern and Central Regions.
1/ a.s.l. - above sea level.



-18-
The Hill Region
2.06    Because of the very rugged topography, arable agriculture in the
Hills is limited to valley bottom land and to slopes which have been
terraced. Overall, some 600,000 ha are estimated to be under cultivation
in the Hills. This is less than one-third of the total area cropped in
Nepal. The Hill population is currently estimated at 7.8 M, or almost 60X
of the total population and density exceeds 13 persons per ha of cul-
tivated land as against less than six persons per ha in the Terai.
Through constant subdivision, the average holding size is now less than
0.5 ha, compared to an average of 1.7 ha in the Terai. Farms are frag-
mented (five to seven parcels per farm) and mostly owner-operated. The
shortage of good land increasingly forces the cultivation of steep or
unstable slopes with consequent low yields and increasing erosion. The
already massive erosion caused by natural forces is further accelerated by
overgrazing of pasture lands, defoliation for livestock fodder and
destruction of forests in the search for firewood and timber.
The Project Districts
2.07    The project would cover 12 districts of which nine are in the
Terai, one in the Kathmandu Valley and two in the Hills (see Map). Sugar-
cane development would be confined to Bara, Parsa and a small part of
Rautahat districts (Terai); tobacco development to Sarlahi, Mahottari,
Dhanusha, and Sirha districts (Terai); sericulture development to Kavre
district (Kathmandu Valley) and Syangja district (Hills); and oilseed
development to Rautahat, Sarlahi, Chitaun, and Nawalparasi (Terai) dis-
tricts. Ginger research will be carried out at Pokhara in Kaski district
(Hills).
2.08    The total cropped area in the nine Terai districts is about
680,000 ha of which 620,000 ha are under food crops and 59,000 ha under
cash crops. In the districts selected for cash crop development, the
areas under different cash crops are: Sugarcane - 4,660 ha; Tobacco -
1,650 ha; and Oilseeds - 24,000 ha.
2.09    The present area under mulberry cultivation is about 30 ha.
Ginger is cultivated over an area of 1,200 ha in Syangja, Palpa, Tanahu,
and Kaski districts in the Hills.
Agricultural Extension Services
2.10    In most of the project districts an intensive agricultural exten-
sion service will be available to farmers. The "T&V" system of extension
is being implemented in Bara, Parsa, Rautahat, Dhanusha, Mahottari,
Sarlahi, Chitaun, and Nawalparasi districts (para 1.55). Syangja district
is included in the IDA assisted Hill Food Development Project (para 1.55).
Sirha district is covered by the Asian Development Bank assisted



-19-
Integrated Rural Development Project and which also ensures improved
extension coverage. In Kavre district, extension support is provided by
the existing staff of DOA.
2.11    In the T&V districts, one to two PLAAs work in each panchayat and
with each PLAA covering 550-1350 farm families. JTA give technical sup-
port to PLAA in three panchayats, with one JT supervising the work of
three JTA. To strengthen technical back up and provide regular training
to PLAA, JTA, and JT, each district is covered by two SMS, one each in
agronomy and plant protection. Under the system, PLAA, JTA, and JT make
farm visits on a fixed day of the week to provide farmars up to date
advice on farming practices best suited to their specific conditions and
capable of having an immediate impact on production. Once every fortnight
extension staff participate in a training program (conducted by SMS) where
they discuss and learn recommended practices to be given to farmers during
their next round of farm visits and also bring farmers' problems to the
notice of trainers. A similar pattern of extension service is provided in
Syangja district with slight modifications to suit local hill conditions.
In Sirha district, however, the T&V system has not been implemented but
extension services have been strengthened by providing 60 AAs at the
panchayat level, 27 JTAs, and 11 JTs whose area of operation is based upon
9 subcenters located throughout the district.
Agricultural Research
2.12    Under the IDA assisted Agricultural Extension and Research
Project, applied and adaptive research facilities in the Terai have been
strengthened (para 1.58). The research effort is being decentralized by
designating four existing research stations as RRS. All the research
stations in the project area, Jitpur (Sugarcane), Belachapi (Tobacco), and
Nawalpur (Oilseeds) fall within the jurisdiction of the Regional Research
Station for Central Region, located at Parwanipur (Bara district). Under
the project, coordination between research and extension is being promoted
through Central and District Technical Committees and organization of
regional workshops. A system for evolution of extension recommendations
has been designed wherein research and extension have been given specific
responsibilities.
Rationale for Selection of Crops
2.13    Nepal's sixth plan envisages crop intensification as a means of
increasing food supplies and improving self sufficiency in the production
of raw material required for agro-based industries serving domestic needs
and export markets. To meet the latter needs, the Plan emphasizes the
development of sugarcane, tea, tobacco, oilseeds and jute in the Terai and
light weight but high value crops like ginger, medicinal plants, spices,
cardamom and sericulture in the Hills. The rationale for selection of
those cash crops included in the proposed project is based on the follow-
ing considerations:



-20-
(a)  the importance of the crop in terms of its contribution to
GDP;
(b)  the need and opportunity for increased production and for
minimizing imports;
(c)  the availability of viable processing and marketing institu-
tions and the prospects for their future development; and
(d)  the assistance already available to Nepal from external
sources.
In addition, Nepal's comparative advantage in the production of these cash
crops was considered. The contribution of important cash crops to GDP,
export earning and their share in total import is given at Annex 2.
2.14    Nepal is not self sufficient in respect of its requirements of
tea, vegetable oils, sugar and tobacco (see Annex 2). While the country
has been importing substantial quantities of tobacco and vegetable oil,
annual sugar imports have varied depending on weather, domestic production
and market demands. However, with increasing population (currently grow-
ing at 2.6% annually) the demand for all these commodities will continue
to rise. At this stage, the need for new processing facilities has not
been entertained and as a first step the project seeks to ensure the
efficient utilization of existing processing units and thus help prevent
substantial outlays of scarce foreign exchange in importation of these
commodities.
2.15    Under the project, it is envisaged that there will be no increase
in the area planted to sugarcane but that yields would be increased over a
limited area so as to ensure that BSF is able to operate at maximum
efficiency with savings in transportation costs and sugar recovery.
2.16    Tobacco development seeks to ensure import substitution of high
quality and highly priced tobacco required for blending of better grade
cigarettes. Presently Nepal is importing about 1,500 MT annually of high
grade tobaccos costing NRs. 29.0 M (US$ 2.0 M). The project would sys-
tematically seek to reduce imports by about 52% over the project period.
2,17    Though overall oilseed production has increased in the last
several years, yields of rape and mustard crops are low. Nepal continues
to import vegetable oil costing about NRs. 3.0 M (US$ 0.20 M) annually and
has established a vegetable ghee industry in the public sector which has
currently to import all raw materials (mostly groundnut) in the absence of
local production. The project would lay the foundation for a future area
expansion program of groundnut to meet the needs of this new industry and
meanwhile raise domestic production of rape and mustard oil through higher
yields.



-21-
2.18    Sericulture development in the hills is primarily aimed at
increasing cash incomes of small farmers by making optimal use of marginal
arable land. Furthermore, ginger is a high value crop of farmers in some
Hill districts but due to inadequate research and marketing facilities,
its production is at a low ebb. Research in production related aspects
and drying methods would help redress this position.
2.19    Comparative Advantage.  To determine Nepal's comparative advantage
in the production of sugarcane, tobacco and groundnut, the cost of import-
ing these commodities was compared with the economic costs of domestic
production. In estimating the latter, the opportunity cost of land was
estimated in terms of the economic value of maize and wheat output
foregone. An opportunity cost of 12% has been used. In all cases it is
found that Nepal has a comparative advantage in the production of these
crops.
III THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01    The project would promote the commercial production of sugarcane,
tobacco, and oilseeds (rape and mustard), and initiate pilot development
of sericulture and groundnut, and strengthen the existing ginger research
facilities.  The five year project would comprise:
(a) Increased sugarcane production on 4,660 ha through improve-
ment of research and agricultural extension services,
development of a seed multiplication program, provision of
short term credit to canegrowers and upgrading and construc-
tion of feeder roads;
(b) Yield increase and improvement in quality of tobacco grown on
2,800 ha by strengthening of research and extension services,
improvement of tobacco redrying facilities, provision of
short and medium term credit to growers for production pur-
poses and barn improvement, and by staff and farmer training
and technical assistance;
(c) Pilot development of sericulture through establishment of
150 ha of mulberry, provision of staff, training, vehicles,
equipment and facilities for silkworm production and rearing,
and provision of short and medium term credit to farmers for
nursery establishment, mulberry cultivation and silkworm
rearing;



-22-
(d)  Yields increases over 4,800 ha of rape and mustard crops
through strengthening of research, and provision of short
term credit to growers and pilot development of groundnut
production (350 ha) through research, varietal selection,
seed production and production credit; and
(e) Strengthening of ginger research and initiation of a market-
ing study.
B. Detailed Features
Sugarcane Development
3.02    The project would increase yields and overall production of sugar-
cane so that BSF would be able to meet its entire milling requirements
from farmers in Bara, Parsa and part of Rautahat districts (within 30 km
distance from the factory). There would be no increase in the present
area under cane and yield improvement would come from improved research,
better advice to growers, planting of improved seed, use of optimal levels
of inputs provided through short term credit, and by better and timely
crop extraction through a road improvement program.
3.03    Research.  The research station at Jitpur (located in Bara dis-
trict within the cane growing areas) would have main responsibility for
applied and adaptive research to provide practical answers to farmers'
problems. Research would be conducted on a multidisciplinary team
approach with adaptive field trials being conducted at the research sta-
tion and on farmers' fields. Major areas of research would be varietal
selection, improved cultivation practices for the main and ratoon crops,
pest and disease control and use of bullock drawn farm implements. To
achieve these goals, the project would supplement existing facilities by
providing: (a) a laboratory-cum-office building and housing for staff, (b)
bullock drawn farm implements, (c) equipment and furniture for laboratory
and office, (d) farm and staff vehicles, (e) modest staff support (one
botanist and a typist), and (f) incremental costs of operating the
research program. Details are given in Annex 3, Table 2.
3.04    Research station activities would be coordinated in the manner
described in paras 1.59 and 2.12.
3.05    Sugarcane Extension.  Extension support for sugarcane development,
which is at present the responsibility of BSF, would, in future, be
provided by DOA staff already working in Bara, Parsa, and Rautahat dis-
tricts where the "T&V" system of extension is in operation and supported
under the Narayani Irrigation Project (Cr. 856). Prior to negotiations,
HMGN had taken a formal decision regarding transfer of sugarcane extension
responsibilities to DOA. An understanding was reached during negotiations



-23-
that HMGN would present to the Association by January 15, 1983 official
letters authorizing the transfer of responsibility for sugarcane extension
to DOA. One SMS in sugarcane production would be provided under the
project and who would work with existing SMS in providing training and
technical support to village level extension staff in the field and for
maintaining a regular dialogue with research. Trained staff are available
in DOA. The present field staff of BSF, who are largely concentrating on
credit and input supply and on running the cane buying centers, would
continue to do this work. They would, however, participate in the fort-
nightly training of other extension staff to ensure that they are familiar
with current recommendations for cane growing. The project would provide
funds for housing, transport, equipment, salaries and operating costs for
the one SMS (Annex 3, Table 2).
3.06    Seed Production.  To ensure regular and adequate supplies of
improved seed to farmers, foundation seed would be grown on 5 ha at the
Jitpur Sugarcane Research Station and 38 ha at the Simra nucleus farm
belonging to BSF. The foundation seed would then be distributed to
registered seed growers for further multiplication and distribution to
sugarcane growers. By the end of the project period, about 45% of the
area under cane would be covered with improved seed and 75% by the seventh
year. Detailed phasing is at Annex 3, Table 2(b).
3.07    Improvements would be necessary at the Simra Farm for seed produc-
tion and the project would provide for the fencing of 38 ha of land  and
improvements to the irrigation system (Annex 3, Table 2).  No additional
staff is proposed but supervision and advice would be provided by the
Sugarcane Agronomist, Jitpur Station who already acts as a consultant to
BSF.  As registered seed growers have to take special care in cultivation
of the foundation seed supplied to them, an incentive premium of NRs.
30/MT would be paid for seed produced. Details of cost are at Annex 3,
Table 2.
3.08    Production Credit.  The present low yield of sugarcane is
primarily due to the shortage of funds available with ADBN for onlending
to cane growers. Furthermore, the current recommended level of credit
(NRs. 2,800/ha) is well below that needed to obtain high yields (NRs.
4,800/ha).  At present, only 25% of growers receive the current recom-
mended level of NRs. 2,800/ha and 75% of growers obtain lesser amounts
(averaging NRs. 390/ha) causing yields to be further substantially
reduced. The project would provide the incremental credit needs of cane
growers to ensure that all farmers could obtain the recommended level of
NRs. 4,800/ha. The phased increase in incremental credit needs are given
at Annex 3, Tables 2 and 2(c).
3.09    Road Development.  The project would provide funds for raising the
road level (by about one metre) and gravelling of 59 kms of existing
feeder roads, and construction of two small bridges and development of 5



kms of new road (see Map IBRD 16604). The works would be executed by the
Roads Department and would bring the standard of the roads to that of all
weather status. As the operations involved are labor intensive, simple
and well known to the Roads Department, no additional facilities or staff
would be required. All work would be done by local contractors. Assuran-
ces were obtained during negotiations that the Roads Department would
continue to maintain these roads after the project period. Details of
cost are given at Annex 3, Table 2 and 2(d).
Tobacco Development.
3.10    The project strategy envisages increases in tobacco yields and
quality. This would be ensured by intensification of extension and
research efforts in the tobacco growing areas, provision of credit to
growers, by improving redrying and storage facilities and provision of
farmer training and technical assistance.
3.11    Research.  The Belachapi research station, located in the project
area, would have main responsibility for applied and adaptive tobacco
research and provide practical answers to farmers' problems. The research
station, presently under the administrative control of TDC, would be
transferred to DOA so that it becomes part of the overall research
organization under DOA. Prior to negotiations, HMGN had taken a formal
decision regarding transfer of Belchapi Research Station to DOA. An
understanding was reached during negotiations that HMGN would present to
the Association by January 15, 1983 official letters authorizing the
transfer of responsibility for tobacco research to DOA and thus bring it
within the mainstream of agricultural research in Nepal. The research
station would also conduct adaptive fields trials on farmers' fields.
Major areas of research would be on varietal selection, development of
improved nursery and cultivation practices, pest and disease control, and
improved harvesting, curing and grading techniques. To achieve these
goals, the project would strengthen existing facilities by providing
staff, staff quarters, motorcycles, laboratory equipment, and the
incremental costs of operating the research program. Details are given at
Annex 3, Table 3.
3.12    Research station activities would be coordinated in the manner
described in paras 1.59 and 2.12.
3.13    Tobacco Extension.  Under the project, extension support for
tobacco development, which is at present the responsibility of TDC, would
be provided by DOA staff. Prior to negotiations, HMGN had taken a formal
decision regarding transfer of tobacco extension responsibilities to DOA.
An understanding was reached during negotiations that HMGN would present
to the Association by January 15, 1983 official letters authorizing the
transfer of responsibility for tobacco research to DOA. Of the four



-25-
tobacco growing project districts, Sarlahi, Mahottari, and Dhanusha dis-
tricts are included in the IDA assisted Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (Cr. 1100), and Sirha is part of the Asian Development
Bank assisted Integrated Rural Development Project. In both projects,
adequate extension staff are being provided to meet the needs of an
expanded extension effort.
3.14    The project would, however, provide two SMSs in tobacco production
and who would be located at Sarlahi and Dhanusha. Trained SMSs are avail-
able in DOA. The tobacco SMS would work with existing SMS in providing
fortnightly training and technical support to field extension staff, and
maintaining a regular dialogue with tobacco research workers concerning
farmers' problems and their solution. The present field staff of TDC
would continue to coordinate credit and input supplies to tobacco growers
and run the tobacco buying depots and help in redrying operations. They
would, however, participate in the fortnightly training of extension staff
(to ensure that they are familiar with current recommendations for tobacco
growing). The project provides funds for housing, vehicles, salaries, and
operating costs of two SMSs (Annex 3, Table 3).
3.15    Tobacco Redrying.  The existing storage and redrying facilities
at JCF are poor resulting in loss of tobacco leaf (para 1.35). The
project provides for the relocation of this redrying plant to the new
redrying unit constructed by TDC. It would be necessary to provide power
and water supplies at the new site and some additional staff (to ensure
that the plant operates on a three shift basis during the redrying season)
and to these ends funds would be provided for (a) purchase of two gener-
ators and transport, (b) electrical fittings and water supply arrange-
ments, (c) staff quarters, (d) a modest staff increase, and (e) opera-
tional costs for running the third shift. Details are at Annex 3, Table
3.
3.16    Fuel Needs.  The present annual fuel requirements for tobacco
curing is 10,000 MT of fuelwood which would increase to 19,000 MT by the
end of the project due to increased production of high quality (FCV)
tobacco. Present and future planting programs would ensure that NFC would
be able to supply about 18,000 MT annually. To meet the expected short-
fall and to economize on fuelwood consumption, the project would provide
for reducing the size of 150 large size barns (6m x 6m x 4.8m) to a level
considered more fuel efficient (4.8m x 4.8m x 4.8m). This would reduce
the total annual fuel consumption to some 17,650 MT. Of this, 15,000 MT
would be available from NFC and the rest would be provided through head
loads carried from forests under existing arrangements (para 1.30).  The
cost of remodelling would be treated as a medium term loan to barn owners.
Details of cost are given at Annex 3, Table 3.



-26-
3417    Short-Term Credit.  The project proposes to increase tobacco
yields and improve the quality of tobacco leaf. This would be achieved
by, among otlher measures, increased use of inputs (fertilizer, pesticides
and labor). However, ADBN, due to a general shortage of funds for onlend-
ing to growers (para 1.28) is unable to meet more than a small part of
the growers present credit requirements. The project would, therefore,
provide for incremental credit needs of farmers and details are given at
Annex 3, Tables 3 and 3(b).
3.18    Training and Technical Assistance.  The project provides for
employmernt, on a contract basis, of trained tobacco curers to work with
local tobacco growers so as to upgrade their barn management and curing
techniques. Curers would be employed from India and work in Nepal for a
period of six months (from December-May) each year throughout the project
period. The project also includes provision for a Tobacco Production
Specialist who would work with field staff during the growing season of
six months each year. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the tobacco curers and Tobacco Production Specialist will be in position
by December 1, 1983 and June 30, 1983 respectively, and thereafter start
work on the same dates in each of the following project years. Details of
cost are at Annex 3, Table 3. The terms of reference of the Tobacco
Production Specialist are at Annex 3, Table 9.
3.19    Tobacco Pricing.  Presently, the prices being charged for tobacco
sold to JCF (by TDC) do not provide an adequate margin to TDC, to ensure
full overhead recovery and a return to capital invested. Furthermore,
the present price structure for payment to farmers, for different grades
of tobacco, is so structured as to provide little incentive to produce the
higher grades. Prior to negotiations HMGN decided (a) to review the
pricing policy of tobacco sales by TDC to JCF, and (b) to agree with the
Association on a policy for establishing the price paid to tobacco
growers. An understanding was reached during negotiations that as a
condition for Board presentation, HMGN would constitute a Tobacco Pricing
Policy Committee by January 15, 1983 and formulate a pricing policy which
would be provided to the Association for review by February 15, 1983.
3.20    In order to ensure an annual review of tobacco prices, HMGN would
establish a high level committee comprising one representative each from
MOA, MDOI, ADBN, JCF, and TDC which would have responsibility for recom-
mending the prices to be paid to farmers and the rates at which tobacco
should be sold to JCF. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that
such a Committee would be established and hold its first meeting by
February 28, 1983.
3.21    Tobacco Development Company.  The TDC is in poor financial status
(para 1.36). HMGN has already agreed to commission an expert study of TDC
to:



-27-
(a) Correctly establish the asset and liability position of TDC
and determine the exact magnitude of accumulated losses;
(b) Define in what manner the past accumulated losses of TDC
should be financed, and what should be the role of HMGN and
JCF in this;
(c) Determine future pricing policies, especially the sale price
of tobacco to JCF, to ensure full recovery of all overhead
costs incurred by TDC;
(d) Examine the rationale for recovery of a service charge from
farmers of NRs. 0.30 per kg of tobacco purchased;
(e) Review the relationship between JCF and TDC in the light of
the former being the only domestic buyer of tobacco from TDC;
and
(f) Examine the present management structure of TDC and recommend
measures to improve its overall efficiency.
The study would also determine if TDC has a continued role in tobacco
production in Nepal.
3.22    Prior to negotiations, HMGN completed the proposed study of TDC's
financial situation, and appointed Chairman JCF as head of both TDC and
JCF.
Sericulture Development
3.23    The project proposes for a substantial increase in silkworm egg
production at the main sericulture station at Khopasi (Kavre district)
so as to meet the needs of 200 ha of existing and new mulberry area to be
developed by the fifth project year. Of the new area, 100 ha would be
grown in Kavre district and 50 ha in Syangja district. A sericulture
subcenter would be established near Walling in Syangja district to provide
technical support to farmers, hatching and supply of silkworms and pur-
chase of cocoon.
3.24    To achieve the above, the project would:
(a) Khopasi Sericulture Station. Construct an egg production
unit, hatchery, training hall and staff housing; provide a
vehicle and hatchery equipment; and allow for modest
strengthening of staff and incremental operating costs;



-28-
(b) Walling Subcenter. Construct subcenter building and staff
housing; provide for hatchery equipment, cocoon drier and a
motorcycle, and allow for strengthening of staff and
incremental operating costs.
Details of cost are given in Annex 3, Table 4.
3.25    The project requires one Assistant Sericulture Entomologist to be
located at the subcenter in Syangja district. Such a person already
exists and an assurance was obtained during negotiations that HMGN would
post a trained Assistant Sericulture Entomologist to the Walling subcenter
by June 30, 1983.
3.26    Reeling Units.  The project would provide funds for testing of
different types of hand operated reeling units (charkhas) so that those
most economical and acceptable to growers could then be fabricated within
the country. The testing would be carried out both in Kavre and Syangja
districts.
3.27    Training.  The project provides for training of farmers in mul-
berry cultivation and silkworm rearing, and inservice training of staff
both in the project area and in a neighboring country. Details are at
Annex 3, Table 4.
3.28    Credit.  ADBN has formulated norms for medium term lending to
sericulturists but the present level of lending is very low due to
shortage of funds for onlending. The project provides for incremental
short term credit to selected farmers for establishment of mulberry nur-
series and medium term credit for 150 ha of mulberry cultivation and
silkworm rearing. The phased program for nursery development, mulberry
cultivation and silkworm rearing together with associated credit needs are
given at Annex 3, Tables 4 and 4(a).
Oilseed Development
3.29    Research.  The National Oilseed Research Station, Sarlahi has
already been strengthened under the Agricultural Research and Extension
Project. The project, however, would provide for an additional Oilseed
Agronomist. Details of staff and operating costs are at Annex 3, Table 5.
3.30    Rape and Mustard.  The project would also provide short term
credit to growers to permit increases in production of the rape and mus-
tard crops in Nawalparasi, Chitwan, Sarlahi, and Rautahat districts.
Incremental credit would be provided to meet the needs of 4,800 ha of
these crops and which would be phased over the five years project period.



-29-
3.31    Groundnut.  In order to meet the material needs of the Nepal
Vanaspati Ghee Industries (NVGI), HMGN intends to substantially increase
groundnut production. In the absence of suitable varieties and
appropriate agronomic practices for expanded groundnut cultivation, the
project would emphasize the need for intensive research work and which
would be carried out in the first three project years. Once suitable
varieties and practices have been established (and which are expected by
the fourth project year) the project would provide short term credit for
groundnut farmers covering the growing of 350 ha of the crop. The ground-
nut produced by farmers during the project period would all be purchased
by NVGI as a source of improved seed and would then be distributed to
farmers at a price agreed between NVGI and DOA. An assurance was obtained
during negotiations that NVGI would purchase all suitable groundnut seed
produced by farmers and ensure its further distribution to growers.
3.32    The phased program for oilseed development and associated credit
needs are given at Annex 3, Table. 5 and 5(a).
Ginger Development
3.33    The project provides for strengthening of ginger research at
Pokhara with small additional staff support and provision of a number of
small but different ginger drying units for testing. The project also
provides for a ginger marketing study to be completed by December 31,
1984. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that HMGN would make
available an area of 3 ha for ginger research at the Pokhara Horticultural
Station, and complete, by December 31, 1984 and furnish to IDA, the
marketing study and a report on drying units tested. Details of cost are
at Annex 3, Table 6.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.34    A monitoring and evaluation system would be established to gener-
ate data with which to measure output, effects and impact of project
actions, thus providing management guidance to those responsible for
project implementation. Monitoring would consist of the continuous
gathering of information on project inputs and activities (timely provi-
sion of staff, vehicles, equipment and buildings). This information would
alert project management and policy makers to problems of implementation
requiring corrective action and provide part of the data necessary for
evaluation. Project evaluation would analyse project output (increase in
raw material production), effects (production of products) and general
developmental impact.
3.35    Monitoring and Evaluation would be the responsibility of the
Evaluation and Program Analysis Division (EPAD) of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) assisted by the Food and Marketing Services Department
(FAMSD) of MOA. Responsibilities would be divided as follows:



-30-
(a) FA1ISD would assume responsibility for obtaining, collating
and compiling, on an annual basis, all relevant data on those
cash crops to be developed under the project - area, yields,
total production; and
(b) EPAD would have responsibility for developing a system for
continuous monitoring of progress of project inputs and
activities, and would carry out short term evaluation studies
as required.
Funds would be provided under the project for carrying out monitoring and
evaluation studies. Details are given at Annex 3, Table 7. The Ministry
of Agriculture (MOA) would commission this work to be carried out by
organizations existing in Nepal and which are suitable for the purpose.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that FAMSD would be respon-
sible for collecting data (area, yields and total production) on those
cash crops to be developed under the project.
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01    Total project costs over the five year period (1983-88) are
estimated at NRs. 97.11 M (US$7.36 M) of which the foreign exchange com-
ponent is estimated at US$1.83 M (about 25% of total project cost).
Duties and taxes included in total costs are negligible and estimated at
US$30,000 equivalent. Physical contingencies are estimated at 20% on road
costs, 15% on buildings and tobacco redrying costs and 10% on other plant
and vehicle operating costs, and which account for about 8% of the base
cost. Price contingencies have been applied in accordance with current
Bank estimates of expected inflation rates (1983: 9%; 1984: 8%; 1985:
7.5%; 1986: 7%; 1987 onwards: 6% for local costs and 1983: 8%; 1984:
7.7%; 1985: 7.2%; 1986: 6.5%; 1987 onwards: 6% for foreign costs) and
compounded accordingly and which account for about 25% of the base cost.
Estimated project costs detailed in Annex 3, Table 1 are summarized below:



-31-
Summary of Project Costs by Expenditure
NRs. Million               US$ Million         % of Total
Cateaory               Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total         Cost
Civil Works                  16.98   12.15   29.13       1.28   0.93     2.21        30
Vehicles                       -       1.11    1.11       -     0.08     0.08         1
Equipment and Furniture       0.38    2.00    2.38      0.03   0.15      0.18         2
Credit                       32.11     -      32.11     2.43    -        2.43        33
Monitoring and Evaluation    1.20       -      1.20      0.09    -       0.09         1
Incremental Staff Costs       2.36     -       2.36     0.18    -        0.18         2
Incremental Operating Cost   2.30    0.95    3.25       0.18   0.07      0.25         4
Training and Tech. Services  0.63    1.24    1.87       0.05   0.09      0.14         2
BASE COSTS                 55.96   17.45   73.41      4.24   1.32      5.56        75
Physical Contingencies        3.25    2.37    5.62      0.25   0.18      0.43         6
Price Contingencies          13.69    4.39   18.08       1,04   0.33      1.37       19
TOTAL PROJECT COST         72.90   24.21   97.11      5.53   1.83      7.36       100
Summary of Project Cost by Components
NRs. Million               US$ Million         % of Total
Component              Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total        Cost
Sugarcane                    29.60    9.91   39.51      2.24    0.75    2.99         41
Tobacco                      15.39    5.55   20.94       1.17    0.42    1.59        21
Sericulture                   6.97    1.87    8.84      0.53    0.14    0.67          9
Oilseeds                      2.31      -      2.31     0.17      -      0.17         2
Ginger                        0.49    0.12    0.61      0.04    0.01    0.05          1
Monitoring and Evaluation    1.20       -      1.20     0.09      -      0.09         1
BASE COSTS                 55.96   17.45   73.41      4.24    1.32    5.56         75
Physical Contingencies        3.25    2.37    5.62      0.25    0.18    0.43          6
Price Contingencies          13.69    4.39   18.08       1.04    0.33    1.37        19
TOTAL PROJECT COST         72.90   24.21   97.11      5.53    1.83    7.36        100
B. Proposed Financing
4.02    Financing of total project costs of NRs. 96.76 M (US$ 7.33 M)
including contingencies, but net of taxes and duties, would be provided
as follows:



-32-
Total Costs        Percentage
US$ M
IDA                               6.00                82
HMGN                              1.33                 18
Total                             7.33               100
The proposed IDA credit of US$ 6.0 M would be to HMGN on standard terms
and conditions and would finance about 82% of project costs, including all
foreign exchange costs.
4.03    IDA funds would be channeled through the Ministry of Finance to
participating ministerial budgets. Agricultural credit funds (US$ 2.43 M
and net of price contingencies) would be on-lent to ADBN at rates equiv-
alent to present rediscount facilities of the Central Bank. In line with
present policy, ADBN would lend to cooperatives at 11% and 8%, who, in
turn, would on-lend to farmers at 15% and 12% for short and medium-term
loans respectively.
4.04    Assurances were obtained during negotiations that HMGN would (a)
make adequate and timely budgetory provisions for implementation of the
project, (b) cause ADBN to maintain the amount of credit for cash crop
production in the project area at a level not less than that in effect as
of the date of this agreement, and (c) make available to ADBN upto US$2.43
M (NRs. 32.11 M) equivalent under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between HMGN and ADBN which shall establish procedures and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
C. Procurement
4.05    The main items to be financed under the project are: civil works
including feeder roads; equipment, machinery and furniture; motor vehicles
and motorcycles; project monitoring; and incremental staff and operating
costs.
4.06    Civil Works.  All buildings (US$ 0.86 M) would be unsuitable for
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) because they would be small and
distributed throughout the project area. Similarly, improvement of feeder
roads (US$ 2.36 M) is simple and labor intensive and would be located in
interior areas of two districts. Accordingly, construction of buildings
and feeder roads would be awarded to local contractors following local
competitive bidding procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. Feeder
roads construction would be supervised by the Roads Department; relocation
of the redrying plant to the new building, installation of electrical and
water fittings, and staff quarters at redrying plant would be supervised
by TDC; and other buildings required by the Agricultural Department would
be supervised by its Engineering Division and in accordance with proce-
dures, which were found at appraisal to be satisfactory to IDA.



-33-
4.07    Motor vehicles and motorcycles (US$ 0.09 M), equipment (US$ 0.21
M) would be grouped in appropriate bidding packages and procured by ICB in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would
receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15% or the import duty,
whichever is the lower. Where orders are valued at less than US$30,000
and totalling US$200,000, items would be procured under local competitive
bidding procedures, which where found at appraisal to be satisfactory to
IDA.
4.08    Assurances were obtained during negotiations that procurement
procedures set out above would be followed.
D. Disbursements and Audit
4.09    Disbursement under the credit would extend over five years and
would be against:
(a) Civil works - 80% of expenditures;
(b) Materials, equipment and vehicles - 100% of foreign expendi-
tures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) and 75% of
other local expenditures;
(c) Incremental operating costs - 58% of local expenditures;
(d) Training and technical services - 100%; and
(e)  Short and medium term subloans disbursed by ADBN - 90% of
local expenditures.
4.10    Disbursements for items (c) and (e) would be made against state-
ments of expenditure (SOE) for which supporting documentation would not
be submitted for review by IDA. The documentation for item (c) would be
retained by MOA at one location and would be made available for review of
IDAs representatives. Similarly the documentation for item (e) would be
retained at one location by ADBN and made available for review by IDAs
representatives. Disbursements against items (a), (b) and (d) would be
fully documented. Schedules for project implementation and disbursement
are presented in Annex 6, Tables 1 and 2.
4.11    The project would be subject to normal government financial con-
trol and audit procedures which are satisfactory. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that HMGN, within the framework of its own
financial system: (a) record all project expenditures under a separate
head of account in accordance with sound accounting practices; (b) furnish
to the Association as soon as available but not later than nine months



-34-
after the end of each fiscal year certified copies of financial statements
for the year and the report of such audit; (c) cause the records and
accounts to be audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion.
4.12    Under current practices financial statements are prepared by the
Fianancial Controller (who is a first class gazetted officer seconded by
the Accountant General's office) of the Ministry concerned. Financial
statements are reconciled quarterly and are the basis of an internal audit
carried out by the Accountant General's office, which then forwards these
statements to the Auditor General for purposes of external audit, An
audit report is then prepared by the Auditor General and after approval by
the National Panchayat will be made available to the Association.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Coordination
5.01    Overall responsibility for implementation of the project would be
with MOA and which would ensure coordination with other implementing
agencies - Ministry of Industry, Ministry of Commerce and Supplies, and
the Roads Department. To ensure proper coordination, a Project Coordina-
tion Committee (PCC) would be established. Chaired by the Secretary MOA,
and comprising the Secretaries of the Ministries of Industry, and Commerce
and Supplies and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the
National Planning Commission; Chief Engineer Roads Department, Managing
Director, Agricultural Development Bank; Managing Director, Agricultural
Inputs Corporation, Director General of Agriculture; and Chairmen of
Birganj Sugar Factory, Janakpur Cigarette Factory, Tobacco Development
Corporation, and Nepal Vanaspati Ghee Industries. A Joint Secretary of
MOA would act as member-secretary of the Committee and also function as
Project Coordinator. As different ministries will have exclusive respon-
sibility for implementing their respective programs, PCC would set up two
sub-committees, chaired respectively by a Joint Secretary, Ministry of
Industry (for sugarcane and tobacco) and the Director General of Agricul-
ture (for all other crops). The sub-committees would comprise senior
staff of those organizations having an input into project implementation.
An assurance was obtained during negotiations that the Project Coordina-
tion Committee and Sub-Committees would be established by January 31,
1983.



-35-
Project Implementation
5.02    The responsibility for different project actions is given below:
Department of Agriculture would have responsibility for sugarcane,
tobacco, and oilseeds research; intensive extension support for all crops
included in the project; and development and execution of seed programs.
Roads Department would have responsibility for all road construc-
tion and improvement activities and for the subsequent maintenance of
roads.
Agricultural Development Bank would be responsible for providing
short term credit for sugarcane, tobacco, sericulture, and oilseeds, and
medium term credit for tobacco barn improvement and sericulture.
Agricultural Input Corporation would have responsibility for
timely supply of inputs, especially fertilizer.
Birganj Sugar Factory would be responsible for coordinating credit
and input supply, efficient management of cane purchasing points, timely
payment to cane growers and cane seed production (with the assistance of
DOA).
Janakpur Cigarette Factory would maintain close linkages with
extension staff, TDC staff, and farmers to bring about qualitative
improvement in tobacco leaf.
Tobacco Development Company would be responsible for coordinating
credit and input supply to tobacco growers, efficient management of pur-
chase depots, timely payment to tobacco growers, and management of redry-
ing plant.
Nepal Vanaspati Ghee Industries would be responsible for purchase
of groundnut produced by farmers.
Evaluation and Program Analysis Division would be responsible for
the monitoring and evaluation of the project.
Food and Marketing Services Department would be responsible for
obtaining, collating and compiling, on an annual basis, relevant data on
areas under different cash crops, their yields and total production.



-36-
VI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND INCOMES
Cropping Patterns and Yields
6.01    Present Situation.  Of the twelve project districts, nine are in
the Terai and in which are grown the tobacco, sugarcane, and oilseeds
crops. These crops, either grown in the winter (mustard, tobacco) or year
round (sugarcane), all form part of a rotational farming system involving
food crops and an occassional green manure crop. Farms are generally
small (average 1.75 ha per family) and family operated but present yields
are low due to institutional impediments, including weak extension and
research services and inadequate access to credit, both medium and short
term. Of the three remaining project districts, two are located in the
Hills and one in the Kathmandu Valley. In the Hills agricultural produc-
tion is entirely subsistence oriented and cash crops are almost entirely
absent. The introduction of mulberry growing on land generally unsuited
to food crops, would help increase cash incomes of small farmers.
6.02    Project Development.  Under the project, improvements in applied
and adaptive research facilities to provide practical solutions to
farmers' problems, the transfer of extension services to DOA, the provi-
sion of improved seed and full production credit to farmers would substan-
tially increase per hectare yields and total production. In the case of
tobacco, the project would also lead to significant quality improvements.
6.03    In case of sugarcane, sericulture, and mustard, there would be no
project induced change in farmers' existing cropping patterns. Credit for
sugarcane and mustard would be for existing areas under the crops (no area
expansion); sericulture would be an additional activity for farmers in the
Hills. There would, however, be some change in the existing cropping
patterns of tobacco farmers. Due to restrictions imposed by TDC on
tobacco purchase, there has been a decline in the area under tobacco.
This would be partially restored under the project, leading to a reduction
in the areas cultivated to wheat, maize, and mustard.
6.04    The area of each crop to be grown under the project, for which
credit would be provided, and the estimated average present and projected
per hectare yields, are summarized below:



-37-
1   Future               Future
Present        Without Project |  With Project
Crop               Area  I Yield   | Area   I Yield        Area  | Yield
I (ha)  I (ton/ha)| (ha)   I (ton/ha)|  (ha)  I (ton/ha)
Sugarcane              l        l          l        l          l
Plant Crop           J 2,800 | 24        | 2,800 1 28       | 2,800 |  46
Ratoon               | 1,860    15      | 1,860    18       | 1,860 |  30
Tobacco                l
FCV                     1,250     0.60      1,250     0.70  | 1,900        1.0
Natu                      400 |  0.45  |   500 |  0.475          900       0.9
Mustard                | 4,800 I  0.30  | 4,800 |  0.30  J 4,800 |   0.5
Groundnut              l        l          |   _                   350   0.8
Silk Cocoons                - _      - _       - _            I   150 |   0.77
Cash Crop Production
6.05    Using the foregoing projections for different crops, the expected
annual incremental production at full development, and its value at
present farmgate prices, is shown below:
Value of
Future           Future      Incremental  Incremental
Crop           Without Project   With Project  Production   Production
---------------------(tons)----------------   (NRs.'000)
Sugarcane                   111,880        184,600        72,720        21,816
Tobacco - FCV                   875          1,900         1,025         13,581
- Natu                  238            810           572         5,606
Mustard                       1,440          2,400           960          3,840
Groundnut                       -              245           245          1,103
Fresh Cocoons                                   115          115          2,875



-38-
Marketing and Prices
6.06    Marketing.  No marketing problem is anticipated for the project s
incremental production. Sugarcane and Tobacco would be purchased by BSF
and JCF respectively. At present, silk cocoons are purchased by the DOA,
and reeled by the filature reeling unit established at Khopasil  Silk
fabric manufacturers, who are presently importing silk yarn, would also
purchase the cocoons produced under the project. The capacity of existing
oil mills in the project area is adequate to absorb the incremental
production of rape and mustard.
6.07    Prices,  Sugarcane and tobacco prices are fixed by HMGN (paras
1.11 and 1.33 respectively). BSF usually pays a higher price for sugar-
cane, and which is based on prices paid across the border in India. In
1981/82, farmers were paid NRs. 300/ton as against, in 1980/81, a payment
of NRs. 320/ton. Given past price fluctuations, an unchanged price of
NRs. 300/ton has been used for project farm income analysis. Present FCV
tobacco prices were fixed in 1979, while those for Natu were established
in 1974 (largely due to the fact that Natu has not been grown since 1979 -
para 1.22), Given past performance within the tobacco industry and
limited information, an unchanged price to growers has been assumed to
estimate farm incomes; for Natu tobacco, however, the prices have been
brought in line with FCV prices by applying the same rate of increase to
the 1974 prices, as has been applied to FCV in 1979 (see para 1.33).
Historical data on wholesale prices of all crops are not available, and
best estimates of prevailing farmgate prices have been used in the case of
other commodities. Financial prices used are summarized in Annex 4, Table 1.
Incremental Farm Incomes
6.08    Crop budgets and cash flows have been prepared to analyze the
effect of the project on the income of farmers. In case of those crops,
where the project does not lead to changes in farmers' cropping pattern,
only partial budgets have been prepared. As the introduction of groundnut
would lead to a reduction in the area under maize, a comparative analysis
has been done with maize. However, in all cases, the requirements for
hired labor have been estimated on the basis of average cropping patterns,
size of farms, availability of family labor, and peak labor requirements.
For tobacco, full farm budgets have been prepared. Details are given in
Annex 4, the results of which are summarized below.
6.09    Sugarcane.  Two basic models have been prepared to differentiate
between those farmers presently receiving minimal credit (75% of growers -
Model I), and those obtaining higher amounts of credit (25% of growers -



-39-
Model II). An average farm size of 2.0 ha has been assumed, of which 0.37
ha is planted to sugarcane. 1/ There are, however, two planting dates for
sugarcane (February and November) which are recommended by DOA, but which
give differing yields; those from November planting being somewhat higher.
Those differential yields have been reflected in each of the models.
Projected net cash inflows from sugarcane for the two models are shown in
Annex 4, Table 4. For the February plantings, these are summarized
below: 2/
Model I                Model II
a!    -
P7-    W       W         P      W      W
( ------------(NRs.)--
Net Cash Inflow from          1310   1612   2604       1515   1757  2604
Sugarcane
Management and Investment    825   1127   2034         1030   1272  2034
Income b/
a/ P = Present; W = Future Without Project; W = Future With Project.
b/ Return to the family for management and investment; for estimating the
latter, family labor has been valued at the market wage rate.
As a result of the project, farmers using minimal inputs at present can
expect an increase of over 60% in net cash inflow from sugarcane, while
those presently obtaining higher amounts of credit can expect an increase
of nearly 50%.
6.10    Tobacco.  Two farm budgets each for FCV and Natu production (Model
I for existing tobacco farmers and Model II for farmers reintroducing
tobacco into their cropping patterns) have been prepared. As barn owners
usually have larger size holdings, an average farm size of 5 ha has been
assumed for FCV growers and 3 ha for Natu growers. An average farm size
of 3 ha has been assumed in the case of those reintroducing tobacco into
1/ 0.22 ha of plant crop and 0.15 ha of ratoon.
2/ Due to higher yields obtained with November plantings, the incremental
effect on income is about 7% greater (see Annex 4, Table 4).



-40-
their cropping patterns. 1/ Full farm budgets have been prepared, based on
existing and projected cropping patterns. The results are shown in Annex
4, Table 4, and summarized below:
P          W          W
(NRs.)--
FCV
Model I  - Farm Family Net Benefit                 15,897      19,910    24,410
- Management and Investment Income        9,833      13,518    17,250
Model II - Farm Family Net Benefit                  7,805      10,594    12,785
- Management and Investment Income        5,317       7,826      9,273
NATU
Model I  - Farm Family Net Benefit                  8,459     11,078    12,194
Management and Investment Income        5,483       7,862      8,858
Model II - Farm Family Net Benefit                  7,805      10,594    12,133
Management and Investment Income        5,317       7,826     8,789
As can be seen from the above, net benefits to the farm family go up by
over 20% in the case of FCV farmers, and between 10-15% in the case of
Natu farmers.
6.11    Remodelled tobacco curing barns, financed by medium term credit to
farmers, would lead to 30% fuelwood savings, estimated at 3 tons of fuel-
wood per ton of cured tobacco (valued at NRs. 2,250 p.a. per barn of 3-ton
capacity). Based on estimated barn conversion costs of NRs. 5,000, Annex
4, Table 5 shows the net savings to the farmer. The financial rate of
return from the investment is estimated at over 40%.
6.12    Sericulture.  Two cash flows have been prepared, one for farmers
establishing a mulberry nursery and selling cuttings, and the other for
farmers establishing a mulberry garden and rearing silkworm . The size of
a nursery would be 0.2 ha and a mulberry garden 0.13 ha. In both
cases,the farmer would plant land not used for other crops. While only
short term production credit would be necessary for nursery operations,
medium term credit would be required for establishing mulberry gardens
1/ A larger farm size for FCV Model I has been used, as it is assumed
that generally the smaller farmers, not many of whom own barns, would
have discontinued growing tobacco.



-41-
and silkworm rearing. Details are shown in Annex 4, Table 6 and sum-
marized below:
Full
Year 1   Year 3   Year 5   Development
 -------------   (NRs.)---------------
Nursery Operations
Net Cash Inflow                          2,128    2,234    2,234       2,234
Management and Investment Income         1,648    1,754    1,754        1,754
Silkworm Rearing
Net Cash Inflow                            -         282       803      2,773
Management and Investment Income           -          -        475     2,445
The financial rate of return for mulberry cultivation and silkworm rearing
is estimated at 39%.
6.13    Oilseeds.  While the project would generate an increase in yields
on existing rape and mustard areas, introduction of groundnut would lead
to a corresponding decline in the area under maize. Per hectare cash
flows for mustard, groundnut, and maize are shown on Annex 4, Table 4,
summarized below:
P         W          W
-----    (NRs.)----------
Per hectare net cash inflow from mustard            1,085      1,085      1,473
Management and Investment Income                      829        829      1,217
Per hectare net cash inflow from groundnuts           -          -       2,721
Management and Investment Income                      -          -        2,401
Per hectare net cash inflow from maize                -          -        2,211
Management and Investment Income                      -          -        1,451
As can be seen the farmer can expect approximately 23% more cash income
from groundnuts as compared with maize. Furthermore, due to the lower
labor requirements in groundnut production the farm family's return for
management and investment is much higher (NRs. 2,401) as compared to maize
(NRs. 1,451).



-42-
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
General
7.01    The principal benefit generated by the project would be the
increased production of cash crops in Nepal (see para 6.05). Additional
project benefits would be generated from: (a) upgrading the existing
storage and redrying facilities for tobacco, thereby reducing storage and
other losses; and (b) saving of fuel through the remodelling of tobacco
curing barns. The upgrading of existing feeder roads, and the development
of new feeder roads in the sugarcane areas, besides improving the recovery
rate from cane, should also have a favorable impact on the areas' develop-
ment. An important benefit would be the promotion of the cash economy
which can be expected to have a multiplier effect on the rural economy in
the project area as a whole.
Employment Benefits
7.02    Credit made available under the project would lead to substan-
tially increased labor utilization, through the use of better agronomic
practices. Labor requirements for the cash crops under the project are
estimated to rise from about 1.5 million mandays at present to about 3.0
million mandays at full development, leading to an increase in total farm
labor utilization from its present low levels. In addition, the project
would generate about 1.0 million mandays of construction employment over
the project life.
Income Distribution Effect
7.03    Based on the farm size distribution in the project districts, over
50% of the beneficiaries would have holdings of upto 1 ha and are in the
lowest income groups, and around 30% between 1-3 ha. Increased incomes
under the project would benefit mostly the small holders, who are in the
lowest income group, and whose incomes are inadequate to meet basic
calorific requirements. The project would improve the income and consump-
tion levels of about 37,150 families - 13,000 cane growers, 3,000 tobacco
growers, 20,000 oilseeds growers, and 1,150 mulberry farmers.
Impact on Balance of Payments
7.04    At projected economic prices, the incremental production from the
project would, at full development, result in foreign exchange savings
estimated at over US$4.0 M per annum.



-43-
Intangible Benefits
7.05    The proposed road development in Bara and Parsa districts would
provide an impetus to the future development of the area. Better com-
munication would lead to more investment, as well as better and more
reliable input supply and marketing channels for all crops, thereby having
a favorable impact on overall agricultural production in the area. The
project would also provide some training, thereby alleviating to some
extent a major constraint to development in Nepal, i.e. the shortage of
trained staff.
Economic Evaluation
7.06    For sugarcane, tobacco, and oilseeds, a large part of the com-
ponents' total costs are represented by incremental seasonal credit being
provided under the project. The area covered under the project in each of
the project years for sugarcane and tobacco is shown in Annex 3, Tables
2(c) and 3(b) respectively. All farmers presently growing these crops in
the project districts would obtain production credit from project year
one. In the case of tobacco, along with an increase in area planted to,
there would be an increase in the number of participating farmers. For
oilseeds, there would be a phased increase in the area covered by credit
each year [Annex 3, Table 5(a)]. Given the early benefits that accrue
from seasonal credit, for sugarcane and oilseeds, annual incremental
benefits for all years exceed annual incremental costs; for tobacco, the
cost and benefit streams result in relatively small net incremental costs
in the first two years of the project. Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for
sugarcane, tobacco and oilseeds has been calculted by reducing the time
interval to reflect the lag between expenditures and returns within the
cropping season. ERR have been calculated for sericulture development,
which is a long gestation activity, and for the proposed investment on
remodelling of tobacco curing barns, and the relocation of the tobacco
redrying plant. ERR for the total project is 62%.
7.07    Net present values (NPV), at a discount rate of 12%, of net
incremental benefit streams from the project have been calculated. The
economic cost and benefit streams for the total project are given at Annex
5, Table 2.
7.08    The table below summarizes the results of the analysis carried
out, based on economic prices shown on Annex 4, Table 1 and the assump-
tions set out in Annex 5.



-44-
N P V a/            E R R
(NRs. M)            7(X
Total Project                                182                 62
Sugarcane                                     86                 64
Tobacco                                       69                 60
Sericulture                                    9                 31
Oilseeds                                      18               >100
Subcomponent
Tobacco Redrying Plant                         2                 27
Tobacco Barn Conversion                        2               >100
a/ At a discount rate of 12%.
7.09    Project Risks.  The performances of public sector enterprises in
Nepal has not been satisfactory. Of the three public sector units
involved in the project, the BSF and JCF are performing well; TDC,
however, is incurring heavy losses due to management problems. Under the
project, the research and extension responsibilities of TDC are being
transferred to DOA and financial management problems are being resolved
prior to negotiations. In an extreme situation arising out of the aboli-
tion of TDC, the tobacco industry would not suffer as the processing
industry would take over the role of TDC - standing guarantee for ADBN
credit and buying tobacco from farmers and operating of redrying plant.
As such there is no major risk to the success of the project.
7.10   Other risks are minimal.  The project districts would have an
intensive extension coverage and farmers past responsiveness to technical
recommendations is encouraging. Furthermore, the reformed extension
service now has the ability to develop and disseminate recommendations
leading to yield increases needed for the project to be viable. Ini-
tially, in most situations, availability of a suitable technology for
different conditions will not be a constraint as there is a backlog of
technology as yet not adopted. The best farmers in the project area have
already obtained yields anticipated under the project. Major increases
are, therefore, possible even in the process of bringing the production
level of average farmers up to that of the best farmers. The project
would have no adverse environmental effects.



-45-
7.11    Sensitivity Analysis.  To test the sensitivity of the above
project components to possible changes in costs and benefits, switching
values, I/ at a discount rate of 12%, were calculated for key variables.
The results are summarized below:
Appraisal Value      Switching Value       % Change
Sugarcane
Yields/ha                          47 tons             36 tons             -23
Tobacco
Yields/ha - Flue-Cured          1,000 kgs            650 kgs               -35
Sericulture
Price of Cocoons                NRs. 42/kg          NRs. 20/kg             -52
Redrying Plant
Savings in Tobacco Losses         4% of total         2.6%                 -34
production
7.12    The sugarcane component shows moderate sensitivity to possible
yield changes. However, total costs used for the analysis,include the
total road development costs without taking into account other
non-quantifable benefits that would accrue from such an investment. For
all other variables, the analysis revealed that the components are not
sensitive to changes in their values.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01    The following conditions were met by His Majesty's Government of
Nepal before Credit negotiations:
(a) Took formal decision regarding transfer of responsibility
for provision of extension support and advice to sugarcane
growers from BSF to DOA (para 3.05);
1/ Switching value is defined as that value which, at the given discount
rate, reduces NPV to zero or the benefit cost ratio to 1.



-46-
(b)  Took formal decision regarding transfer of (i) Belachapi
Tobacco Research Station from TDC to DOA and bring it within
the mainstream of agricultural research in Nepal (para 3411),
and (ii) responsibility for provision of extension support
and advice to tobacco growers from TDC to DOA (para 3.13);
(c) Decided to review the pricing policy of tobacco sales by TDC
to JCF and to agree with the Association, on a policy for
establishing the price paid to tobacco growers (para 3.19);
and
(d)  Completed the proposed study of TDC's financial situation and
appointed Chairman JCF as head of both TDC and JCF (para
3.22).
8.02    During negotiations, assurances were obtained from His Majesty's
Government of Nepal on the following matters:
(a)  HMGN would present to the Association by January 15, 1983
official letters authorizing the transfer of responsibility
for sugarcane extension to DOA (para 3.05);
(b) The Roads Department would continue to maintain the feeder
roads constructed under the project (para 3.09);
(c)  HMGN would present to the Association by January 15, 1983
official letters authorizing the transfer of responsibility
for (i) tobacco research to DOA (para 3.11), and (ii) tobacco
extension to DOA (para 3.13);
(d) The tobacco curers and Tobacco Production Specialist would be
in position by December 1, 1983 and June 30, 1983 respec-
tively, and thereafter start work on the same dates in each
of the following project years (para 3.18);
(e)  HMGN would constitute a Tobacco Pricing Policy Committee by
January 15, 1983 and formulate a pricing policy which would
be provided to the Association for review by February 15,
1983 (para 3.19);
(f) HMGN would appoint a high level committee for recommending
the price to be paid to farmers for different grades of
tobacco and the price at which tobacco should be sold to JCF
and cause the Committee to hold its first meeting before
February 28, 1983 (para 3.20);
(g) A trained Assistant Sericultural Entomologist would be posted
to the Walling subcenter by June 30, 1983 (para 3.25);



-47-
(h) NVGI would purchase all suitable groundnut seed produced by
farmers and ensure its further distribution to growers (para
3.31);
(i) An area of 3 ha of land would be made available for ginger
research at the Pokhara Horticultural Station; and the ginger
market study and a report on ginger drying units would be
completed by December 31, 1984 and furnished to IDA (para
3.33);
(j)  FAMSD would start collecting data (area, yields and total
production) on cash crops in the project districts (para
3.35);
(k) HMGN would (i) make adequate and timely budgetory provisions
for the implementation of the project, (ii) cause ADBN to
maintain the amount of credit for cash crop production in the
project area at a level not less than that in effect as of
the date of this agreement, and (iii) make available to ADBN
upto US$2.43 M (NRs. 32.11 M) equivalent under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between HMGN and ADBN which
shall establish procedures and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (para 4.04);
(1) HMGN would follow the procurement procedures set out in paras
4.05 to 4.07 (para 4.08);
(m)  HMGN would maintain separate accounts of the project and
prepare and present to IDA administrative and financial data
regarding progress of the project, including procurement of
goods and services, civil works, expenditure, audit and
requests for disbursements in accordance with the time
schedule to be agreed to at negotiations (para 4.11); and
(n) HMGN would establish the Project Coordination Committee and
two Sub-Committees bv January 31, 1983 (para 5.01).
8.03    With these conditions and assurances, the project would be
suitable for a credit of US$ 6.0 M to HMGN on standard IDA terms.



NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FACTORY WORKING DAYS AND CANE CRUSHED
Birganj Sugar Factory             Morang Sugar Factory              Mahendra Sugar Factory
Year       Working Days   Cane Crushed        Working Days   Cane Crushed        Working Days   Cane Crushed
MT'O0O                            MT'000                             MT'O00
1970/71           180            116.70              140             35.06               NA              NA
1971/72            68             46.02               60             15.08             106              26.33
1972/73            86             71.21               78             19.40              122             32.90
1973/74           119             89.88              152             37.95             130              40.07
1974/75            92             67.31               81             20.36              140             49.27
1975/76            59             47.65               77             19.20              150             53.73
1976/77            88             93.80               81             20.33             161              69.27
1977/78           153            181.34              141             37.22             180              75.00
1978/79           171            179.42              182             45.57             160              27.05
1979/80            88             97.86              NA              27.45             140              38.34
1980/81            78             72.56              NA               NA                NA               NA
1981/82           131            134.75               NA              NA                NA               NA
Source:  APROSC preparation report.



NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUGARCANE:  PROCUREMENT PRICE              NRs./Quintal
Government Minimum                      Prices paid by sugar factories
Year           Support Price            Birganj Factory        Morang Factory       Mahendra Factory
1970-71               12.0                     13.5                  13.4                    13.5
1971-72               12.0                     13.5                  12.0                    13.5
1972-73               12.0                     14.5                  15.0                    14.0
1973-74               12.0                     15.5                  18.0                    14.0
1974-75               17.0                     19.0                  17.0                    17.0
1975-76               23.0                     24.0                  23.0                    23.0
1976-77               23.0                     26.0                  23.0                    23.0
1977-78               23.0                     26.0                  23.0                    23.0
1978-79               19.0                     19.0                  18.0                    19.0
1979/80               NA                       21.0                  NA                      NA
1980-81               28.0                     32.0                  NA                      NA
1981-82               28.0                     30.0                  NA                      NA               .
Source: APROSC preparation report.



ANNEX I
Attachment 1
-50-                             Page 1
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Position of the Tobacco Development Company
The present financial position of the Tobacco Development Company
(TDC) is unsatisfactory. Table 1 shows the Profit and Loss accounts and
Table 2 the Balance sheets of the company for the last six years. The
salient features are summarized below (in NRs. million):
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981 a/  1982 b/
Profit and Loss Account
Turnover                      53.4    43.4    33.0    22.2    20.4         17.0
Operating Loss                (1.1)   (1.9)   (1.9)   (2.8)   (5.3)        (5.7)
Net Profit/(Loss)              1.2      0.6      1.3    (2.3)   (2.8)    (3.3)
Balance Sheet
Current Assets Less
Current Liabilities         3.1      6.3      7.9      3.8    (0.6)      (5.1)
Net Fixed Assets               1.0      1.7     1.8      3.5      5.2       6.4
Equity & Reserves              3.6     7.5      8.8      6.4      3.6       0.4
Ratios
Operating Loss as a
% of Turnover               (2.1)   (4.4)   (5.8)  (12.6)  (26.0)   (33.5)
Net Profit/(Loss) as
a % of Turnover             2.2      1.4      3.9   (10.4)  (13.7)   (19.4)
Current Assets: Current
Liabilities                  1.37    3.85    2.03    2.17    0.98         0.86
a/ Unaudited, draft accounts.
b/ Mission projections.
The TDC has not made an operating profit, with net profits prior
to 1980 being wholly due to the Export Incentive Bonus it was receiving. 1/
1/ With effect from 1982/83, Government is discontinuing the payment of
an Export Incentive Bonus.



-51--                           ANNEX 1
Attachment 1
Page 2
The losses incurred in the last three years, have eroded virtually the
entire equity base of the Company. At present, current liabilities exceed
current assets. The principal factors which have contributed to the poor
financial position of TDC are as follows:
(a) The price at which tobacco is sold, both to the Janakpur
Cigarette Factory (JCF) and for export, does not provide an
adequate margin to cover TDC's overheads. An approximate
analysis of the company's operations for the past three years
(1978/79-1980/81) reveals that operating losses on sales to
JCF were between NRs. 1-2 per kg., while on exports they were
between NRs. 3-8 per kg. (the large spread is due to sig-
nificant movements in exchange rates). 1/
(b) From 1980/81 JCF discontinued the purchase of domestically
produced tobacco from TDC, due to the poor quality of tobacco
produced, and the accumulation of stocks of undesirable
tobacco with JCF. In line with this decision, JCF stopped
providing interest free finance to TDC for the purchase of
tobacco from farmers, to which TDC were committed. This led
to TDC having to borrow money commercially, and bear heavy
interest charges in 1980/81 and 1981/82.
(c) Excessive administration costs have also contributed to TDC's
poor financial situation. Inspite of an average annual
decline of 25% in turnover, administration costs have
increased at an average annual rate of 21% over the last five
years.
Future projections of TDC's financial accounts have not been
prepared, as, in view of the above situation, these would not be
appropriate.
1/ Export prices have been fixed in sterling, which in the last few years
has depreciated against the US dollar, to which the value of the
Nepalese Rupee is pegged.



-52-                                             ANNEX I
Attachment I
Table 1
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TOBACCO DEVELOPMENT COMPANY - BALANCE SHEET AS AT 15 JULY
(cNKs. 000)
1977         1978         1979         1980          1981 1/      1982 2/
ASSETS
Fixed Assets                                 961        1,650        1,828        3,527         5,201        6,422
Investments                                 -             -            -            -               5            3
Current Assets
Inventories                                  120           91          121       12,435       21,120        16,466 3/
Debtors-JCF                              10,336        12,259        4,585       13,448        13,716          -
-Others                              105          521        1,088           746          799          900
Cash & Bank Balance                         901           847        9,747          182        2,228        13,34:3 4/
Total Current Assets                  11,462       13,718        15,541       26,811       37,863       30,709,
TOTAL ASSETS                             12,423        15,368       17,369       30,338       43,069        37,136
EQUITY & LIABILITIES
Equity & Reserves
Paid in Capital                           2,700         5,700        5,700        5,700        5,700         5,700
General Reserves                            435           863        1,941         (407)      (3,173)       (6,431)
Exchange Fluctuation Fund                   500           700          900          900           900          900
Grant                                       -             221          221          221           221          221
Total Equity & Reserves                3,635        7,484        8,762         6,414        3,648          390
Provisions
Employees Welfare Fund                      300           327          683          683          691           691
Employees Gratuity Fund                      150          150          273          273          232           232
Total Provisions                         450          477           956          956          923          923
Current Liabilities
Income Tax                                2,055         1,013        1,825          417          417           417
Bonus Payable                               415           488          160          160           160          160
ADBN, re: Farmers' Loans Recovered        3,396        3,102         2,405        8,244        5,442        4,575
Due to Farmers                                                       2,231       12,733        5,074        3,300
Due to JCF                                                             -            132       24,014       23,000
ADBN                                      2,472 5/    2,804 5/         -            531        1,831         1,971
Rashtriya Banijya Bank                                                 -            -            966         1,500
Others                                                               1,030          751          594           900
Total Current Liabilities              8,338        7,407        7,651       22,968        38,498       35,823
TOTAL EQUITY & LIABILTIES                12,423       15,368        17,369       30,338       43,069       37,136
1/  Draft accounts, not audited.
2/ Mission projections.
3/ Stock of approximately 1,300 tons of tobacco and some packing material.
4/  Includes monies still due from export sales.
3/  Details not available.
Source: Tobacco Development Company.



-53-                                       ANNEX 1
Attachment I
Table 2
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TOBACCO DEVELOPMENT COMPANY - PROFIT & LOSS ACCOUNT, YEAR ENDING 15 JULY
(NRS.' 000)
1977         1978         1979         1980          1981 /1      1982 /2
OPERATING REVENUES
Domestic Sales                        43,041       33,340        17,476       22,021        4,373           -
Export Sales                           9,917         9,688       15,402          -          16,019       17,031
Commission from JCF                      422           322          133          218            39          -
Total                              53,380       43,350       33,011        22,239       20,431       17,031
OPERATING COSTS
Purchase of Tobacco                   52,590       42,969        31,827       21,879       18,793        14,254
Export Expenditure                       897           993        1,493          394        1,407         2,050
Interest on Loans                        -             -            -            531        3,039        3,600
Administration Costs                     953         1,090        1,350        2,004        2,239         2,500
-Depreciation                              61          188           212          231          270          330
Total                              54,501       45,240       34,882       25,039        25,748       22,734
OPERATING LOSS                        (1,121)      (1,890)       (1,871)      (2,800)      (5,317)       (5,703)
OTHER INCOME & EXPENSES
Export Bonus                        4,274        2,352        5,045           -          2,582        2,473
Service Charge on Farmers           1,145          925          496           658          338          240
Sundry Income                          23          166           133          234           55          177
Less:  Research Expenditure           171          194           588          440          424          445
Employees Welfare Fund        300            27           64          -            -             -
Gratuity Fund                 150           -            100          -            -
Bonus Provision               415            73          160          -            -            -
Total                               4,406        3,150        4,762           452        2,551        2,445
GROSS PROFIT/(LOSS)                    3,285         1,260        2,891       (2,348)      (2,766)       (3,258)
INCOME TAX                             2,055          632         1,613          -            -
NET PROFIT/(LOSS)                      1,230           628        1,278       (2,348)      (2,766)      (3,258)
APPROPRIATION OF NET PROFIT
Exchange Fluctuation Fund             500          200           200
General Reserve                       730          428        1,078        (2,348)      (2,766)      (3,258)
1/ Draft accounts, not audited.
2/ Mission projections.
Source: Tobacco Development Company.



NEPAL
CASH CROP PROJECT
CONTRIBUTION OF CASH CROPS TO
GDP - EXPORTS - IMPORTS
Million NRs.
1976/77                         1977/78                         1978/79
Agri. GDP   Exports   Imports   Agri. GDP   Exports   Imports   Agri. GDP   Exports   Imports
Total           10,506.00   1,117.69  1,950.95   11,752.00  1,125.94   2,858.40         NA      1,400.15   3,047.75
Potato 1/          492.77        1.53     NA          482.71      3.30        0.30      NA           0.75       3.47
Oilseeds           154.06      53.62      NA          260.09     27.02        8.73      NA          21.37       4.43
Jute               117.44     159.77                  201.90    229.94         -        NA        303.27          -
Tobacco 2/          43.72       9.19      NA           NA        11.46        22.74    NA           12.82      10.14
Tea                  8.26        1.15     NA           10.23      0.90        10.89    NA            0.65      10.62
Ginger              46.73      10.59      NA           NA        10.49          -       NA           4.58         -
Cane & Cane         76.24        -        NA           82.76      0.04         0.32    NA            0.04       6.03
Products
1/ Potato and potato seed.
2/ Virginia tobacco, Durley tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, etc.
Source:  APROSC Preparation Report.
I'3



-55-
NEPAL                                              AN    3
CASH CROP DEVELDPMENT PRDJECT                                    Table  1
Sumars Account bs Time
(N.Rs. '000)
Base Costs
+ Price
Base Costs                        Cnt. orn  Foreign Excharge
------------------------------------------------ Base Costs ----------------
1983     1984     1985      198,     1997    T3tai   1US$ '000)    T       Asount
1. INVESTNENT COSTi
A. CIVIL WORKS                                                     685.0  6,512.5 11.500,0 10,434.0          - 29,131.5    2,712.9    41.7 12,153,0
PhYsical Contingencies                                          102.8  1,186.9  2,140,0  1,982.6          -  5,412.2           -    41,4  2,239.9
Price Citirtheicies                                              35.4  1028,6  3,019.1  3.846.4          -  7,929^7           -    41.4  3,281.4
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                  823.2  8,728.3  16.659.1 16,263.0         - 42,473.3    2,7129    41.6 17,674,3
Foreion ETchanse                                                384.0  3,739,7  6,888.4  6,662.2          - 17, 34,3           -     0.0      0.0
B. VEHICLES                                                            -  1,110.0         -         -        -  1,110.0        95.3   100.0  1,110,0
Price Continsencies                                                 -    148.3         -         -        -    148.3           -   100.0    148.3
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                      -  1,258., 1258.3                                       95.3   100.0  1,25803
Foreisn E!chanse                                                    -  i,258.3         -         -        -  1,258,3           -     0.0       0.0
C. ECUIPMENT                                                        63.0  1,856,0    382.0       B2.0        -  2,383.0       207.9    84.0  2,000,7
Price Contingencies                                               2.8    248,0      84,6     25.4         -    3108           -    83.7    301.8
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                   65.8  2,104.0    466.6    107.4          -  2,743,8       207.9    83.9  2,302,5
Foreian E-chanse                                                 35.7  1,824.2    350.4      92,2         -  2,302.5           -     0.0      0 0
!, CREDlT                                                        5,950.0  6,218.9  6,377,3  6,277.2  7,291,6 32,115.0    2,988.5        0.0       0.0
Trace Continoencies                                             267,7    830,8  1,411,6  1,944.6  2.878.0  7,332.?             -     0.0      0,0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                6,217.8  7,049,7  7.788.9  8,221.8 10,169.6 39,447.7    2,988.5        0.0       0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                              6.698.0 15,697.4 1B,259.3 16,79312  7,291.6 64,739.5    6,004.5    23.6 15,263.7
Physical Contingencies                                             102.0  1,186.9  2,140,0  1,982,6          -  5,412.2           -    41.4  2,239.9
Price Continaencies                                                306.0  2,255.7  4,515.3  5,.816,4  2,078.0 15.771.4            -    23.?  3,731.5
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                       7,106.8 19,140.0 24,914.6 24,592.1 10,169.6 85,923.1    6,004.5    24.7 21,235.1
Foreign Exchanse                                                   419.7  6,S22.2  7,238.8  6,754.4          - 21,235.1           -     0.0      0.0
'I. OPERATING CLSTS
A. SALARIES                                                       471.1    471,1    471,1    471,1    471.1  2.355.5         217,9     0.0      0.0
,,ice Continsences                                             21.2     62.9    104.3    145,9   lB5.9    520.3              -     0.0      0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                 492.3    534.0    575.4    617,0    657,0  2,875.8         217.9     0.0       0.0
P. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                                      100.5    444.8    599.0    882.7  1,216,7  3,251.7         318.4    29.0    943.5
Phosical Continsencies                                           0.4       4.4     38.13    62.9      96.8    202.7           -    64.3    130.4
Price CEntinaencies                                              4.9      60.0    141.0    292.9    518.4  1,017.3            -    34.7    353.5
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                 113.8    509.2    778.3  1,238.6  1,831.9  4,471,7         318.4    31.9  1,427.3
Foreign Exchange                                                 2.3     24.0    253,1    432.7    714,4  1,427.3             -     0.0      0.0
C. FARMER TRAINING                                                  0.5       2.0      2.5       3.0      4.5     12.5         1.2     0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                                              0.0       0.3      0.6      0.9       1.8      3.5           -     0.0      0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                  05        2.3      3.1       3.9      6.3     16.0         1.2     0.0      0.0
D, STAFF TRAINING                                                 150.5    340.5    340.8    360.8    360.8  1,553.3         146.6    79.8  1,240.0
Price Costaoraenoces                                             6.0     45.5      75.4    1113.     142,4    381,8           -    79.8    304.8
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                 157.3    386.0    416.2    472,5    503.1  1,935.1         146.6    79.8  1,544.8
Foreion E.chaoae                                               125.4    308.3    332.2    377.2    401.7  1,544.0             -     0.0      0.0
E. TECHNICAL SERVICES                                             100.0    100.0    100.0          -        -    300.0        25.8     0.0      0,0
Price Contingencies                                              4.5     13,4      22.1        -         -     40.0           -     0.0      0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                 104.5    113.4    122.1          -        -    340.0        25.0     0.0      0.0
F. NONITaRING AND EV,ALUATION STUDIES                              25.0    150.0    275.0    375,0    375,0  1,200.0         117.1     0.0      0.0
Price Continoencies                                              1.1     20.0      60.9    116.2    148.0    346.2            -     010      0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                  26.1    170,0    335.9    491.2    523.0  1,546.2         117.1     0.0      0.0
Total OPERATING COSTS                                                 055.6  1,508,4  1,788,3  2,092.6  2,428.1  8,673.0         826,9    25.2  2,183.5
Phbsical Contingencies                                               0.4       4.4     38.3     62.9      96.8    202.7           -    64.3    130.4
Price Contingencies                                                 38.5    202,1    404.3    667,7    996,5  2,309,?             -    28.5    658.3
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                         894.5  1,714.9  2,230.9  2,823.2  3,521.4 11,184.8         826.9    2b.6  2,9;2.2
Foreign Exchanse                                                   127.7    332.3    586.1    809.9  1,116.1  2.972.2             -     0.0      0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                 7,553.6 17,2058 20,047.6 18,885.8  9,719,7 73,412.5    6,031.5    23.8 17,447.2
Physical Continoencies                                              103.2  1,191.2  2,178.3  2,045.4       96.8  5,614.9           -    42.2  2,370,3
Price Contsinencies                                                 344.6  2,457.8  4,919.6  6.484.1  3,874.5 18-080,6             -    24.3  4,389,8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                  8,001.3 20,854.9 27,145.5 27,415,4 13,690.9 97,107.9    6,831.5    24.9 24,207.3
o====== ====o=== ======== ======== =oha  =54.   =7= === =54 3  320.   0.=0= ==== ====0====
Forei.gn Exchansge                                                  547.4  7,154.5  7PR24.9  7f564.3  116124,207.3                 -     01.0     0.0






NEEPAL
09h C90" DE04UEL3NE' PhOJEIT
'able 2. SU9ARCd04   DEVE OPMENT
nctol_ d CoTs Table
(N Rs. '000)
Ouctotat                                                  base Costo
Uot    1993   1981   1955  1906  1997 Tctal  Loot Cast  1993   I094             0995     0946    0997    Total
I. 040ESTME0T COSTS
A. Cl'JIL i03rs
E.st, PItVIc A Or-toia
of oocto,g -oats  a                                -       -             -    -       -                   - 0,200.0  4.200,': 3.094.3 -410.5"'.0
Conotrostoor of sow occos /b               M..         -      :       2      2    -       5                  -,090  .-00090  2,0000  2,.000.0
Lao,sstc Bsodaeoot -c ~                                              -         -                          -     -     -     -  --0,00,0   5 -.0    --5-5.-0-0
.o-'ot;:   -oa         - Deuelr cnt                                                                             - 4900.0  8.300.0  Io'49.0              20,949,.
2. 9cscsoc  stsoo: J- h   ot-
.OsOrats-h Ouo 009tt4
000 aos.                              U mot        -    U.2    0.4   0.4    -         1      1250         -   250).   50.O    295.0           - ,250,0
HDc :ns ) a or Btot,an.t
(7n sc,*,)                            oUmt        0-       .    Ct-  0.4    -                   15             35.0      'u.t      0,0         -    .75.0
,45  c.,.) O                           m,t               2.2    0 .4  0.4                    00I  2       -    22,B  95     0 45.0                  112.5
S Tb-otal (c-oarch Stat,,,: Jots-,                                                                                   307.5    005.0       lS.O       -  1.537.5
3. S boct datter SscraO-t
YOc                                    toJt        -    0,2    0,4   0,4              1       75        -    35.0      70.0      0,0.        -    175.0
4, ost  rod tl   onFar-: S-o a,
Fort, af o Et d Polodttr,, Area            c.      1.000  1.500  0,300  BAr       -  4,tOO      0.275      O      0025      07.5      60,0        -    345.0
lor^Dvlns  Or Iissatiott tcstoc                 -                                            5.0    05,2                            -     2D.0
oj ,-,dtol   PSseed   t-  ta) 0A    * 3-   d                                                                 30.0 0   27.5    t775       6t,0        -    3b5.0
StO-Total 00CIVIL WOK3                                                                                           BO.O 4,70.D  9.082.5  9,094.0             -52o.'
A. 0E0UPEFhT A0E FURNITURE
0, Rtao Static,  Jot..os
-tOJ-t -rasn Ocetc   /o                                               -                   -               00,0    00,)1         -                       95,0
La9,satc O    . dss       Lc t -t-                     -          -      -            -            -            .00.0         0.                  -      .0
Fortiturbopottrandottaas                               -      -       -      -       -    -                  -   !00.t    700.0          - -      -     00.0
S.O-OT,a   Acerh sctoot-   Jt-,                                                                               77,0   200,1    070.0          -              97.0
F-rmturc  4I e--ot                                            -      -            -       -                  -.0      -                                   2,7
Sub Itta (00E01P T 9hD lURNITURE                                                                                9l,2  'I0.0        lOt          -        -    399.0
C. dE0IC.ES
1. Rcacoroh Stott-tI Jltoo'
FaiN-us 0cc /D                             Nc,         -      I       -     -    -        .       oao        -   080,0          -        -        -  .0....
'al-Iota) rcscl os                         ND.)              - !tt-               -       '        30               0 -    30.0  -       -        -      30.01
(otarotols.                                N, .-               0             -    -       0         TO       -  -000            -        -               0-- 0.9
Stb-Total VEHCLES                                                                                                       360.D         -                       300.0
D. CREDIT
Short Tcr,  C edot                                                                                                4 -  -  -  l,00.9 0,405.4  2,990.6  2,096.4 41,71.3 014,53.5
Trotl IN0ESTMENT CO2TS                                                                                           2,9'1.8 9,725.4 12,251.1 00,492.4 1,7810.  300202,0
01. OPER0TING C001S
A. SALAR:ES
1, Rraah sttatt.cs J7 t-
S amanst 6radeU      a ''9g-            )aft aor      0      1       1      1    1       0         07    17.0    (7.C       07.0     170 D    0170     D5.0
Plant 'atsoltas:o
3rDt-    lr:a:                     Otato gar       0 I    I       I     I 0   I 0              .7    .7.0    17.0       07.0      17,0    17.0      00.0
aoaor      5[                          9-stt STacoser  1      0      1     1    01       5        10 0            I0.2     107,    0 172      O7,0     05,1
Ott-Idol 00000091                                                                                   o0,t    0J.2.fl-1 I  5lo~  0.0  p 0.0   0    00.0
S,tlDa  Rese I I...      on  Jlt>! j" ,4.C    44.0                                                                             44.0     44.0    14.0    C20,c
2. cteas., Satteras       "Iast
-tt --   ve ---   s --------------                                                                                                    3D        .D     ~  .
atsrat'r OPel.cttsCs  h-                                                                                    -      0,       0.0       S.0      1.0      18.0
.aoor soortorortoalcso                                -      -                                                              0.-  -6  .  .        .0  9.0  00.6
OeF-,Oe Oeertolas CDf- /1                                    -       -     -                                         - 1    50D      15,0    :5.0      55.0
tao-Octal 7searcth SOot,,,)  oltoor                                                                         '.D       0.0     32.0      24.0    20.0       65.1
2. R-b-oo: rotar 5jaoia.:ot-
Tr  cst-cl /                                                -       -     -                                       3.0     300        30   3.0 00     10.
90,oe  ooaooLC:t                                                                                                      06h       I         AI      0.
IBO-)atao  Ottae t r aterl    [socta(lts                                                                      -       ,9        0  0.0           0.0      .7.6
0. Cttg Scot Fr,oootoar
It1 tceo.  [a Cas-  70159.                                                                                           02,       T'C0   079.0       045.0
[O Total 099000   092 ." J40  ."990                                                                          ,.     07.0    02.0    000.0   4.4.0    97t.0
T           "tsJ OFEAIINHO 00000                                                                                    00,0   .20.0    053.0    17.D0   075.0  0,290.0
====== ------- -------- ======.= ------ --------
Istal 0S91 9 - 00                                                                                                 0.00I,01,19.4-.504Ol  0,90.            2.  7 0.0
7a  Sac 4nr- J 0,  0ablo '(dl.
(0 Soo Otoc, 0, Istlo 2r)0)
/ac SOtto.g: 0, Tholo 2(a),
7d  Setd rsoiot;otsarc, [ocro)at( a d o  Lo[art'aoltora   all 07 o-oc
;0407,090 aeed L dsr thc dosactlos,a 3totortooo totoa,o  Ba2a,   tur
(a  tlaushtost. hDo teroJostcsreco,oornt, casDe O,J,fetc,
S0 LsOt   OtPeb           A        T 3                                                                                2labl  4).
70  FDc tranoeart  tatuarcanoecssdcate,oa).
/hntro. tOtr teas.
To, 00,12F0  soser  gcasr9,, oo)F ur asoorosO  Ps,0,0   'or cootocscjs
252 00 secotnd 0407.
79,oot.Fr        oooetsescsecsoaoo3.  00seortos oe
5006snt,e od.o ssoO ,rT)-seoda-e7sa5tTot R;.03 0 9')rtT,rt a            .73~ve
tO.0 NlIn o toOh orar.






ANNEX 3
Table 2(a)
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sugarcane Research Station : Jitpur
Laboratory Equipment
Item                          Number                 Cost
NRs.
Microscope (Research)                     1                   40,000
Microscope Illuminator                    1                    2,000
Anaytical Balance                         1                   45,000
Platform Balance                          1                   10,000
Field Scale                               1                    2,000
Refrigerator                              1                   20,000
Oven                                                           4,000
P H Meter                                 1                   10,000
Demineralizor                             1                    6,500
Calculator                                1                    6,000
Meteorological Equipment                  1                   20,000
Soil Test Kit                             1                    7,000
Hand Refractometer                        1                    1,000
Typewriter                                1                   14,000
Glassware, accessories, etc.              1                   12,500
200,000



-58-                                   ANNEX 3
Table 2(b)
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUGARCANE DEVELOPMENT
IMPROVED SEED PRODUCTION
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4   Year 5
1. Seed Production Area (ha)
Jitpur                               5          5           5          5
Simra                               -          10          20         30        38
5         15          25         35        43
2.  Foundation Seed Production 1/           -         45          135        225       315
(ha)
3.  Coverage with Improved Seed 1/          -          -          405      1,215    2,025
(ha)
4. Premium for Registered Growers
Area (ha)                            -         45         135        225       315
Seed (1000 MT) 2/                   -         1.8         5.4        9.0      12.6
Premium (NRs. '000) 3/               -         54         162        270       378
1/  One ha will produce enough seed for 9 ha.
2/ At 40 MT/ha.
/  At NRs. 30/MT



ANNEX 3
-59- _TaFle -2-Tc7
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUGARCANE   CREDIT REQUIREMENTS
Years                                 TOTAL
W I/       1            2            3           4            5        (NRs.'OOC)
SHORT TERM CREDIT
Per Hectare Credit Requirements (NRs.)
Model I Farmers - Plant Crop                386.00    1,754,00    3,147.00    3,921.00    4,470.00    4,788.00
Incremental Credit Required                    -      1,368.00    1,393.00        774.00       549.00      318.00
Model II Farmers - Plant Crop             2,789.00    2,789.00    3,147.00    3,921,00    4,470.00    4,788.00
Incremental Credit Required                    -            -        358.00       774.00       549.00      318.00
Ratoon Crop                                 375.00       375.00    1,079.00    1,526.00    1,989,00    2,468.00
Incremental Credit Required                    -           -         704.00       447.00       463.00      479.00
Area Covered Annually (ha)
Model I Farmers                                -       2,100.00    2,100.00    2,100,00    2,100.00    2,100.00
Model II Farmers                               -         700.00      700.00       700.00       700.00       700.00
Ratoon Crop                                    -       1,860.00    1,860.00    1,860,00    1,860.00    1,860.00
Total Credit Required (NRs.'O00)
Model I Farmers                                -       2,872.80    2,925.30    1,625.40    1,152.90         667.80    9,244.20
Model II Farmers                               -            -        250.60       541.80       384.30       222.60    1,399.30
Ratoon Crop                                    -            -      1,309.50       831.40       861.20      890.90    3,893.00
Total                                     -      2,872.80    4,485.40    2,998.60    2,398,60    1,781,30   14,536,50
1/ Without project.



-60-
ANNEX 3
Table 2(d)
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ROAD DEVELOPMENT
A. Existing Roads
Earth filling        Concrete
Name of Road                 Distance   and Gravelling 1/   Bridge          Total Cost
kms.           NRs.              NRs.           NRs.
Parsa District
Khuniya - Pokharia             10          2,238,000              -
Jitpur - Birwagudi              8          1,272,000         2,100,000
Sabaithwa - Tilawe             13          1,884,000             -
Belwa - Jagarnathpur            7            982,000             -
Bara District
Kalaiya - Baghuban              5          1,573,000         3,150,000
Kalaiya - Matiarwa              8          1,528,000             -
Surahi - Padam                  8          1,122,000             -
59        10,599,000          5,250,000      15,849,00(0
B. New Roads
Bara Distict
Jaitapur - East West Hwy.       2.5        2,500,000             -           2,500,000
Bhawanipur - East West Hwy.   2.5          2,500,000             -           2,500,00CI
5,000,000             -           5,000,000
l/  Includes cost of culverts.



_ ,, _ ,, _ _ = G . , X, . -; t ' F .
-3  S vr t !- e - - -
t ' J 6 '] ^ LJ; F ; 2 , j
3 | t 6 w G ,, . {] [ 5 | [ - \ t , t _ * - _ J e [
\ F > s L t x I ,G, t - | | t
t l I . ] 
, _ _ .] t  2 r > _ _ _ _ r > - _ u _ l
. ,
i _ = v = S s t _
=.: !t           '                             ,,                                                                                                        .                  .                         ,                               -  .       -           -   -      - -           -n                             S                                ^                        i.                                   =   t   t                                               |
G G O |
_ d ,. .. _ t ; _ . .. c _ _ , t o 
T _ : : _ _ s _ _ _ - - - - - - - '' - _ .R t . . e . W
e . . . r t X .- ^^ -;: ^ ^ - _ e - r = t 5- -
-        .         ^                 a                   6   s                         Z  t          X,     W          6 t                                            g .         ,,          ,   ,  * , -   . #, X w t x K
r, . |






-62-                        ANNEX 3
Table 3(a)
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TOBACCO DEVELOPMENT
Laboratory Equipment for Belachapi Research Station
Item                     Number             Cost
Rs. '000
Gas Plant                            1                 55.00
Conductivity Bridge                  1                  7.00
Autoclave                            1                  3.00
Microscope                           1                 40.00
Incubator                            1                 25.00
Shaker                               1                 15.00
Water Bath                           1                 15.00
Sieve shaker with Sieves             1                 15.00
Metorological Equipment Set          1                 20.00
Calculator                           1                  6.00
Refrigerator                         1                 20.00
Typewriter                           1                 14.00
Glassware                            1                 15.00
250.00



ANNEX 3
-63-                                        , Teble-3(
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TOBACCO : CREDIT REQUIREMENTS
Years
w i/          i            2            3            4                     TOTAL
SHORT TERM CREDIT
Credit Requirements per ha (NRs.)
FCV Tobacco                                2,355.00    4,431.00    4,527.00    5,194.00    5,297.00    6,013.00
Incremental Credit Required                             2,076.00        96.00       667.00       103.00       716.00
Natu Tobacco                                 804.00    1,439.00    1,542.00    2,104,00    2,608.00    3,174.00
Incremental Credit Required                               635.00       103.00       562.00       504.00       566.00
Area under Production (ha)
FCV Tobacco                                1,250.00    1,250.00    1,400.00    1,600.00    1,800.00          1,900.00
Natu Tobacco                                 400.00       500.00       600.00       700.00       800.00       900.00
Total Credit Required (NRs.'OOO) 2/
FCV Tobacco                                             2,595.00        784.70    1,734.40    1,134,20    1,506.10    7,754.40
Natu Tobacco                                              397.90        195.40      435.20       462.40       543.80    2,034,70
Total Short Term Credit                            2,992.90       980.10    2,169.60    1,596.60    2,049.90    9,789.10
MEDIUJM TERM CREDIT
Number of Barns to be Converted                               -          10           20           60           60          150
Total Credit Required (NRs.'000) 3/                           -          50.00       100.00       300.00       300.00       750.00
1/  Without project.
2/  On existing tobacco areas only incremental credit would be provided, while for new areas being brought into
tobacco production, full credit would be provided in the first year of cultivation, and incremental creclit
thereafter.
3/  Unit cost of barn conversion - NRs. 5000.



-Mll~~~~~~~~rtal os :l
-   -    --    -------------   - ~E    E                  .  0'
n,2n11rj~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~--- ----.t
{,e ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~---  ------- ----- 5-  -                                  ---- .oIZ
<1J:~~~~~~ ~ ~      ~~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~ 12A.                         I? e1.   o.   oX       S   s,  1.5.   's.0  2~ I
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5G,S1                                                                   U        .Mb  ,_,S:.5
Su-o1 GhSAI91        AlGA.l.O ::.G                                                                                     2.z     2  .;5. .:
Ihu.mnl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C~ JR                                                                      I.:h As
r9: .z.,)   nt        -  0.5    I  P.S       -      s  1 5             5; sI   1 5.0    7:7D          -    5S+O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -- -- -- -- 
.,   , *hs
. 5........EI.
_- - - - - - -   _-           - -  - - -  - - - -     - -  - - - -  - - -   - - -  - - -  - - -  - - - -  - -  -  - - -  - - -  -   






NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SERICULTURE   CREDIT REQUIREMENTS
Years
1           2             3            4            5          TOTAL
SHORT TERM CREDIT
Total Nursery Area (ha)                         0.40         1.20         2.40          4.00         4.00
Incremental Area (ha)                           0.40         0.80         1.20          1.60          _
Incremental No. of Farmers (No.)                2            4            6            8            -
Total Short Term Credit (NRs.'000)            4.50         9.00        13.40        17.90           _          44.80
MEDIUM TERM CREDIT
Total Mulberry Plantation Area (ha)              -          15.00        45.00         90.00       150.00
Incremental Area (ha)                            -          15.00        30.00        45.00         60.00
Incremental No. of Farmers 1/                    -          15.00       231,00       346.00        462.00
Total Medium Term Credit (NRs.'000)            -         455.00       936.10    1,443.50    1,950.80    4,785,40
1/ Based on an average mulberry plantation area per farmer of 0.13 ha,
, g
m



-66-                                     ANNEX  3
Table 5
ANEPAL
CASH CROP DtEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 5. OILSEED DEVELOPMENT
Detailed Cost Table
(N Rs. '000)
Ouantiti                                   Pase Costs
Unit    1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 Total Cost  1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   Total
!. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CREDIT
Short Term Credit                                                      -        79.8  239.4  159,6  520.8 i,209.6 2Y,20),2
Totall IHESTMENT COSTS                                                                 79,3  239.4  159,6  520.8 ',209.6 23209,2
II. OPERATING COSTS
A. SALARIES
Oilseed Agronceist           Staffiear    1    1    1    1    1       5   20   20.0   20,0   20.0   20.0   2-0.0   100.0
B. OPEPATTION AND MAINTENANCE
Staff Travel I Office Costs                                          2- .0    2.0    2.0    2.0               2.0    10.0
Total t7ERATING COSTS                                                                 22.0   22.0   22.0  '2.0    22.0   110,0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                  101,8  261.4  181.6  542.8 1,231.6 2,'19.2
----- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- -----  ---- ---- --- -  ---- --   _ ----- ---- ---- _ --- ---- ---- ----- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---_



NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OILSEEDS   CREDIT REQUIREMENTS
Years
1           2            3             4            5           TOTAL
SHORT TERM CREDIT
Area
Mustard
Total Area (ha)                               200.00       800.00    1,200.00    2,400.00    4,800.00
Incremental Area (ha)                         200.00       600.00       400.00    1,200.00    2,400.00
Groundnut
Total Area (ha)                                  -            -            -          50.00        350.00
Incremental Area (ha)                            -            -            -          50.00        300.00
Credit
Mustard 1/                                     79.80       239.40       159.60       478.80        957.60    1,915.20
Groundnut 2/                                     -            -            -           42.00       252.00       294.00
Total                                       79.80       239.40       159.60       520.80    1,209.60    2,209.20
1/  Based on credit of NRs. 393/ha.
2/  Based on credit requirement of NRs. 837/ha.
M" 



-68-
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 6. GINC-ER DEVELOPMENT
Detailed Cost Table
(N Rs. '000)
Qumbits kwe Unit
Unit    1983 1984 185 1986 1987 Total Cost 1983  1"4   s9M           13  s  WV
I. INWESTHENT COSTS
A. EQUIPMENT
Ginger Drving Unit /a             Unit             2    3    -    -       5   30        g04   9t6r                    C'
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                    0
II. OPERATING COSTS
A. SALARIES
Girger Agronomist              Staffvear    1 i        1    1    1      5   21 21.0   21 0   210 2 i0 2 I          5
B. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
Travel Costs                                 -    -               -     -        1.0    2,0    2s0 950  2 se
Research Operating Costs lb       ha        3    3    3    3    3    15    2  6.0    &O           0  S.    - 06     0
Drvins Units                                 -    -    -    ^    -       -         -       -    550       5
Market Studs l                                               - -    -    -      50.0  2I 50.
Sub-Total OPATION AND MAINTENANCE                                                  57.0  25S.0   13.0 I5.  15 ai s5f 
Total OPERATING COSTS                                                                  75.0  279O0  r3g.0 36a5 16 5   We0t
Total BASELINE CMSTS                                                                    7850  339.0  124v0    51 32.;Q   fi51Et
/a DrtJing units will be established at Syanjia.
/b  Horticulture Research Station, Pokhara will sake available 3 ha of
tood land for linger research.
fc  Market studs will be or1anized btW BOA.



-69-                                        ANX  3
Table 7
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 7. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Detailed Cost Table
(N.Rs. '000)
Quantity                                   Bas& Costs
Unit------------------------  n.t -------
Unit 1983 1984 1985 19986 1987 Total Cost 1983  1984   1985   1?86   1981  Total
1I OPERATING COSTS
Monitoring Studies /a                 -    -    -    -    -       -       25.0   50.0   75.0   75.0   75',3   300,0
Evaluation Studies /b                -    -    -    -    -        -          -  100.0  200.0  3000.0  30.0   900.0
Total OPERATING COSTS                                                        25.0  150.0  275.0  375.0  375i0 1,200,
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                          25.0  150.0  275,0  375.0  37.3 1,200,0
Is  Collection of information on ProJect inputs and activities.
,'b  Ad-hoc studies to analyze ProJect outpet, effects and general
developmental impact.
----- ----  ---- ----  ---- ---- ----  ----- ----  ---- ---_----   ----  ---- -----_---   ---- ----  ---- ----  ---- ----



ANNEX 3
-70-                       Table 8
Page 1
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INCREMENTAL STAFF REQUIREMENTS
Year 1  Year 2   Year 3  Year 4   Year 5
1. Sugarcane Development
Research
Botanist                             1        1        1        1         1
Plant Pathologist                    1        1        1        1         1
Clerk/Typist                         1        1        1        1         1
Extension
Subject Matter Specialist           1         1        1        1         1
2. Tobacco Development
Research
Tobacco Specialist                   1        1        1        1         1
Assistant Agronomist                 1        1        1        1         1
Plant Protection Assistant           1        1        1        1         1
Junior Technician                    I        1        1        1         1
Junior Technical Assistant           1        1        1        1         1
Barn Operators                      3         3        3        3        3
Tractor Driver                       1        1        1        1         1
Field Assistants                     1        1        1        1         1
Permanent Labour                    2         2        2        2         2
Cashier/Store keeper                 1        1        1        1         1
Clerk                                1        1        1        1         1
Assistant Chemist                    1        1        1        1         1
Generator Operator                   1        1        1        1         1
Lab. Assistants                      2        2        2        2         2
Extension
Subject Matter Specialist           2         2        2        2        2
Redrying Plant
Plant Foreman                       1         1        1        1         1
Mechanical Overseer                 2         2        2        2        2



-71-                            ANNEX 3
Table 8
Page 2
3. Sericulture Development
Main Station: Khopasi
Junior Technician                    1        1         1        1        1
Field Assistant                      2        2         2        2        2
Mechanic                             1        1         1        1         1
Clerk                                1        1         1        1        1
Sub Center: Syangja Dt.
Assistant Sericulture                1        1         1        1        1
Entomologist 1/
Junior Technical Assistant           2        2         2        2        2
Clerk                                1        1         1        1        1
Peon                                 1        1         1        1        1
4.  Oilseed Development
Oilseed Agronomist                   1        1         1        1        1
5. Ginger Development
Ginger Agronomist                    1        1         1        1        1
1/ Will be provided by HMGN out of existing personnel.



7 2
ANNEX 3
Table 9
N E '-F AJ
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROjECT'
TERMS OF REFERENCE OF TOBA,CCO _RODUCTION SPEC .LA-_
The specialist would have wide experience in research and deve-lop-
ment aspects of tobacco and woul.d:
(a)  Evaluate the ongoing research program and adcvino  z- cn an.gec
of direction or new programis considered necessary-;.
(b)  Advise on methods to test, disseminate and utilize the
research results from the programs at the research stations,
to farmers' fields;
(c) Help the training staff (SMS) to incorporate research recom-
mendations into simple lesson plans and "impact points" for
use in the fortnightly training sessions;
(d)  Provide suitable advise and train extension staff and farmers
in the following: nursery establishment and transplanting
methods; field crop maintenance and agronomic practices to be
followed; and harvesting, curing and grading techniques; and
(e) Help TDC staff in scientific storage of tobacco and efficient
redrying.



-73-
ANNEX 4
Table I
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices Used
Unit      Financial        Economic
NRsz-
Output
Sugarcane                             ton          300            300
Tobacco                                             '/             2/
Silk Cocoons (Fresh)                 kg             25             42
Mustard                               kg             4              5.50
Groundnut                             kg             4.50           5.50
Wheat                                 kg             2.60           2.75
Maize                                 kg             2              2.15
Input
Seed - Sugarcane                      ton          320            320
Tobacco                       kg           300            150
Mustard                       kg             5               6.90
Groundnut                     kg             2.50           3.45
Wheat                         kg             3.83           4.05
Maize                         kg             4.50           4.85
Fertilizer (Nutrients) - N            kg             7              8.15
P         kg              7              6.89
K         kg              2.62           3.95
Fuelwood                              ton          250            475
Labor - Bara/Parsa                   manday         10              6.3/5.1 3/
Other Districts              manday         8              5.4/4.5 3/
Draught Power                         pairday       15             13.5
1/  See Table 2.
2/  See Annex 5, Table 1.
3/ Economic price of hired labor and family labor respectively.



-74-                           ANNEX 4
Table 2
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Average Farmgate Price of Tobacco
(a) FCV Tobacco
I Price/kg  I             Average Grade Composition (%)
NRs. 1/ I Present I Year 1 I Year 2 I Year 3 I Year 4 I Year 5
X ~~~~~I    _      _I_I , ,I_ I                 I .
Grade 1   1  18.75         2.6   1  4.0  1  6.0  1  7.0  1  9.0  1 10.0
Grade 2   1  15.60         7e5   1 10.0  1 13.0  1 15.0  1 17.0  1 20.0
Grade 3   1  13.20   1  23.2   1 25.0  1 26.0  1 27,0  1 28.0  1 30.0
Grade 4   1  11.25        33.7   1 31.0  1 28.0  1 26.0  1 24.0  1 20.0
Grade 5       10,20       33.0   1 31.0  1 27,0  1 25.0  1 22.0  1 20.0
Weighted Avg. Price
(NRs.)      11.88     12026    12.49    12.69    12.98    13.25
(b) Natu Tobacco
Price/kg  I             Average Grade Composition (%)
I   NRs. 2/1 Present I Year 1 I Year 2 I Year 3 I Year 4 I Year 5
|   ,  ~      ~ ~~I  I  ,    I        I         II.
Grade 1   1  11.25   1   15    1  18   1  24   1  30   1  35   1  40
Grade 2   1   9.60   1   40    1  39   1  36   1  34   1  32   1  30
Grade 3   1   8.05   1   45    1  43   1  40   1  36   1  33   1  30
I        I          I        I        II            
Weighted Avg. Price
(NRs.)      9.15      9.23     9.38      9.54     9.67     9.80
1/ Prices for FCV have remained unchanged since 1979/80. While prices can be
expected to go up for the present season, these have not yet been fixed,
and for the purpose of this analysis the old prices have been used.
2/ Natu tobacco was not grown for three years, and prices for present season
have not yet been fixed. Prices used have been derived from 1974/75
prices for Natu, assuming the same rate of increase as applied to FCV in
1979/80 (See para 1.31).



-75-                                     ANNEX 4
Table 3
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Per Hectare Yields and Input Requirements
I   I   I   I  I Curing/            I
l   I   I   I  I  Drying  I         I                          I
I    Fertilizer        I Pesti- I Fuel- I & Packing  IFamily    I Hired    IDraught              I
Seed        I N       P   I  K   I cides   I wood  ICost             ILabor       I Labor   I Power          I Yield per ha
I                  i(kg)    (kg) I (kg) I (NRs.) I (NRs.)l  (NRs.)   l(Mandays) I(Mandays)l (pairdays) I                  (tons)
I         I              I       I        I         I         I             I                       I              I
Sugarcane Plant Crop
Model I                 P 1/ 10(-) tons 2/    13           4      -         27       -           -          200           -            20           22 (22) 3/
W     10(-) tons 2/    13          4      -        27        -          -           200           -            20           25 (27) 3/
W      7(5) tons 2/    65        20       -       128       -           -           220          126           30          45 (50) 3/
Model II                P     10(4) tons 2/    31         10      -         54       -           -          200           50           30           30 (30)3/
W     10(4) tons 2/    31         10      -        54       -           -           200           50           30          32(34)3/
W      7(5) tons 2/    65        20       -       128       -           -           220          126           30          45 (50) 5/
Sugarcane Ratoon Crop  P             -              -       -            -             -           -            30           -            -           15
U         -              -       -        -        -        -           -            30           -            -            18
W         -              75       20      -        -        -           -           164          105           -            30
Tobacco - FCV             P        0.05 kg           7        3     -         -        5          290          264           80           20            0.6
U       0.05 kg           7        3      -        -        6          290          264           80           20            0.7
w       0.05 kg          30       40      40       60      10          545          264          276           20            1.0
Tobacco - Natu             P       0.05 kg           7      -       -         -       -           210          223           55           20           0.45
W       0.05 kg           7      -       -         -       -           210          223           55           20            0.475
W       0.05 kg          40      40       40       60      -           360          223          248           20            0.90
Paddy                     P          35 kg          15       5      -         15      -            -           100           20          48             1.5
W         35 kg          20       10     -         40      -            -           110           40           48           20
Wheat                     P         100 kg          15       6      -         -       -            -            80           20          37             1.1
W        100 kg          35       14      14       20      -            -            85           35           37            1.6
Maize                     P          20 kg          10      10      -         10      -            -            75           15           12            1.0
U         20 kg          20      20       20       20      -            -            95           25           12            1.5
Mustard                   P           9kg           -       -       -         -       -            -            32            8           10           0.3
W          9kg           -       -        -        -       -            -            32            8           10           0.3
W          5 kg          30       20       5       50      -            -            32            8           10            0.5
Groundnuts                W         100 kg          20      30       10       50      -            -            40           20           13           0.8
1/  P = Present; W = Future without project; W = Future with project.
2/ Figures in parenthesis show the part of total seed requirement which is
purchased from outside; the rest being met from own production retained
for seed.
3/ Figures in parenthesis show yields from November plantings.



-76-                                          ANNEX 4
NEPAL
CASli CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summarized Income Analysis 1/
1  Net                                           1 Net       I Financiall Manage-   I Manage-   I Percen-
FullV    I        value of I Cost of IBenefit    I                Financing              IBenefit  I Value of I ent and  I rnt and  I tage
I Partial I       IP roduc-    P Produc- I Before     I   Loan  I  Debt   I    Net    I After    I Family   I Investment  Investmentl  Increase
I Budget  I Area Ition        I tion 2/ IFinancing I Receiptsl Servicingl Financing  IFinancingi Labor 3/ 1 Income    I Income - WI Over W
(ha)   ---)----------------------------------  (NRs  ------------                                                                   ()-- --
SUGARCANE 4/
February Planting
- Model I         Partial   0.37 5/  4,188        1,424       2,764       1,424        1,584        160         2,604        730         1,874         1,127        66
- Model II           "       0.37      4,188      1,424       2,764       1,424        1,584        160         2,604        730         1,874         1,272        47
November Planting
- Model I         Partial   0.37       4,518      1,451       3,067       1,451        1,614        163         2,904        730         2,174         1,247        72
- Model II           "       0.37      4,518      1,451       3,067       1,451       1,614         163         2,904        730         2,174         1,392        56
TOVACCO 6/
FCP     - Model I       Full       5.00    41,236    15,345        25,891      15,345      16,796      1,451        24,440      7,160         17,250       13,518        28
- Model II         "         3.00    19,163       5,863      13,300       5,863       6,378        515         12,785      3,512         9,273        7,826         19
Nata - Model I          Full       3.00    17,072      4,501       12,571       4,501       4,876        377        12,194      3,336         8,858         7,862        13
- Model II         "         3.00    16,948       4,443      12,505       4,443       4,815         372        12,133      3,344         8,789        7,826         12
SERICULTURE
Molberry Nursery        Partial   0.20       4,500      2,138      2,362        2,138       2,266        128         2,234         480         1,754          -          -
OILSEEDS
Mustard                 Partial   1.00       2,000        502      1,496          502         527         25          1,473        256         1,217          829        47
Groundnat 7/            Partial   1.00      3,600         837     2, 76'3         837         879         42         2,721        320         2,401           -          -
'.laxze 7/              Partial   1.00       2,925        664      2,261          664         714         50         2,211         760         1,451          -          -
1/  Details are available in project file.
9/  Cash inputs only.
_/  For estinating Management and Investment Income, family labor has been
valued at the market wage rate.
41  Model I represents farmers preoently getting minimal credit and low yields,
and Model II represents farzers getting relatively higher credit and yields.
51  0.22 ha of plant crop and 0.15 ha of ratoon crop.
6/ Model I represents farmers who are presently growing tobacco, and Model II
represents farmers who had discontinued growing tobacco.
7/ It is assumed that groundnut would replace maize; a comparative cashflow
per ha of maize is used to show the benefits to the farmer from groundnuts
as compared with maize.
W - Future without project.



-77-                            mNEEX 4
Table 5
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tobacco Barn Conversion- Estimated Cost Sains Rs
Without                         Ye ar s
Project    1        2       3      4       5       6      !1'
Tobacco Cured (Tons)             3.5        3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    300    3.0          3.0
Fuelwood Required (Tons) 1/    35           2i      21     21      21     21      21        21
INVESTMENT
Cost of Barn Conversion                   5,000
COST SAVINGS
Value of Reduced Fuelwood                 2,250   2,250  2,250  2,250  2,250  2,250   2.25O
Requirement 1/
FINANCING
Loan Receipts 2/                          5,000
Debt Servicing 3                          1,321   1,321  1,321  1,321  1321  15321
NET SAVING                                  929      929    929    929    929    929   L*250-
yIRF   44X
1/  Fuelwood savings are estimated at 30% from the barn remodelling,(from 10 tons of
fuelwood presently required for 1 ton of cured tobacco, to 7 tons per 1 ton cured
tobacco).
2/  The medium term loan is taken at the beginning of year 1, at 15% interest per asrzme
3/ It is assumed that repayment is made in 6 equal instalments, at the end of
each year, beginning from the end of year 1.



-78-                                         ANNEX 4
Table 6
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sericultue - Projected Cash Flow from Mulberry Cultivation
and Silkwouim Rearing (NRs.)
Y e a r s
1        2        3        4        5        6        7       8-10
Area under Mulberry Cultivation (ha)    0.13          0.13    0.13    0.13    0.13    0.13    0.13          0.13
Average number of rearing (No.)              -          2        3        3        3        3        3         3
Yield of Fresh Cocoons (kgs.)                -         15       30       80      100      100      100       100
CASH INFLOW
Sale of Fresh Cocoons                      -         375      750   2,000   2,500   2,500   2,500    2,500
Sale of by prod;icts 1/                    -          75      150      400     500      500      500       500
Total Inflow                             -         450      900   2,400   3,000   3,000   3,000    3,000
CASH OUTFLOW
Plantation Cost
Cost of Saplings 2/                         90        -        -        -        -        -        -         -
Fertilizer - N                              35       105      105      105      105     105      105        105
-P                              14        42       42       42       42      42       42        42
-K                               8        24       24       24       24      24       24        24
Tools & Implements                         100        -        -        -        -        -       -         -
Sub Total                               247        171      171     171      171      171      171       171
Rearin Cost
Reianig -Shed 3/                         2,500        -        -        -        -        -       -         -
Rearing Equipment 4/                     1,100        -        -        -       275      275      -         _
Sub Total                             3,600         -        -        -      275      275       -         -
Hired Labor 5/                                96        56       56       56       56       56       56        56
Total Outflow                         3,943        227      227     227      527      427      227       227
Cash Inflow Before Financing              (3,943)      223      673   2,173   2,498   2,498   2,773    2,773
FINANCING
Medium Term Loan 6/                      3,943       227      227      -        -        -       -          -
Debt Servicing 7/                          -         278      618   1,695   1,695   1,695   1,695          -
Net Financing                         3,943        (51)   (391) (1,695) (1,695) (1,695) (1,695)          -
NET CASH INFLOW                              -         172      282      478      803      803   1,078    2,773
Return per manday family labor               -         4.2      6.9    11.7    19.6    19.6    26.3         67.6
IRR - 39%
1/ Excess stems (for fodder), branches (for fuel), silkworm litter (for manure).
2/ 1,500 sapling at 6 paisa each.
3/ 13 M2 - being an extension to the farmers' residence.
4/ 50% of the equipment would be replaced in years 5 and 6.
5/ Total labor requirements are 12 mandays in year 1 and 48 mandays from year 2 onwards.
It is assumed the farmer would only hire labor for mulberry cultivation.
6/ Medium term loan, for 7 years, at 12% interest p.a., assumed to be taken
at the beginning of each year.
7/ Interest for the first year would be capitalized. The farmer would pay only half the
interest accrued in year 2, the balance being capitalized, and the interest in year 3.
The balance outstanding would be repaid over years 4 to 7.



-79-
ANNEX 5
Page 1
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basis for Economic Analysis
Official Exchange Rate (OER)
RMGN maintains a dual exchange rate, one in terms of US dollars
and the other in terms of Indian rupees. Conversion to border prices have
been made at the present rates of exchange of NRs. 13.2 to US$ 1.00, and
NRs. 1.45 to one Indian rupee.
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)
For economic analysis, benefits and costs of the project have been
valued at border prices. Border prices for internationally traded com-
modities have been derived on the basis of world market prices. In order
to make the costs of non traded commodities comparable, i.e. to convert
their domestic market prices to border prices, a SCF of 0.90 has been
used. Among the main cost items on which the SCF has been applied are
skilled labor costs, cost of draught power, local cost component of total
plant operating and maintenance costs, and local handling and transport
costs. A specific conversion factor has been derived for civil works
construction costs.
Economic Opportunity Cost of Farm Labor
The project areas are characterized by an excess supply of labor,
and limited alternative employment opportunities to agriculture. Further-
more, labor demand has a pronounced seasonal pattern, with peak monthly
requirements occurring in June, July, October, and November. At other
times labor demand is relatively slack or minimal. Consequently, the
current wage overstates the economic opportunity cost of labor.
During the peak season, it is assumed that the marginal product of
labor is equal to the market wage rate, while during the minimum employ-
ment periods, the marginal cost of employing labor would be the economic
value of additional consumption needed to undertake fieldwork (estimated
at NRs. 1.50 per manday). The opportunity cost of labor during the slack
months is based on its estimated value of marginal product in other
non-agricultural activities. These are limited, principally being con-
struction and related activities, and fuelwood collection. On the basis
of the expected distribution of the labor force between the different



ANNEX 5
Page  2
activities, the opportunity cost of labor during the slack period is
estimated at NRs. 4.50 per manday. 1/
Based on the above, and the cropping patterns and labor require-
ments during the three seasons, a weighted average opportunity cost for
both family and hired labor has been derived. The economic opportunity
cost of labor is derived by applying the SCF to the average opportunity
cost of labor.
Family Labor                  Hired Labor
Cost Per Day                 Cost per Day
%       Bara/  Other          %      Bara/  Other
Required   Parsa  Areas       Required  Parsa  Areas
---(NRs.)---                 ---(NRs.)---
Peak Season                   35       10.00   8.00          50      10.00   8.00
Slack Season                  40        4.50   4.50          40      4.5    4.5
Minimum Employment            25         1.50   1.50         10       1.5    1.5
Weighted Average                        5.7    5.0                    7.0    6.0
Economic Opportunity
Cost of Labor                         5.1    4.5                   6.3    5.4
Economic Price of Fuelwood
There is no substitute for fuelwood for tobacco curing in Nepal.
On the margin, any increase in fuelwood consumption for barns would lead
to an increase in the use of cow dung as a source of fuel by farm
families. The latter would lead to a decline in manure available for
agricultural purposes. The opportunity cost of fuelwood is based on the
reduced availability of manure for maize, and its impact on maize yields. 2/
The estimated reduction in the latter, valued at its border price, gives
an opportunity cost of fuelwood of NRs. 475 per ton.
1/ In comparison with Bara/Parsa, the opportunity cost of labor during
the slack period in the other areas is likely to be somewhat lower, as
they have relatively fewer employment opportunities.
2/ Curing takes place during the maize growing season.



ANNEX 5
-81-                           Page  3
As about 20% of present requirements of fuelwood for tobbaco
curing are met with from headloads, a weighted average economic price of
NRs. 430 per ton has been used.
Economic Price of Agricultural Outputs and Other Inputs
Tobacco. JCF has been importing tobacco from India largely due to
the low nicotine content of domestic tobacco, as well as due to its poor
grade quality. Prices used in economic analyses take into account the
above factors, and are derived from IBRD price projections. These are
shown in Table 1.
Silkworm Cocoons. World market prices, and their future projec-
tions, for silk yarn are not available. Silk yarn imported from China is
presently available in Kathmandu at NRs. 650/kg, while that imported from
India at NRs. 800/kg. Based on the former, a processing ratio from fresh
cocoons of 8%, and appropriate transport costs, a present farmgate
economic price of NRs. 42/kg was derived.
Other Outputs and Inputs. The economic prices of other traded
goods such as sugarcane, oilseeds, wheat and fertilizers 1/ are based on
projected 1985 prices, converted to border prices at the OER, after
adjusting for appropriate processing costs in the case of sugarcane, and
transport and handling costs. 2/ Maize is not a traded crop, and its
economic price is derived by maintaining the same ratio between economic
and financial prices as in the case of wheat. Economic prices used are
shown on Annex 4, Table 1. 3/
Construction Conversion Factor (CCF)
The CCF for civil works is estimated at 0.86, based on civil works
costs being represented by a 45% traded component, 35% unskilled labor,
and a 20% non-traded component.
Project Costs and Benefits
In estimating the NPVs for the sugarcane, tobacco, sericulture
and oilseeds components, costs for civil works, equipment and vehicles,
training costs, and annual operating costs have been expressed in terms of
border prices, based on the above assumptions. Benefits represent
1/ It is assumed that Nepal is a potential exporter of wheat and a net
importer of the other commodities.
2/ Local processing and handling costs have been adjusted to reflect
their value at border prices, by applying the SCF of 0.9.
3/ Details are in Project File.



ANNEX 5
-82-                             Page  4
incremental production, net of incremental production costs. In the case
of tobacco, the latter are after deducting the net value of maize, wheat
and mustard output foregone due to the adoption of tobacco by farmers,
inplace of these crops.
Benefits expected from moving the Tobacco redrying plant are a
reduction in storage and other losses. Due to inadequate storage
facilities at JCF, and also the greater handling required of tobacco
before it is redried, 1/ tobacco losses are presently estimated at 7% of
production. TDC has built a redrying and storage complex in
Mahendranagar, which is located centrally, in the producing area. It is
estimated that the storage and other losses would be reduced to about 3%
of production, by moving the plant to the new site. These savings have
been valued at the border prices for tobacco shown on Table 1. The life
of the present plant is estimated to be 10 years.
1/ Tobacco is presently bought from farmers, brought for storage to
Mahendranagar, and then taken to JCF for redrying.



-83-                               ANNEX 5
Table 1
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Price of Tobacco 1/
Projected 1985 FCV Price in 1981 Dollars                       $2,071/ton
(Export unit value of Indian Flue Cured)
Quality Adjustment 2/                                              80%
Adjusted Price                                                  1,657
Transport, Handling and Insurance, to Janakpur                     50
$1,707
Price per ton at JCF                                      NRs.22,500
Transport from Farm to Factory 3/                                 200
Economic Farmgate Price for FCV (per ton)                 NRs.22,300
FCV        NATU
Economic Farmgate Price (NRs./kg)                    22.30      13.11 4/
Nicotine Content of Imports (%) 5/                    1.5         3.0
Present Nicotine Content of Domestic Prodn. (%)    0.7            0.6
With Project Nicotine Content of Domestic
Prodn. (%)                                         1.2         2.0
Economic Farmgate Price Adjusted for Nicotine Content 6/
With Project at Full Development                      17.84       8.74
Without Project                                       10.41       2.62
Prices Used to Value Production (NRs./kg) 7/
W      1      2       3      4       5 onwards
FCV  - Financial 8/              11.88  12.26  12.49  12.69  12.98   13.25
- Economic                  10.41  12.42  13.68  14.79   16.35  17.84
Natu - Financial 8/               9.15   9.23   9.38   9.54    9.67   9.80
- Economic                  2.62   3.35   4.76   6.29    7.51   8.74
1/  FCV and Natu tobacco ara being imported from India.  Imported FCV is
redried at JCF, as is domestically produced tobacco bought from farmers.
In view of this, no processing cost is deducted to arrive at economic
farmgate prices.
2/ Based on ratio of unit value of Nepal's imports of FCV from India to
average unit value of Indian FCV exports - 1981.
3/ After adjustment by SCF of 0.9.
4/  Based on ratio of Natu to FCV import prices paid by JCF.
5/ JCF is presently importing tobacco due to the low nicotine content and
poor grade quality of domestically produced tobacco.
6/ Based on relative nicotine content of domestically produced tobacco,
as compared with imports.
7/ Annual change in economic price during the project, based on the annual
change in price expressed as a percentage of total change between the
present and year 5 financial price.
8/ See Annex 4, Table 2.



-84-                                 ANNEX 5
Table 2
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Cost and Benefit Streams - Total Project 1/
(NRs. Million)
I            I            I            i         I            I
I            I Incremen-  I Incremen- I Total   I Value of  I
I tal Staff  I tal Crop  I Incre-  I Incre-    I
Year   I Investment I & Operatingl Production[ mental  I mental    I Net
I            I Costs      I Costs      I Costs   I Productioni
i            I             I         _ I         ,1I
1         1.4          0.4           5.7        7.5         8.7        1.2
2         9.6          0.6           9.9       20.1        18.5       (1.6)
3        12.3          0.9          13.4       26.6        29.3        2.7
4        11.3          1.1          17.3       29.7        41.6       11.9
5         0.6          1.3          21.6       23.5        57.2       33.7
b         -            0.6          20.8       21.4        59.3       37.9
7         -            0.6          21.2       21.8        61.2       39.4
8         -            0.6          21.6       22.2        63.1       40.9
9         -            0.6          21.7       22.3        63.7       41.4
10         -            0.6          21.7       22.3        63.7       41.4
11         -            0.6          21.5       22.1        63.7       41.6
12         -            0.6          21.5       22.1        63.6       41.5
13         -            0.6          21.5       22.1       63.6        41.5
14         -            0.6          21.5       22.1        63.3       41.2
15         -            0.6          21.5       22.1        63.0       40.9
16-20       -            0.4          21.1       21.5        57.2       35.7
NPV, at 12% discount rate = NRs. 182 million
Benefit-Cost Ratio        = 2.15
1/ Excludes cost and benefits related to the Ginger component, and monitoring
and evaluation costs.



ANNEX 6
-85-                                                           Tabie 1
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
FINANCIALYEAR                                     FY 83                FY 84                 FY 85               FY86                 FY 87
PROJECT YEAR                                        1                    2                    3                    4                    5
CALENDAR YEAR                           1982                  1983                1984                  1985                 1988                 1987
QUARTER                            1   2    3   4    1    2    3   4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3   4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4
CIVILWORKS
Site Selection
Prepare Tenders
Complete Construction                                                         m _  _ _
VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
Prepare Tenders                     -    - L
10
Purchase Vehicles
Purchase Equipment                                  - _            -    -    -
INCREMENTAL STAFFI
23
Research
3
Extension
3
Redrying Plant
Sericulture
World Bank-24143



-86-
ANNEX 6
Table 2
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Disbursements              Semester            Cumulative
1983    2nd  a/               -
1984    1st                  0.1                    -
2nd                 0.1                   0.2
1985    1st                  0.3                   0.5
2nd                 0.5                   1.0
1986    1st                  0.7                   1.7
2nd                 0.8                   2.5
1987    1st                  0.8                   3.3
2nd                 0.8                   4.1
1988    1st                  0.7                  4.8
2nd                 0.6                   5.4
1989    1st  b/              0.6                   6.0
a/ Estimated effectiveness date: July 1, 1983
b/ Estimated closing date: December 31, 1988



-87-
ANNEX 7
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.      Identification Report of Cash Crop Development Project. 2 Vols.
Agricultural Project Services Center. Nepal, July 1981.
2.      Preparation Report of Cash Crop Development Project. Vol I.
Main Text and Annex Tables. Agricultural Project Services Center.
Nepal, April 1982.
3.      Estimates for Roads Development.
4.      Estimates for Remodelling of Tobacco Barns.
5.      Supporting Tables for Financial and Economic Analysis.
6.      Financial Accounts of Birganj Sugar Factory and Janakpur Cigarette
Factory.



-88-
NEPAL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organizational Chart
PROJECT COORDINATION COMMITTEE
Chairman: Secretary Ministry of Agriculture
Secretary/Project Coordinator: Joint Secretory, Ministry
of Agriculture
MEMBERS OF COORDINATION COMMITTEE
- Secretary, Ministry of Industries
- Secretary, Ministry of Commerce and Supply
- Representative of Ministry of Finance and National
Planning Commission
- Chief Engineer, Roads Department
- Managing Director, Agricultural Development Bank
- Managing Director, Agricultural Inputs Corporation
- Director General of Agriculture
- Chairmen Birganz Sugar Factory, Janakpur Cigarette
Factory, Tobacco Development Company
and Nepal Vanaspati Ghee Industries
Sub Committee for                                              Sub Committee for
Sugarcane and Tobacco Development                                         Other Crops
Chairman: Joint Secretary MOI                             Chairman: Director General of Agriculture
Members                                                        Members
- General Manager of Birganz Sugar                            - General Manager: Nepal Vanaspati
Factory, Janakpur Cigarette Factory                           Ghee Industries
and Tobacco Development Company                             -DDGs Agricultural Research and DDG
- Deputy General Managers of Agricul-                            Extension
tural Development Bank and Agricul-                         - Project Coordinator Extension Project
tural Inputs Corporation                                    - Zonal Director of Agriculture: Cen-
- DDGs Agricultural Research and Ex-                             tral and Western Zones
tension
World Bank-24144



/>   820                                                   840                                           N EPAL
, g. >,   <_,                                                                        CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
H UM L A   "                                                                                 PROJECT DISTRICTS
DARCHULA                                                                                                                            Sugarcane
BAJHANGt              ~           MUGU               ~                f           -C  H   I    N   A                        Tobacco
B AJHANG /                           zMUGU          t      v...
f(  4AITADt              * EAJURA)                                                                                                         Sericulture
.   y                                                                                                    Oilseeds
IELHU/)JUMLA                                                     DLP
J ADE LU Hf UC H H A M5                    .                      DOLPA                                                                      Crop Research Stsi ons
\X' DOTI *.AC HHAM\A I_KOT
-C' _    a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  e-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--.-~~~~~~~,n   
/ ,I        a.                                 ,r K                        -                         Lt                                            Ginger
~~K~...\  DAI L EKH                                                  TANGRK    /  $0Tobacco
,KANCHANPUR(                                     JAJARKOT                             7 i musTAJ4.L,
KAtLALI  R)         .              7      UKUM    \      r-               ,\'.   MANANG 
SK   / )                                         I 'li                           _w-t.
>  BA RUIYA     SALYAN'         
XBARDIYA                                                    KASKI  LAMJUNG   K
\  .7'          ,~~~~~~,ROLPA                                Pokara
-28e                                     B . RANKE    ,     42 )Zx G                                        i                    RASUWA I.                                                             28c
'i YT/ A~ .Nj G U LMC\..                       y 
.3s   ~ANG    (>  '?AARGHA4       SANJA  iTANAH                     A( (8         S M  7         <'
DANANC\HI                                           /q     NUWAKO ,! OALAHOA
__                                      C'      -.~~~~~~~~~~~~ '~~~~LN  ~~~PALPA        D10N ~ ~ ~ d                               !     '     1AKUAAH!                  "
--__       District boundaries                                    LU                                        DHADINGl  8   /  N/i                                        H
- -Zonal boundaries                                   yAIIAS U(ADH                   P 0   ~ kHT  AN              \XRALTAPK R t'1;/      /++/SOUHMU {.                               t
-     -International boundaries l                                       5b u n                     _arieKAP 4.                                            * RAT      ?TALP
RUPANDE7                     VA     ~                            ('SOLUKHUMBU,I
/PARSAag                   O >>; >  tSINDHULI '. KHOTANG    Yt   t      ' 
Ki lometers 0        50           lo0         150         200                                                    BARA                                      \q
Miles 0  50  100                                                                                                          'O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/HANKUTA LA
Thii rriap has been prepared by the World Banks staff enclosively for  the conM I  N      D     I   A              i     a                .R A ou            ODYA,,
of the readers of the report to which it is attached The de,iomnio,0 used and the                                                    ,
hoondai,es shown 00 thio map do not imply, on the part of the World Bank asd ts                                                       *ja' stZ.. j SAPTARI /SUNSARI                    JHAPA  
affiliates, any iudgnent on the legal status of any territory or aso endorsemeot or ,                                                                             r'/     / 
acceptance of uch boundariess                                                                                                                                          '-|'          ''   '       o
82_                                                  84_                                                  86                                                  C)
--  I                                                                            (1)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-






IBRD 16604R
F    i                         -     c i  5'i%/    , / ' ---- I- e                   dBS°OC'                                                                                                         /1 ->SV4  FFBRUARY 19831
C                                                   I                                                   'VI ,Z,  \   !  V  /   \   CF   B.   C    H   I   N    AHI
, ed)hy ~-,C.                                                                       IIN                                                      D   I   A
(3~'S,dn                         "*  "A    1R<   S  A'INO-. 
A
(  I            I ~~~~~~~~~9)EkIongy-275
Au0hisaguB korwanipur/
) ~ ~ ~~~V, i'   ,',l                                                    ' ,, L a,F                                                             '0K                          b    K           >
7 t_ t <    '                K'    '7'C-
)          '-  , *1  I    ,       f                                                  Ji8orlyopur                 OA/ .!
-   1.12vz R.cnJ -    EoIol) (Prolectl   ------ Eartherl Rrads                >                                               ,      /                      }, -------  J
itpur~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
| I     BrIfi :Whir. 'r-as  W;tHitw     Jk            +Rl ny  adSITOIS\                                        1                                  i        /Ptrw  BeIwa
-                                              5 A'* 0k     5 SbetrOfc                             1  Dha rmp            /
C     /              A      O ; V                                                                                                                                     KolbhA      Kgclridi.
7                                    Sabaifhw( c  Pr,r>rLK-h 0c 0  IRG--_  SUGAR'FACTORRY
I     -B baq 8 ..     %I e                                                         ,e |                          5/                                  ./ Ie
Sk                 b~r wa            NI'iBStFICtl    -7                                      A< .IOfO /                                                             f                   IIIf
Sc~~~wrirwug Q  /                                  /       '~~~~~~~~~~>I~tiyahilay
If ra a ya                                                I IGA 1`  -1
j                           0P,Cl a . Mlhe>.    ~    CAlJADAt 'heto|
Khe/0~ "vh,                                                                                                                                                 'K        ro-
At/f/V/i  _  -  PAxAL/tNZ~~~~~~  -t  /    ~~a\Bariytarpur                                     /      
SlKO,';A['0'.dn4'),NE  DEVELOPMEN               t                                                                                 I
1. ~ ~ ~  ~   - .._..     ._. ___   .... _J_.           --  --  E-  h- .R _  1 _ _     _   _
HNIIy  PA                    I. tt        .g  B  g,Ptr.
~~F-  ~~      VELOPMEND,T,                                                          4                              ,,p7Tt 171
I-   -      5    .                                             5A   A-IDANC
SC rag-           - Cete  Ofli,c 1-   ---  II -/d-
'sIc CaiN Iii L AN~ if MCI  -C Selectd ToNi
Pk'1adf          ®    Cistr or C00 tel                   N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8500



