Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE CINLY
Report No. P-3467-NEP
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$6.0 MILLION (SDRs 5.6 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 3, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Nepalese Rupee (NR)
Since December 17, 1982
US$1.00      =   NRs 14.3
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADBN     -  Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
AIC      -  Agricultural Inputs Corporation
BSF      -  Birganj Sugar Factory
DOA      -  Department of Agriculture
FAMSD    -  Food and Marketing Services Division
FCV       -  Flue Cured Virginia
HMGN      -  His Majesty's Government of Nepal
JCF       -  Janakpur Cigarette Factory
MOA      -  Ministry of Agriculture
NVGI     -  Nepal Vanaspati Ghee Industries
PCC       -  Project Coordinating Committee
SMS      -  Subject Matter Specialist
TDC      -  Tobacco Development Corporation
T&V      -  Training and Visit
NEPAL FINANCIAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF NEI'AL
CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                Kingdom of Nepal
Beneficiary:             Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
Amount:                  Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) 5.6 million
(US$6.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
Reiending Terms:         An amount of US$214 million would be on-lent to ADkiX
oni terms equivalent to present rediscount facilities
of the Central Bank which allow ADBN to have a 4% interest
margin. In line with present policy, ADBN would lend to
cooperatives at 11% and 8%. who in turn would on-lend to
farmers at 15% and 12% for short and medium-term loans,
respectively. ADBN would also lend directly to farmers
at 15% and 12% for short and medium-term loans respectiv&-ILy.
Project Objectives
and Description:         The project -h-ould pro-o_e cash crop production.
Specifically  it aims to inlcrease produ^tion of
sugarcane, tobacco and oilseeds (mustard and
rapeseed). Pilot development of sericulture and
groundnuts would also be initiated and existing
ginger research facilities strengthened. The
project would improve support services for these
crops and would build on existing efforts to
upgrade agricultural extension and research in
Nepal. The project would also provide for credit
to match the increased input requirements. In
addition, to facilitate the movement of cane to
the sugar factory, the project would provide for
upgrading of about 59 kms of feeder roads, construc-
tion of about 5 kms of new roads, and construction of
two small bridges.
The major benefits from the project would be (a)
incraased agr cultural production (cash crops); (b'l
savings 1n r ofeigrn eKchange, primarily through im.port
substitution; and (c) increased net farm income. The
project faces no special risks. The sugar and
cigarette factories that will process the increased
production are performirng well and the Government has
taken action to deal with the Tobacco Development
Company's financial problems.  No marketing problems
are expected for the other crops.
This document has sa restrictd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofBiaW duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed, without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                               US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total
Civil Works                                    1.28      0.93      2.21
Vehicles                                        -        0.08      0.08
Equipment and Furniture                        0.03      0.15      0.18
Credit                                         2.43       -        2.43
Monitoring and Evaluation                      0.09       -        0.09
Incremental Staff Costs                        0.18       -        0.18
Incremental Operating Costs                    0.18      0.07      0.25
Training and Technical Services                0.05      0.09      0.14
Base Costs                                  4.24      1.32      5.56
Physical Contingencies                         0.25      0.18      0.43
Price Contingencies                            1.04      0.33      1.37
Total Project Costs                         5.53 1/  1.83       7.36
Financing Plan:
IDA                                         4.17      1.83      6.00
HMG                                         1.36        -       1.36
Total                                       5.53      1.83      7.36
Estimated              IDA FY       FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89
Disbursements:
Annual        0.2    0.8    1.5    1.6    1.2    0.7
Cumulative   0.2    1.0    2.5    4.1    5.3    6.0
Economic Rate of Return:               62%
Staff Appraisal Report:               No. 4073-NEP, dated January 28, 1983
Map:                                   IBRD 16603
IBRD 16604
1/ Inc:ludes US$0.03 of duties and taxes.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL FOR A CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Nepal in an amount of Special Drawing
Rights (SDRs) 5.6 million (US$6.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms
to help finance a Cash Crop Development Project.  Of the proceeds of the
credit, about US$2.4 million would be onlent to the Agricultural Development
Bank of Nepal (ADBN) to provide short and medium-term credit under the
*            project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report, "Nepal - Policies and Prospects for
Accelerated Growth" (Report No. 3577-NEP) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on October 15, 1981. The principal findings of the report and
recent developments are described below. Country data are shown in Annex I,
3.      Nepal is one of the least developed countries in the world.  Per
capita income is estimar-ed at US$156 (1981) and health and education stand-
ards are well below the average for South Asia: life expectancy at birth is
only about 44 years, infant mortality is 150 per thousand, and adult literacy
is only about 20%, The population, estimated to be 15.0 million (1981), grew
at a rate of about 2.6% per year during 11)71 to 1981. About 95% of the
population live in rural areas.
4.      Population density with respect to arable land has reached alarming
levels and is threatening to overwhelm the resource base of the economy.
Cultivation has been extended beyond economically feasible and ecologically
safe limits in the Hills, and together wilh denudation of forests to meet
housing and fuel needs, soil erosion has become a critical problem. Firewood
and water have become more difficult to obtain as the forests are reduced
and springs and streams dry up. This deg:-adation of the agricultural base
has made even the present low level of living standards difficult to main-
tain.
5.      AgricuiLure accounts for nearly 60% of Nepal's GDP and 75% of
merchandise exports, and provides the main source of livelihood to over 90%
l/  Parts I arnd II of this report are substantially the same as in the
President's Report (Report No. P-3437--NEP) dated December 29, 1982 for
the Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Stage II Project in Nepal, distributecd
to the Executive Directors under cover of the Secretary's Memorandum
IDA/R83-1.



-2-
of the population. Crop production accounts for about 60% of agricultural
output, livestock for 30%, and forestry for 10%. Paddy is the predominant
food cIrop (planted on about half of the total cropped area), followed by
maize, wheat, millet, and barley; cash crops (oilseeds, jute, sugar and
tobacco) are grown on about 10% of the cropped area. About 25% of total
rural incomes arise from nonagricultural activities, of which cottage
industries are one of the more important and engages over one million people
on a part time basis.
6.      Apart from agricultural land, Nepal's only other important
exploitable resources are hydropower and tourism. The exploitation of the
vast hydropower resources, however, beyond that required to satisfy the
country's own power demand, will depend crucially on Nepal's ability to enter
complex: financial, exploitation and export agreements with neighbouring
countries. The tourism sector, based on Nepal's magnificent landscape and
rich cultural heritage, has been dynamic though it still accounts for only
about 1% of GDP.
7.      When modernization efforts started in the early 1950s, there was
virtually no economic or administrative infrastructure, and initial develop-
ment efforts were necessarily concentrated on establishing a foundation for
future development. The Fifth Development Plan (1975/76-1979/80) marked a
shift in development objectives; acceleration of economic growth, employment
creation and raising living standards of the population became major plan
objectives. Development expenditures rose during this period and there were
substantial shifts in the composition of spending away from transport to
agriculture, power and social services. But given the lead time required for
investments to start yielding returns, GDP growth barely kept up with that of
population.
8.      Part of the reason for this stagnation lies in factors beyond Nepal's
control. The difficult topography and poor resource base are obviously
important in retarding growth. Nepal's landlocked position, long open border
with India and the dependence of its overseas trade on transit through India
create additional disadvantages. While Nepal benefits from the proximity of
a vast potential market for Nepalese goods, the ability to pursue independent
economic policy measures is circumscribed. Furthermore, industrial develop-
ment faces the competition of a far larger and more efficient industrial
sector in India.
9.      But factors within Nepal's control have also contributed to the
stagnation. Problems with the implementation of projects in most sectors of
the economy have constrained the growth of public sector capital formation
which grew at an average of only 5.5% per annum in real terms during the
1970s. In addition, the returns on investments were often lower than
expected because necessary complementary investments or current spending were
lacking, and because of managerial deficiencies. A good example is the
agriculture sector, where output stagnated despite considerable investments



-3-
in irrigation, a virtual doublirig of the irrigated area and a 40% increase in
fertilizer use between 1974/75 and 1979/80.  tn the past, insufficient atten-
t-ion was paid to bringing water down to the farm level and this was com-
pounded by inadequate support services such as extension and research, by the
lack of timely supplies of improved seed, fertilizer and other inputs such as
credit, and by the lack of farm-to-market roads. Recent major irrigation
projects financed by IDA and the Asian Development Bank are now addressing
some of these problems by taking more comprehensive and integrated
approaches.
10.     Over the past decade, the Government lhas made continuous efforts to
rincrease tax revenues.  But, despite the improving long-term trends, the
revenue effort (about 9% of GDP) remains small by comparable international
standards. With limited domestic resources, current expenditures have been
squeezed in order to generate savings for investment spending, with the
result that the efficiency of total spending was lowered.  Furthermore, while
about one quarter of total budgetary expenditures (regular and development)
was being financed by the rest of the world in 1974/75, this proportion was
36% in 1981/82.
Ii.     The slow economic growth has been accompanied by a widening trade
deficit. Import payments have grown while the trend in export earnings has
been sluggish due to declining rice exports. Increased tourism receipts and
remittances, together with foreign assistance in the form of grants and
concessionary financing have, however, genera:ly ensured that the overall
balance remained in surplus.  But even so, for-oign exchange reserves have
declined from being equivalent to abou, one year of imports in .-he ea.ly
1970s to six months in 1981.
12.     Whereas 1980/81 was a year of recovery from the previous year's
severe drought, 1981/82 was a more modest yea-:; agricultural production is
estimated to have grown by 3.5% and GDP by about 4%. Budgetary developments
were quite encouraging. Development expenditures increased sharply, and
revenue collections increased substantially for the second successive year.
Ne.vertheless, the budget deficit increased from about 5.5% of GDP in 1980/81
to about 8.5% in 1981/82, and while foreign assistance also increased, domes-
tic borrowing rose sharply. Also, the underlying economic trends have not
picked up yet, and the economy remains dependent upon the weather. Early
reports indicate that the 1982 monsoon has been less than satisfactory and
thi will adversely affect economic performance in 1982/83.
: c      aOn Seprember 19, 1981 Nepal unified it:s exchange rate with the US
*.:llar a;  3Ro 1',2 = US$1; the exchange rate with the Indian rupee was
-..Langed  N.'   145 = 100. Th-s completed a series of steps to refora
i:.al's eAchan-  w-cate system which .gan when a complex system of multiple
exchange rates and trade restrictions for overseas trade was replaced with a
dual exchange system on March 31, 1978.



-4-
14.     During 1979-81 economic policy making had been delayed by political
developments. Following disturbances in 1979, a referendum was held in May
1980, which reaffirmed the existing partyless system, with suitable reforms.
The constitution was amended in December 1980 to provide, among other things,
for direct election of members of parliament. General elections were held in
May 1981, and the political situation appears to have since stabilized.
During the past year, the Government has focussed its attention on economic
problems and on implementing the Sixth Plan (1980/81-1984/85).
15.     The Sixth Plan reflects Nepal's determination to search for ways to
overcome stagnation and, as a set of objectives, it was endorsed by members
of the Nepal Aid group at its December 1981 meeting. The strategy to shift
investment into more productive sectors is continued and emphasis is given to
alleviating some of the factors that limited past growth. The Plan's prin-
cipal objectives are to increase production at a faster rate, to increase
employment, and to meet basic minimum needs in food, fuel (firewood), drink-
ing water, health services, primary education and rural transportation. The
strategy: (i) accords high priority to developing agriculture, small-scale
industries and Nepal's abundant water resources; (ii) stresses soil conserva-
tion and population control; and (iii) emphasizes full utilization of exist-
ing infrastructure and alleviation of absorptive capacity constraints. The
development strategy also calls for full involvement of the private sector in
agriculture, manufacturing, trade, tourism, construction and transport opera-
tions.
16.     Achieving the Plan's objectives will require quick-yielding sector
programs to generate growth in the short to medium-term as well as human
resource development programs to lay the foundation for sustained growth in
the longer term. Program targets must also be made consistent with overall
financial and implementation capacity. But at the same time, vigorous
measures are needed to remove administrative and domestic financial con-
straints, and the Government has begun to respond to these problems. Reforms
in development administration include the establishment of an Administrative
Staff College; appointment of a Permanent Pay Commission to review civil
service salaries and schemes of service; creation of a Central Monitoring
Unit within the Foreign Aid Division of the Ministry of Finance; and estab-
lishment of treasury offices in each of Nepal's 75 districts to expedite the
release and audit of budgetary funds. The record 49% increase in development
expenditures during 1981/82 may indicate that these efforts have resulted in
a speed up in disbursements. To strengthen domestic resource mobilization,
the Government has set up a revenue training center; formed a Tariff Board
which recommended increases in indirect taxes for the 1982/83 budget; made
preparations for close monitoring of all public enterprises and also liqui-
dated certain of these enterprises; and decided to phase out rice and fer-
tilizer subsidies in the relatively higher-income Kathmandu Valley.
17.     Nepal has received substantial external assistance,.  Aid commitments
have averaged US$165 million per year since 1976, and, according to current



-5-
indications, could reachl an average of about US$300 million per year during
1981/82-1983/84. Foreign assistance is expected to account for about 53% of
total development spending during the Sixth Plan period. The Nepal Aid Group
was formed in 1976 to assist in the overall coordination of financial and
technical assistance efforts and the Group ncw accounts for some 70% of all
aid disbursements. The Group has met four times at plenary meetings under
the chairmanship of the Bank to discuss overall external assistance needs;
local Aid Group meetings in Kathmandu are also held to discuss and coordinate
sectoral development strategies.
18.     Foreign aid disbursements grew rapidly in current prices during the
past five years and were estimated to be US$156 million in 1981/82, but only
about 42% of disburseme-ats were from foreign borrowings, the remainder being
grants. As of December 31, 1981, official fcreign debt outstanding was
US$234 million, of which. US$192 million was cue to multilateral agencies.
These loans were obtained on a highly concessional basis and the grant ele-
ment of total loans remains in excess of 70%. As a result, debt service
payments were only US$4.0 million during 1981, equivalent to less than 2% of
exports of goods and services.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERA"IONS IN NEPAL
9.     Bank Group operations in Nepal began in FY70 with an IDA credit of
US$1.7 million equivalent for a telecommunications project. Since then, 28
additional credits have been approved, bring:ng total IDA assistance to Nepal
to US$326.5 million equivalent, net of cance:lations. In view of Nepal's
many development needs, this assistance has been for projects in a wide
variety of sectors. Six of these sectors account for about 79% of IDA
credits by amount: irrigation/agriculture (US$110.2 million for nine
projects); water supply and sewerage (US$46.3 million for three projects),
power (US$40.8 million for one project); telecommunications (US$21.7 million
for three projects); highways (US$19.2 million for two projects); and rural
development (US$19.0 million for two projects). The proposed credit would be
tihe second in FY83, bringing the total amount of IDA assistance to Nepal to
US$345.5 million equivalent, net of cancellations. No Bank loans have been
made to Nepal. TFC made its first investment in Nepal (US$3.1 million) in a
hotel project in Kathmandu in FY75. In addi-:ion, IFC approved a loan of
US$6.23 million equivalent to Nepal Orind Magnesite (Private) Limited (i.e.
a private company) on Narch 16, 1982.  The loan was to help finance a US$24.9
million project to mine and process magnesite ore.  Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank Group operations a, of September 30, 1982, and
notes on the execution of ongoing IDA projects.  It shows certain delays in
the implementation of some of these projects, particularly during the initial
periods. The delays have been largely due tD Nepal's limited technical and
managerial capabilitiec. In order to assist Nepal in coping with this con-
straint, considerable technical assistance is being given by Bank Group



staff, including our Resident Representative in Katlhnmandu. As a result, the
rate of disbursements is improving; during FY81 and FY82. US$27.8 million and
US$28.5 million equivalent, respectively, was disbursed compared to USq65.1
million equivalent disbursed  uirirng the entire previous 10 vears.  Project
completion reports have been prepared for four projects--First Telecommunica-
tions (Credit No.166, US$1.7 million equivalent), First Highways (Credit No.
223, US$2.2 million equivalent), Tourism (Credit No. 291, US$3.2 million
equivalent), and Birganj IrrSga-ion (Ciedit No. 373, US$6.0 million equiv-
alent).  All four projects experienced delays in implementation, and institu-
tional improvements were less than anticipated; however, all four generated
acceptable rates of return. A completion report on the Settlement Project
(Credit: No. 505, US$6.0 million equiai'len)n has also been written and is
under review.
20.     Bank Group lending to Nepal has so far been at a modest level com-
pared to the country's need for external. assistance,  The international
community has shown considerable interest in Nepal's economic development
and, to date, the shnortage of funds hias nGt been a major bottleneck.  The
main constraint cn the utilization of increased aid has been Nepal's limited
absorptive capacity, affecting the pace of project preparation and implemen-
tation,  The Bank Group has been assisting the Gover^nment in project prepara-
tion through a Technical Assistance Credit (Credit No. 659-NEP, US$3.0 mil-
lion equivalent) and by acting as Executing Agency for a number of technical
assistance projects financed by UNDP.
21.     The Bank Group's current lending strategy places major emiphasis upon
the directly productive sectors (particularly agriculture) and the develop-
ment of complementary infrastructure, including manpower training programs
and facilities, transport, and hydroelectric power. For agriculture, the
basic strategy is to assist Nepal maintain overall foodgrain self-sufficiency
and where possible promote exports of agricultural products.  This strategy
has two major elements: (a) to assist in building tha irrigation infrastruc-
ture in the Terai mainr7 to increase paddy productionir  and (b) to help reduce
the food deficits in the Hills both through rural development projects which
emphasize increasing food production, and more recently through a specific
Hill food projects.  To increase the chances for the success of these
efforts, the Bank has, at the same ticm.e, assisted in the improvement of
agricultural extension as well as the provision of other inputs including
credit.  Projects are being prepared in forestry, leather industry, agricul-
tural manpower development, highways and hydroelectric power.
PART IlI - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
22,     AgricuLture dorminat`es the econorLy, and crop production accounts for
about 60% of agricultural output. Food crops are growmn on about 90% of the
total cropped area,  Paddy is the predominant crop with maize, wheat,  millet



-7-
and barley being of lesser importance. Cash crops are grown on some 240,000
ha or about 10% of the total cropped area. Oilseeds are cultivated over some
125,000 ha while jute, sugarcane and tobacco are grown on 56,000 ha, 23,000
ha, and 8,000 ha respectively.
23.     The production of major foodgrains, except for wheat, has not been
satisfactory over the past decade and has not kept pace with the rate of
population increase which averaged 2.6% per annum. Moreover, increased
production was largely due to area expansion, since average yields, again
with the exception of wheat, declined somewhat. Many factors contributed to
this decline including generally decreasing soil fertility, loss of land
through erosion, cultivation of marginal lands, higher cost and irregular
supply of fertilizers, inadequate agricultural advice and other supporting
services, and inappropriate pricing policies. The Government is taking
measures to overcome these constraints, including, for example, development
of irrigation down to secondary and field level infrastructure to permit
intensive crop production, formulation of suitable forestry and soil conser-
vation programs, improvements in input supply and extension services and
development of manpower training programs. Cash crops, however, fared better
due to more favorable prices, and growth averaged about 3.5% annually through
the 1970s.
24.     Nepal's Sixth Plan (1980/81-1984/85) envisages crop intensification
as a means of increasing food supplies and of improving self sufficiency in
the production of raw materials required for agro-based industries serving
domestic needs and export markets. To meet the latter needs, the Plan
emphasizes the development of cash crops sucL as sugarcane, tea, tobacco,
oilseeds and jute in the Terai and high value crops likce ginger, medicinal
plants, spices, cardamom and sericulture in the hills.
Cash Crops
25.     The total value of cash crops produced in 1978/79 was US$110.0 M,
equal to about 9% of agricultural GDP. In the same year, Nepal exported cash
crops worth US$27.0 M (about one quarter of merchandise exports) out of which
the contribution of jute was 88%. Imports oi- commodities such as tobacco,
tea, sugar and vegetable oil in 1978/79 amournted to US$3.0 M.
26.     Oilseeds.  Mustard and rapeseed are t:he principal oilseeds and are
grown mostly after maize or early paddy crop: exports amounted to nearly US$2
million in 1978/79. In recent years oilseed production has increased
annually by about 3% but yields remain low, due to delays in sowing, insect
attacks, inadequate input use and poor cultivation practices. HMGN plans to
introduce groundnut cultivation on a large scale in order to manufacture
vegetable oil.
27.      Jute.  Jute has been Nepal's second most important export crop
(after rice) and is largely grown in the Terai with production having



-8-
increased by 1.5% per year during the 1970s and exports which had averaged
17 000 'IT annually during 1969-73, increased to 27,000 MT during 1975-78.
However, world market prospects are not promising at the moment and exports
have declined somewhat.
28.     Sugarcane.  Sugarcane is mostly grown in the Terai under rainfed
conditions in rotation with food crops. Processing of white sugar is done by
three sugar mills (with a total crushing capacity of 2,400 MT/day) and a few
other smaller units which make brown sugar and gur (unrefined sweetener).
Sugarcane yields are low because of a variety of factors: (a) poor extension
services (currently the responsibility of the Birganj Sugar Factory) and
inadecuate research support, (b) low levels of fertilizers and pesticides
usage, (c) poor seed and lack of timely cultural operations, (d) inadequate
amounts of short term credit3 and (e) difficulties in transportation of cane
due tc a poor road network.
2'o     Tobacco.  Tobacco is a w-½nter crop grown under rainfed conditions in
the Terai, in rotation with food crops such as maize, wheat and mustard. Two
types of tobacco are commonly produced - Virginia Gold, a flue cured variety
(FCV) of potentially high quality, and Natu, a sun cured variety of lesser
quality.  Yields and general quality (in terms of grades and nicotine con-
tent) are low because of poor access to advice and absence of scientific
harvesting and curing techniques, and low fertilizer usage as a result of a
shortage of production credit.
30.     Commercial production of tobacco started in 1967 following the estab-
lishment of the Janakpur Cigarette Factory (JCF), which has an installed
capacity of 3,000 M cigarettes per year. Initially JCF relied entirely on
local tobacco, and purchased all tobacco produced in the main tobacco growing
districts immaterial of quality. JCF started producing better quality
cigare-ctes in 1977 and superior tobacco grades were imported for blending
with local tobacco. The factory, however, continued to purchase all domesti-
cally produced tobacco which resulted in considerable overstocking. As a
ccnsequence, JCF exported about 3,700 MT of low quality tobacco and ceased to
buy domestic -tobacco in 1981 and 1982. JCF has now disposed off the surplus
and beginning in 1983 will buy about 50% of its requirements from domestic
growers
31.     The Tobacco Development Company (TDC), established in 1971, was given
responsibility for tobacco research and extension, buying tobacco from the
farmers, regrading and redrying the leaf and selling it to the JCF. TDC has
a limited number of technical staff who do not have adequate knowledge of
tobaccc) cultivation and are thus unable to provide advice on cultural and
curing practices. Similarly, the quality of work produced at the tobacco
research station at Belachapi is poor. In addition, TDC's financial situa-
tion has deteriorated because of poor management, high administrative costs,
.ve-rstocking of tobacco and the low prices at which it sells redried tobacco
to JCF.



-9--
32.     Tea.  Tea is cultivated on publicly and privately owned estates in
the eastern most part of Nepal amounting in total to about 3,000 ha. A
smallholders' tea program has also been recently introduced with financial
assistance from the United Kingdom.
33.     Sericulture.  Mulberry cultivation and silkworm rearing was started
in the Hill areas of Nepal in the mid 1970s when the Department of Agricul-
ture (DOA) established a sericulture station at Khopasi in Kavre district.
Silkworm rearing has now been undertaken by about 20 farmers in the vicinity
of the station and more recently by two farmers in the nearby district of
Syangja.  Mulberry is usually cultivated on land which is not suitable for
growing food crops and consequently has considerable scope for expansion.
The main constraints to expansion are (a) inadequate facilities for con-
tinuous egg production, (b) lack of technica:L support in Syangja district,
(c) absence of credit facilities to farmers, and (d) lack of training
programs for farmers and staff.
34.     Ginger.  Ginger cultivation is mainly concentrated in a few Western
Hill and Teral districts; about 20% of production is consumed domestically,
the rest is available for export. So far there has been little change from
traditional farming practices; research and extension efforts have been
limited and have had little impact. New varieties, which would fetch a
better price in export markets have not been introduced; and drying techni-
ques have yet to be adopted by farmers who, as a result, sell fresh ginger
and thus encounter logistic problems in marketing. Marketing is done through
local traders who act as representatives of wholesalers, who in turn export
the ginger to India.
35.     Among other Hill grown cash crops are cardamom, turmeric, chillies,
garlic, and medicinal plants. Production of all these crops has been con-
strained by the absence of organized marketing, poor research and extension
services to growers.
Agricultural Institutions
36.     The institutions responsible for agricultural development and policy
include: the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), the Ministry of Water Resources
and the Ministry of Forestry. MOA includes DOA which is entrusted with the
task of promoting production of cash crops through extension, training and
research, although, as noted above, the responsibility for extension efforts
for sugarcane is presently with BSF and for tobacco extension and research
with the TDC. DOA extension services are decentralized to the district level
with each district program headed by an Agricultural Development Officer or
an Assistant Officer. The actual field work is carried out by Junior Tech-
nicians and Junior Technical Assistants, each receiving two years and one
year training respectively. A recent innovation has been the employment of
Agricultural Assistants at the village level, selected mainly from among



-10-
progressive farmers and retired servicemen. The extension wing of DOA
employs about 151 graduates and 1,007 other staff (including field staff).
The extension services have been relatively ineffective in increasing produc-
tivity for a variety of reasons. The extension staff are required to perform
varied tasks concerned with the input supply, credit, data collection and
application of regulations and can devote little time to meeting with farmers
and providing them with technical support. The Government has, however,
begun to deal with some of these problems and agricultural extension services
in the Terai are being reorganized under the "Training and Visit" (T&V)
system of extension. The IDA assisted Irrigation Projects (Credits 373, 654,
812, 856 and 1055-NEP), as well as the Agricultural Extension and Research
Project (Cr.  1100-NEP) have helped strengthen these efforts.  Of 20 dis-
tricts in the Terai, 14 are now covered by improved levels of extension. The
IDA assisted Hill Food Development Project (Cr. 1101-NEP) has also provided
improved extension services in four Hill districts. In addition, efforts are
being made to alleviate some of the present deficiencies in training of
extension workers, possibly with IDA assistance.
37.     The agricultural research service, operated by DOA, is responsible
for providing information based on basic and applied agricultural research
for development of all the regions and climatic zones of Nepal. 52 research
centers are located throughout the country. Considerable progress has been
made with rice, wheat and maize under the Integrated Cereals Project (ICP),
assisted by USAID, but much more applied and adaptive research is needed for
increasing crop production. Major problems are insufficient operating funds,
inadequate facilities at a number of research stations and shortages of staff
working in different agroclimatic zones on location specific problems.
However as with extension, HMGN has begun to tackle some of these problems
and under the IDA assisted Agricultural Extension and Research Project, four
regional research stations are being upgraded.
38.     The MOA also has overall responsibility for a number of public
instituLtions such as the Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN) and
the Agricultural Inputs Corporation (AIC). ADBN is the major source of
institutional credit in agriculture. Its functions are to provide (a) credit
to Sajhas (multi-purpose cooperatives) and to corporate bodies engaged in
agricultural development; (b) loans directly to farmers for purchases of
inputs; and (c) banking facilities in places where commercial banks are not
established. Institutional credit, however, caters to only about 25% of
Nepal's agricultural credit needs, with the balance being met from tradi-
tional sources. Moreover, in the last few years, ADBN's lending operations
have decreased because of inadequate resources made available to ADBN,
recovery of only 30-40% of loans made to Sajhas for onlending to members,
lengthy and complicated procedures for borrowing, and difficulties in estab-
lishing collateral for loans, which discourage farmers' demand for institu-
tional credit. The objectives of the Sajhas are to provide credit, agricul-
tural inputs and marketing facilities, as well as to sell consumer goods.
Efforts were made during 1976-78 to strengthen their effectiveness by



-1 1-
appointing them as buying agents in HMGN's foodgrain procurement program and
also by having ADBN provide management assistance. But these measures have
been terminated and management difficulties have led to increasing financial
problems and have hindered Sajhas' ability to assist farmers.
39.     AIC is the sole government agency responsible for supply of inputs of
fertilizer, seeds, pesticides, and agricultural tools and machinery; it sells
the bulk of its products through the Sajhas. Poor management has, however,
limited AIC's ability to supply appropriate inputs in a timely fashion, and
these difficulties have been further aggravated by the financial problems
resulting from HMGN's fertilizer subsidy policy. In addition, while Nepal
obtains a large proportion of its fertilizer supplies on a grant basis, the
types of fertilizer are not always approp-riate for Nepal's needs. In
response to these problems, HMGN is preparing a national fertilizer policy,
which is likely to include some reduction in subsidies. In addition, the
IDA-assisted Agricultural Extension and Research and the Hill Food Projects
have included the provision of fertilizer to complement other project com-
ponents.
PART IV  -  THE IPROJECT
40.     The original request from HMGN for assistance included an investment
program for the development of sugarcane, tobacco, tea, oilseeds, sericulture
and ginger. At appraisal, it was decided not to include tea development as
adequate assistance was already being provided.  In the case of groundnut_-
since neither suitable varieties existed nor enough research knowledge was
available for large scale development, only a small pilot program would be
included in the project.
41.     The proposed project was prepared by the Agricultural Projects Serv-
ices Center (Nepal) with the assistance of t:he FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
and financed by HMGN. The project was appraised in May/June 1982. Nego-
tiations were held in Washington, D.C. on December 9-10, 1982. HMGN was
represented by a delegation led by Mr. I.B. Shrestha. A report entitled
"Nepal: Cash Crop Development Project, Staff Appraisal Report" (Report No.
4073-NEP, dated January 28, 1983) is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. A timetable of key events relating to the project and
the special conditions of the proposed credit are given in Annex III.
Project Objectives
'.2.     he project's objective is to promo-e the production of cash crops.
opecifically> it aims to increase production of sugarcane, tobacco and oil-
seeds (mustard and rapeseed). Pilot develoi3ment of sericulture and ground-
nuts would also be initiated and the existing ginger research facilities
strengthened. The project would build on existing efforts to upgrade



-12-
agricultural extension and research in Nepal in order to provide improved
services for these cash crops. This would be complemented by the provision
of credit to match the increased inputs needed to raise production.
43.     Higher production of sugarcane will enable the Birganj Sugar Factory
(BSF) to obtain sufficient inputs to enable it to operate at optimal
efficiency. Tobacco development seeks to substitute domestic production for
imports of high quality tobacco required for blending of better grade
cigarettes, and the project is intended to reduce imports by about 50% over
the project period. The project would lay the foundation for a future area
expansion program of groundnuts to meet the needs of Nepal's recently estab-
lished vegetable ghee industry which at present has to rely on imports for
the bulk of its inputs. Nepal has been an exporter of oilseeds (rapeseed and
mustard), and raising the yields of these crops would contribute to improving
Nepal's export earnings, as would the promotion of ginger production.
Sericulture development in the Hills is primarily aimed at increasing cash
incomes of small farmers by making optimal use of marginal arable land.
Project Description
44.     The proposed five year project would:
(a) increase sugarcane production on 4,660 ha through improve-
ment of research and agricultural extension services,
development of a seed multiplication program, provision of
short term credit to canegrowers and upgrading and construc-
tion of feeder roads;
(b) increase yields and quality of tobacco grown on 2,800 ha
by strengthening of research and extension services, improve-
ment of tobacco redrying facilities, provision of incremental
short and medium term credit to growers for production purposes
and barn improvement, and by staff and farmer training and
technical assistance;
(c) promote the development of sericulture on a pilot basis through
establishment of 150 ha of mulberry, provision of staff, train-
ing, vehicles, equipment and facilities for silkworm produc-
tion and rearing, and provision of short and medium term credit
to farmers for nursery establishment, mulberry cultivation and
silkworm rearing;
(d) increase yields of over 4,800 ha of rapeseed and mustard crops
through strengthening of research, provision of short term
credit to growers and initiating pilot development of groundnut
production (350 ha) through research, varietal selection, seed
production and production credit; and



-13-
(e) strengthen ginger research and initiate a marketing study.
45.     Sugarcane Development.  The project would increase production of
sugarcane so that BSF would be able to meet its entire milling requirements
from farmers in Bara, Parsa and part of Rautahat districts where the "T & V"
system of extension is in operation. Yield increase would come from improved
research, better advice to growers, planting of improved seed, use of optimal
levels of inputs provided through short term credit and better and timely
cane extraction through a road improvement prcgram. The sugarcane research
station at Jitpur would be strengthened by prcviding laboratory facilities
and some additional staff, and research programs reoriented to provide prac-
tical answers to farmers' problems.  The projEct would also include a seed
production program to make available a regular supply of improved seed to
farmers. Extension support for sugarcane development, would, in future, be
provided by DOA staff already working in Bara, Parsa, and Rautahat districts.
But the project would provide for a subject matter specialist (SMS) in sugar-
cane to ensure training and technical support to extension staff.  HMGN has
formally transferred the responsibility for the provision of extension sup-
port and advice to sugarcane growers from BSF to DOA. The present field
staff of BSF, who largely concentrate on credit and input supply and on
running the cane buying centers, would, however, continue to do this work.
The project would provide the incremental credit needs of cane growers so
that all farmers could obtain the recommended level of credit to meet input
requirements (see paragraph 55 for the lending terms). Loan recovery in the
project area will be "automatic" since it wil:L be made at the time that the
BSF pays the farmers for their cane. To ensure a satisfactory network of
feeder roads in the area supplying cane to BSF, the project would provide
funds for raising the road level and gravelling of 59 kms of existing feeder
roads, construction of two small bridges and dlevelopment of 5 kms of new
road. The roads will be maintained by the Roads Department after the project
period (draft Development Credit Agreement (DCA), Section 3.03 and Part C(i)
of Schedule 5).
46.     Tobacco Development.  The project would intensify research and exten-
sion efforts to increase tobacco yields and quality.  HMGN has formally
transferred the responsibility for (a) the Tobacco Research Station at
Belachapi from TDC to DOA, and (b) the provision of extension support and
advice to tobacco growers from TDC to DOA. The project would strengthen the
existing research facilities at Belachapi by providing additional staff,
staff quarters, laboratory equipment and vehicles. The project districts
(Sarlahi, Mahottari, Dhanusha and Sirha), are amongst those where the exten-
sion system is being strengthened by the intrDduction of the "T & V" system
and transfer of extension functions from TDC to DOA will provide for inten-
s:ive extension support to tobacco growers. The project would provide two
tobacco SMS to provide technical support to extension staff and also a
tobacco production specialist who will work with field staff during the six
month growing season (draft DCA, Sections 3.03 and Part C(vii) of Schedule 5
and 3.04). To train growers in barn management and curing, trained curers



-14-
from neighboring countries would also be employed on a contract basis (draft
DCA, Sections 3.03 and Part C(vi) of Schedule 5 and 3.04). The present field
staff of TDC would continue to coordinate credit and input supplies, to run
the tobacco buying stations and to help in redrying operations. In order to
improve the existing tobacco storage and redrying facilities, provision is
made for relocation of the redrying plant to new buildings.  About 150 large
tobacco curing barns would be remodelled through medium term loans to owners
to economize on fuelwood consumption.
47.     The project would provide for the incremental credit needs of farmers
to finance the increased use of fertilizer, pesticides and labor. As in the
case of sugarcane, loan recovery would occur when the farmer sells tobacco to
TDC.
48.     In order to improve the poor financial condition of TDC, HMGN under-
took an expert study of TDC which has been reviewed by IDA. As a result, the
management and financial structure of TDC and JCF have been rationalized by
the appointment of a joint chairman for the two companies and by HMGN and
JCF contributing to the equity and working capital of TDC. Under the
project, HMGN has also established a high level committee, comprising one
representative each from MOA, Ministry of Industry, ADBN, JCF, and TDC, which
will be responsible for recommending the prices to be paid to farmers and the
rates at which tobacco should be sold to JCF (draft DCA, Section 3.02(b) and
Part B of Schedule 5).
49.     Sericulture.  The project would finance (a) a substantial increase
in silkworm egg production at the main sericulture station at Khopasi (Kavre
district) so as to meet the needs of 200 ha of existing and of new mulberry
areas to be developed by the fifth year of the project in both Kavre and
Syangja districts, (b) establishment of a sericulture subcenter in Syangja
district (near Walling) to provide technical support to farmers, hatching and
supply of silkworms and purchase of cocoons, (c) testing of different types
of hand reeling units, (d) training for farmers and staff, and (e) short term
credit for establishment of mulberry nurseries and medium term credit for
mulberry cultivation and silkworm rearing. To ensure best use of existing
trained staff, SIGN will post the Assistant Sericulture Entomologist to the
Walling subcenter by June 30, 1983 (draft DCA, Section 3.03 and Part C(ii) of
Schedule 5).
50.     Oilseeds.  The project would provide short term credit to growers
to permit increases in production of the rapeseed and mustard crops (4,800
ha) and groundnut (350 ha) in the Nawalparasi, Chitwan, Sarlahi and Rautahat
districts. Credit for groundnut would be made available in the fourth
project year by which time suitable varieties and practices would have been
established. HMGN agreed that the Nepal Vanaspati Ghee Industries (NVGI)
would purchase all suitable groundnut seed produced by farmers and distribute
it to growers (draft DCA, Section 3.03 and Part C(iii) of Schedule 5).
Efforts to upgrade agricultural extension are already underway in the four



-15-
districts and should be sufficient to meet the needs of the oilseeds com-
ponent of the project. The National Oilseed Research Station at Sarlahi has
already been strengthened under the IDA-assisted Agricultural Extension
Project but the present project will provide for an additional Oilseed
Agronomist.
51.     Ginger.  The project provides funds for strengthening of ginger
research at Pokhara, testing of ginger drying units and a ginger marketing
study. HMGN agreed to make available an area of 3 ha for ginger research at
the Pokhara Horticultural Station, and complete, by December 31, 1984 and
furnish to IDA, the marketing study and a report on drying units (draft DCA,
Section 3.03 and Part C(iv) of Schedule 5).
Organization and Implementation
52.     Project activities would be carriec out over approximately five years
through the Government's line agencies and public sector institutions. Over-
all responsibility for project implementation would be with the MOA but
coordination with other implementing agencies would be ensured through the
Project Coordination Committee (PCC). The committee will be chaired by the
Secretary MOA, and comprise the Secretaries of the Ministries of Industry,
and of Commerce and Supplies and representatives of the Ministry of Finance
and the National Planning Commission, the chief engineer of the Roads Depart-
ment, the Director General of Agriculttf-n and General Manager/Chairman of
ADBN, AIC, BSF, JCF, TDC and NVGI. As different ministries will have
exclusive responsibility for implernenting :->e.r respective programs, PCC has
established two sub-committees, chaired respect4vely by a Joint Secretar.
Ministry of Industry (for sugarcane and tobacco) and the Director General of
Agriculture (for all other crops) comprising senior staff of those organiza-
tions having an input into project implementation (draft DCA, Section 3.02(a)
and Part B of Schedule 5).
53.     Monitoring of project implementatiDn and the evaluation of project
benefits would be carried out by the Evaluation and Program Analysis Division
of MOA assisted by the Food and Marketing Services Department (FMSD) of the
same Ministry. HMGN agreed that FMSD would be responsible for collecting
data on those cash crops to be developed under the project (draft DCA, Sec-
tion 3.03 and Part C(v) of Schedule 5).
Cost and5Financing
54.     The total project cost is estimated at US$7.36 million equivalent
including a negligible amount of taxes and duties. The foreign exchange
component is estimated at US$1.83 M (25% of project cost). The proposed IDA
credit of US$6.0 million would finance abcut 82% of project cost and would
cover all foreign exchange cost (US$1.83 million) and US$4.17 million of
local cost. The balance of the funds required for the project would be made
available by HMGN. The sugarcane component would absorb 41% of project cost,



-16-
tobacco 21%, sericulture 9%, oilseeds 2%, ginger 1%, and monitoring and
evaluation 1%. Physical contingencies are estimated at 20% on road costs,
15% on buildings and tobacco redrying costs and 10% on other plant and
vehicle operating costs, and which account for about 8% of the base cost.
Price contingencies have been applied in accordance with current Bank
estimates of expected inflation rates (1983: 9%; 1984: 8%; 1985: 7.5%;
1986: 7%; 1987 onwards: 6%) and compounded accordingly and which account
for about 25% of the base cost.
55.      The bulk of the IDA funds (US$3.6 million) would be channeled
through the Ministry of Finance to the budgets of participating ministries,
and IHMGN would make adequate provision each year in the budgets of these
ministries for the operation of the project (draft DCA, Section 3.01(b)).
HMGN will make available to ADBN the remainder (US$2.4 million) as agricul-
tures credit funds for meeting additional credit requirements for cash crop
production in the project districts (draft DCA, Section 3.01(c)(ii)). Funds
wou-Ld be on-lent to ADBN on terms equivalent to present rediscount facilities
of the Central Bank which allow ADBN to have a 4% interest margin sufficient
to cover operating expenditures and charges and to maintain adequate reserves
to rmeet reasonable bad debt risks. In line with present policy, ADBN would
lend to farmers at 15% and 12% for short and medium-term loans respectively
and would also lend to cooperatives at 11% and 8%, who in turn would on-lend
to farmers at 15% and 12% for short and medium-term loans, respectively.
Inflation in Nepal was about 9% in mid-1981/82 and the medium-term outlook is
for it to decline somewhat. The interest rate to the farmers should there-
fore remain positive in real terms.
Procurement
56.     Procurement of vehicles and equipment involving contracts above
US$50,000 would be on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with IDA guidelines. Where contracts are valued at less than
US$30,000, and aggregating to US$200,000, items may be procured under local
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association. Civil works
would comprise buildings which would be small and distributed throughout the
project area, and feeder roads which are simple and labor intensive. Accord-
ingly, construction of buildings and feeder roads would be awarded following
local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Disbursement and Audit
57.     Disbursements would be made against: (a) 80% of expenditures for
civil works, (b) 100% of foreign expenditure for directly imported equipment,
materials, and vehicles, (c) 100% of ex-factory cost for locally manufactured
goods, (d) 75% of local expenditures for other goods procured locally,
(e) 58% of incremental operating cost, (f) 90% of amounts disbursed by ADBN
on short and medium term sub-loans, and (g) 100% of total expenditures on
training and technical services.  HMGN would prepare and present to IDA



-17-
administrative and financial data regarding progress of the project, includ-
ing procurement of goods and services, civil works, expenditure, and disbur-
sements (draft DCA, Section 3.06(a)(b)(c)). HMGN would also maintain
separate accounts and audits of the project. including separate accounts for
expenditures made against statements of expenditures and would furnish to the
Association, as soon as possible but in any case not later than nine months
after the end of each fiscal year, certified copies of financial statements
for the year and the report of such audits (draft DCA, Section 4.01(c)).
Benefits and Risks
58.     The principal benefit generated by the project would be the increased
production of cash crops in Nepal. This would lead to savings in foreign
exchange primarily through import substitu:ion. At full development, produc-
tion in the project area would increase, in the case of sugarcane by 72,700
tons, tobacco by 1,600 tons, oilseeds by 1,200 tons, and of fresh cocoons
from sericulture by 115 tons. Farmers can expect an increase in net cash
inflow from sugarcane of between 50-60%, fi-om oilseeds of between 25-35% and
from tobacco of between 10-25%. No marketing constraints are foreseen for
any incremental production resulting from -he project. The upgrading of
existing feeder roads and the construction of new feeder roads should have a
favorable impact on the project areas' overall development. The promotion of
the cash economy can also be expected to have a multiplier effect on the
rural economy in the project area as a whole.
59.     The project would improve the income and consumption levels of an
estimated 37,000 farm families. Of these, over 50% are in the lowest income
groups, with holdings of less than 1 ha, and whose incomes are inadequate
to meet basic calorific requirements; 30% are medium size farm families with
holdings of between 1-3 ha. In addition to increases in on-farm labor
requirements, the project would generate an estimated 1.0 million mandays of
construction employment over the project life. The economic rate of return of
the total project is 62%. Sensitivity tests indicate that yields, the key
variable in this project, obtained with the project would have to be much
lower than those projected, for the project's viability to be threatened.
60.     The performance of public sector enterprises in Nepal has not been
satisfactory. However, of the three public sector units involved in the
project, the Birganj Sugar Factory and the Janakpur Cigarette Factory are
performing well. TDC had been experiencing financial problems, however, HMGN
took action to deal with these prior to negotiations. Other risks are mini-
mal. The best farmers in the project area have already obtained yields
anticipated under the project. Major increases are therefore possible, even
in the process of bringing the production level of average farmers up to that
of the best farmers.



-18-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Nepal
and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
62.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.  The execution of the subsidiary Loan Agreement between HMGN and ADBN
would be an additional condition of effectiveness.
63.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 3, 1983
Washington, D.C.



-19-                                                                  Pope I
TAB lE 3A
NEPAL - __ ''TAL INDICATO;S DATA INrT
NEPAL                          REFERENCE GRORPS  1WEIIHTi:D AV',URACES
ARrA P THOUITAND SQ. YM-)                                                           -  PUT   r'EI'ST ESTIVATE)--
IOTAL             i4'.8                                  MOST RECENT            LO U INC.-R-           MIDDLE 'I1COME
ACRICULTURAL.      40.2               1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA 6 PACIFIC        ASTA S PACIFIC
CNP PER CAPITA (5S$)                    50.0         70.0      156.0               261.4                     890.1
ENLiiGY CONTiU.''TilOS P'ER CAPITA
(KiLUJVAŽiS ,;' CUiL LyL,iAVALENT)     4.3         14.9       13.0               448.7                     701.7
POPULIATIVN AND VITAL STATISTICS
PoPILATIUN:, MID-YER (liDANDS)  9447.0          11355.0   15020.5 Ic
URBAN POPiLATI0  (PERC'tNT OF TOTALI)  3.1         3.9        5.0                17.3                      32.4
POPULATICN PROJECTIONS
POPUL.IIu,N IN YEAK 2CC0  (MILLIONS)                        22.3
STATIONARY rOFPLAFlOl (MILLIONS)                            53.9
YEAR STATIONARI POP8LA1O  5i REACHED                     2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         67.1         80.6      101.3               158.1                     255.9
PER SQ. KlI. AGRICULTUIAl, LAND    267.f4       312.4      354.8  -            355.9                    1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTORE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           39.1         42.0       42.5                36.8                      39.9
15-64 YRS.                           57.4         55.0       54.5                59.7                      56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.5          3.0        3.0                 3.5                       3.3
POPULATION GROWTHi RITE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.3          1.8        ;                   2.0                       2.3
URPAN                                4.4          4.2        4.9                 3.3                       3.9
CR'JDE BIRTHi RAIT (PER THOUSAND)     43.6         45.5       42.1                29.3                      31.8
CRUDE DEATl RATE (FER THOUSAND)       26.5         23.7       19.8                11.0                       9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.7          3.0        3.0                 2.0                       2.0
FiVRILY FLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         -          37.4      146.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            0.7/d      4.3/d              19.3                      36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDE: OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPIITA (1969-71-500)          106.0        101.0      89.0                108.1                     115.6
PER CAE;ITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIGHEMENIS)                    94.2         94.5      88.7/e               97.3                     106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER LA'.Y)          50.8         50.5       46.5/h             56.9                      54.4
OF WHICH AN''"AL AND PULSE         9.5          9.2        8. 4e              20.0                      13.9
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       32.6         27.8       23.0                10.9                       6.7
FEALIH
l.IFF EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.6          40.5       44.2                57.8                      59.8
'INEANT MORTALITY PATE (fER
THOUSAND)                            194.5        172.5      150.2                89.1                      63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOFAL                                 ..          2.0        8.0/f              32.9                      32.0
URBAN                               47.7         53.0       81.0/f              70.7                      51.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..        5.0(/              22.2                      20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          1.0        1.O/g              18.1                      37.7
URBAN                                 .,         14.0       14.0&              72.7                      65.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                 4.7                      24.0
POPUIATiON PER PHYSICIMN           73804.7      51380.1/h 35896.6/h             3297.8                    8540.4
POPULATION PER NlERSIt:G PERSON         ..      70528.0/h 13513.67-             4929.3                    4829.4
POPtLATICIN PER HOSPIAL BED
TOTAL                             8294.1       6938.4    6398.5/e             1100.4                    1047.5
UFBAN                              286.8        329.1      360.Oe             301.3                     651.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..              5815.7                    2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HO2SPITAL RED            ..           ..         ..                   ..                     27.0
ROUSING
AVEARUE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOIAL                                 ..          5.5
;RFPAS                               5.4           ..         ..
RIV&AL                                ..           ..         .                    ..
AYF:RACF NIMBER OF PERSONS PE  ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                2.0           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
ACCFSS TCo ELECTRICITY (PEFCENT
OF  L' .NGS)
TuIAL                                 ..           ..
LEB AN                              30.2           ..         ..
RURAL                                 . .          ..         .                    ..



-20-                                                            APNNEy I
Page. 2
lA.N. '. 3A
_ FA.: rS - SR U..... -'. _ICATOUT ' ATA SH'RT
NE.'A'.                         NEFERENCO G;IO"iS (WEl(,HTED AVFRACTES
-  N'rT P -ENT ESTIMA7T F)
MOST RECENT            LOW l101<-'1            MIDDLE INCO'(E
1960  /b    1970 ,/b ESTLMA-TE /b       ASIA 5 PACIFIC          ASIA 1 PACIFIC
r Dc AU TN
EEL : Al ''..U E:NRLILMEl   8RATICS
PR &LR,A2    'l                      IC 10.0      26.0        88.0                 97.4                       96.2
PALL                   19.0         43.0      124.0                 101.0                       99.8
iEiELE                  1.0          8.0       49.0                  87.8                       92.1
SEC'UNARY:   TOTA'.                   6.0          10.0       19.0                 53.0                       37.6
'LALE                  11.0         16.0        30.0                 63.8                       41.1
FEMALE                  2.0          3.0        8.0                  41.3                       34.1
VOCATIONAL FNROL. (5 OF SECOrNDARY)   0.2             2.4        6.8/e                1.7                       20.8
P'API -     FFACLFR PATIO
PRL AKY                              33.3          21.7       32.9/e               37.7                       35.5
SECC:NARY                            32.0             -       24.8/n               20.2                       25.0
AD',LT' LITERLACY FATE (PERCENT)         8.8         14.3       19.0/f               52.1                        73.1
PAS- '.-K CARS FER Tr.OUSAND
PO!'i'.Ai10''                         0.1           0.4/i       ..1.5                                          9.8
RADI4 RC-C_IVERS PER THO;.SAN'
POE-ULAI1L!i                           3.0/1        4.8       17.5                 35.4                      116.5
TV RECES 2' .n ti-R THOUSAND
LAIION                                               ..         ..                  3.2                       37.6
.NEFL'S.P   ("DAILY GENPRAL
I~ ~r'E1 ') CIRCULAT IION PER
T.'fl.r'';AN3 COPULATIO':                0.7          2.4        7.3/f               16.4                        53.7
CRNFERS ANNUIAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..                  3.6                        2.8
LABOR lORE
TOTAi, L.ACT  FORCE (TSTSDS)         4875.1        5536.6    6967.9
FE'    (PERCENT)                     40.5         39.2        39.1                 29.5                       33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                95.v          94.0       93.0                 70.0                       52.2
,I'NUSTRY (PERCENT)                   2.0           2.0        2.0                 15.0                       17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
'iOTAL.                                 51.6         48.8       47.6                 40.0                        38.5
F EMlE                                  41.8         38.6       37.5                 23.8                        26.6
ECOSOF'1C DEPENSSNCY RATIO                 0.8          0.9         1.0                 l.O                         1.1
INCOME ISTRIRhUTION
PEICENT OF PTIVATE INCOiE
RECEIVED BY
HIGFRST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEYOLDS         ..           ..       35.3/e
HIGhEST 20 PERCEN'T Of HOUSEHOLDS    ..              ..       59.2/e
ICWEST 20 FP.RCENT OF  OUSEEROLDS       ..           ..        4.6/e.
LOW'ST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         ..           ..        8.0/.
POVERTY TA.RGET CROUPS
ESTIMA.:TED ABSOLU-TE PCE.ERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..       95.0                133.8                      194.7
IZUR.L                                  ..           ..       45.0                111.1                      155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USCr PER CAPITA)
UbEAN                                   ..           ..         ..                    ..                     178.2
RURAL                                   ..           ..       41.0                    ..                     164.9
EST [.MJED PCYPUL ATION BELOW ABOLU'TE
POVERT'i INCOM1'E LEVEL (PERCENT)
U',.tN                                  ..           ..       55.0/e               43.8                       24.4
RU'rtNL                                 ..           ..       61.0/i.              51.7                       41.1
Not available
Not applicabie.
NOTES
/a   Thi group averages for each Lndicato3 are populatLon-weighted arith=etic means.  Coverage of countries
a.Ong the inddi-itors depends on availabSIlty of data and is not uniform.
/b   LnLeos othori.ae notsd, data for 19cO refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
a1d 1471; and for M.st feceot OotEnste, between 1979 and 198L
c  l9j,  aoA-:JuA1 Erc,ch Irt, 's f,- :971-1.  Id  GCvvrument progrrnn unly:  /e  1977:
'f  I,,-,6 .  /g  1975.  /h  lcrsonr.el ir. goverrgment servi.en only.  /Li  1968.  Zj  1963.
Revised
Septeialser, 1982



-21-                                                                                 Annex I
Page 3
DEFN'IITIONS OF SCIal INDICATORS
Notes   kith-agh the data are droes from uncccet generally judged the =qst authoritati  ngd reliable, it should alto be noted that they vay  -t bh inter-
nathonally co=paroblo beausestof rho lack of standard heed dtftiiliots and concepts cstd by d .ffetent uountritea is collecting the dana  Thei data aee, none-
theless. asoful co deacrtla otdtts of magnituda. indirate ttrendo, and charaecirito certain eujatr diftferences bet=ean roounctres 
fhecrefeteice groups sre (1I the snatccttnry  groupnt lre ubhjacituWorccatrydn(2) ucunttttl ccp  Inuthotrahat highercntraga Ircosttholtihetcountryfgroup
of [ht achj ect couonty 'enuapt Inc '01gb 1 nmeR> Dcl fnptrtoct" grqunvhece a"Middle Iscom Notch Africn atd Middle last' is chosen hbecanse of strongec
socla-calcural aflltutlos) Ino[hecreelrsctc Iron data the unarages art populascc neughteli arithmetic tmacs ton ouch lndhcatoc sod shoet only ohen
eajoroty of tie couccttca in agrocp has data fon chat itoicattr. S itre the ronerage of tcucutrtes onong the hod icacors dayeodu on the anatlahbiiy at dauto
and is not Vuiform. caction msot ht nextlrcsd in relating averages of one indiccstortoanotht r. Thset anerages ace oney husattuc is cotparing the noIse of
onelindicatorar a tct a c amcongthaca rtdry ardpreference groups.
AR.1 (rhoasand s_.ks.)                                                                       Poonlatlo  per Hospital Mad -  total, uthan. and rnrah   - Popclation (total.
Tatal - Totnl  ncrfacs atta cosgctaccg luau  area and irland eaters; 1909 dcat.            u, ban. nd rcral,' diided hy theitr respective nu=er of hospital heds
.ogrrcultaaal - geminarte cf agrcucltnral acsa hoed tempaorlrly or ptr0noaatly              aonolahie In public and yrivate general end spentalized hospital oafd te-
fat crops. paasturs . trket sand hitchan gardens or to lie fauna;g 1909 data.             th. lilitatiar rooters.  Hospitals5 are eutablishRenats permanently staffed
h' at least one physaican. Estahlithoests ptoniding petncipally canto-
CNP PER CAPITA ff591 - TsP per cayits a otieates at cuarrent market prices, cal-               a al rcae ore sot included.  gural hospttais. hweeoer, inrclde health
colored hy taole cantatastan mahod aa b'oric lank utlas 11908-dOf hooks); 1960,              aid =edical teeters noat persatently staffed hy a physitlan (hat hya
19700. and 1900 data.                                                                        m:dirul assistant, torte, nidetle, ent.) vhich affee in-patieetoacooino-
d.;tiat and prooide a hamatd rtnege of medboal factisltis. Poe stutis-
SNERGY COttftL',TIlt PEi CAPiTA - Anncal coq atyrton of coaaerciol energy (coal                r .cai purposes urban hospitoa lsrnlude tWNOs principail/general hospliols,
w                       ~~~~~~~and litgntite, peteolaaa. outural gun and hydto-, ouclear and goathercal tere-         eta rural hospttals, lorsl or ruei'o  hospitals and =edical and sateetity
terlriyf it kilnograss of coal equivalenrt toe capita; 1960, 197U. and 1979                  t.ntttrs.  Speciohleed hospitals are inciuded oely andrer torah.
data.                                                                                     Add=ssiots par laspitol Bed - Total onhate of ad=issioos to or discharges
fzo= hospitals divided hy the eatber of heds.
poPIATIdIM AND VITTAT  STATISTITCS
Total Popalasios. Old-Tear (thousatds) - As of daly 1; 19h0, 1900, and 1900             HOUSli1
$                                 lehan Popuaotlos (parcant of ctatll - tatto tf urhon tc ntota  popalatuon;                  A household ronsisth of a geoup oPf indinidual d)h   shtaiubntedlnn  qstersl
differeat definicicas of urhar oceans un alfect zosparahillty of data                      and teber salt ueals.  A hoarder on lodger say ne any cot he included it
lnl   ou[ish;  19011i7, and 1950 data.                                            ice houssehold for atanisitral yurposes.
Popalaicos Pro]scrions                                                                    Ave-agetctdtabraofpersons per roo=t- tol.curhan, andrural -aneragetae-
Popolation is tear 2000 - Turrosn  poynlaciuc  crojeetont nar hated on 19Sf               h',t of parsons pee root is all nrhas, aod rural occupied ronneotiosal
total populattot by ago sod oat and th-ete  sortaltp said fertility rates.              d:tlelrtgs. respectively .  Dvellings etclude too-parAeontesttttcturestaed
Projactuot parameters for mart:luty rntes co=prissaott[hresnleelsasasst-                onwoccuoled parts.
log hate eopernanry as hItch Inc eaaolng alth  ounstey' n par capita tecolse          ArCCass to iltccricley  (percent at deellings)    total. urban, and rural -
lanaI, and fanala dcfa enyeean.y ntahilizing or 00.1 roars.  Tha para-                 f,nnvertlooal dwellings oath electricity  be loving quaaerter  as tercentage
7esfor foccil icy rate alto hone thlroa lanels ssuaactlg dcrlne in                   o  total. urhat, and rural dvoll ings rospectivnely.
ferstitysornding[orincoacelenel andypaot fuily plaoturg porfortance.
Etch cquncry us ther assign.ed ace of theta does cothinotloos of aorrolity          EDUCA'IbON
and fortulity trends for peaj ertlat purposes.                                        Adyaissed aneolleats hatiot
Stationarcniepalstion-r  oncacln[inary poyalanlonc[hert isno growthosince                  l'rimry schooli-totn:1, tlcrond fetc -fCrosstotal.salaond feeolo
tht himth rate isatqual to tho death cute, and aISD the age structura to-                  anrallaett of all egos or the primary lenel as parceotages of resperctine
melts tonstan,i.  Ihes Ia urn. oede unly after fertiiity  eanos derl oa toi                prcsary school-ago popalatioos; cerail1y inrcldes childtes aged 6-li
thearapiacemestlenel of  nutn etirepaoduatiannaste,thenreach generstitn                    yearshbutadycsted for differenotlengbthsofprlary educatioo;,foe
of anmlee replaces itself enactcly.  The stationary population sloe eo                     cuounteiesaclti universal educartionaerolimesnt say exreed 100 percent
ettimered on rho hoots of the projertad chararrorist Ito of the populst:oc                 siote tome pupils are helov or ahove the offioial school ago.
is the year 2D00, and the rare of decline of feetollcry roat  to replace-               Becandarc school - total, sale and fe=ale - doeputed as those; sevnodoty
mett leool.                                                                                educatione requires a1 least four years of appronad primacy inastaeclion;
Tear satoinnary population is reachod - The year chat stationary pcpalancon                  pronides general, nocatlotol. or eeacher teaaitasg iestructions foe pupils
tier w111 ha rearhed.                                                                      usually of 12 to 10 years of age; correspondenre courses ate geserally
rPeulathon Density                                                                             excluded.
Pa  o.i.  - Old-your yopulariut par aquace hKilnoetee  Ill0 hertaresa of                 Torational enrollient (parrent of serondarpf - VIocational iunsitat ions
total area; 1900. '9701 ean  tqo  data.                                                  itclude technicol, industrial, or other progrt.=s ehich operate independ-
no q.t. agriculr2ral hood - Compated as alone for agricclraral land                   ently or as deporit7nis of secondalry institatiens.
cnly; 19103, 19701 sand 1919 data.                                                     YPtil-teurher ratciq - primary, and secondary - Total stud eets aenol led ia
Populatron Age Strucrure foercectl - fhil<Iceo  (T-lb rearsl , =orking-ags (1S-              prisaty and serondary lenels dinided by numethst of teachers in the
64 yeara), and reair ad (65 years and ovcr) as yerreoeageo oh mid-year pnpc-               corraspnnding lerain.
Iation; 1960, 1970, and 1900 data.                                                       Odolt literacy rare (portent) - literate adults failea to rsod ond veite)
Population Granth kore lpercenr) -  ntotl - Annual grnwth rates of total old-                asayperrcetage of tutal adrit pouaytiaon aged 10 years and onar.
tear populatuon toe 1950-60, 1960-70, ana hOOf-ti.
Population Growth fate (ptrerct): - uebon -Anusel grooth rates of  eurban 2pu-          COtSLtfPTI0t
alatins fur 19M0-h0, '9h0-70, and 1970-30.                                              Patsenger hart (per rhousaod pnpclathon) - Passenger crus rcqsrise merto
Crude Mirth Rate (yet thous3nd) - A nusl lion lIrtbo par thoassnd of mid-year                ears seating less shun eight peesons; etc ludos ashulooces, heatrses and
populotion; 1960. l97T, sord 1990 daura,                                                   tIlltory nehirlrs.
Crude Death Oats a lyr thousand) - dAnn_al teatrhs per thqussnd  of mud-year               ta dio geceiners (pererhousand pepuluelool - All types of rseivenrs for radio-
popaulticn; 1960, 1970, and 1000 data.                                                     Brnadcasts no ganatal publlic pee theusand of poyslation; eneludes an-
least Rspraduction Rate-uAvecage cutbaral1 daughters a vo=ma  sill bearu1n                  1lccacsed  ereerers is counteies and ic years ehen registratian of eadio
hesronormlreproductiine porcodifshe enpartoorsa praesetasge-opecificufee-                  2etses h5ineffect; dasftaco ecent years esysnothnbe oparable since
tilhity rates; usu ally fine-your anerages ending is 19h0, 1900. and 1900.                 nest countr its aholished licensing.
Paeily Planning-Acceptors.Aatnnoal(thousand.) -hAnnualnumber ofaraycetors                  Tt' Receivers(persthoussndypopulstion)  -ITVreceinerstforhesadnastito
of hirth-control aenices uoder auspicss of nstuonsl family planning peogros.               general public psr thousand ypopulaton, encludesoonlireasad TO treneiers
5Anhly Platnoilg -Uers (percent af sArriod aqnmea  - rercentage of sAerriad                  to cosntries and is years when registrartion of TO sets eat in tffect.
comet of child-Iesrlngtsge (15-44 yesrsl oho use hirth-ncutra I devicesito               teospaper Cirrulatlee free thousand popuaation) - Shoes she aneaogs cur-
all carrIed snowstni soose age group.                                                      colosloo of "daily geneeai interenst easpaper", defined astaye peridical
FOO) AND YUTRITION                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uhtihatiot denozted Primarily no recordIng geoer:l nevs.  In is considered
Index of Toed Prodaction per Capita flSkO-0l10a10   - Index of panrcapitoasnanng          Cite7a Annual Atttndance per Capita per Tsar-DBated on thle nsober of
producrion of all food notatodisiet.  Yrqduction ourcludes teed and feed and               tickets told during the ytat. including ad=issians to drote- in cise0sa
is on ralendar year basiu.  Comntodutlas corer primoy goods lo.g' sugurnana                .nd sahile units.
icsteadof sugar])vhich are edibls andacontainnutciaotu  es.g  coffaee od
sea ate secluded).  kg gregste production of each country is based on                 10001. FORCEf
national avterage producer price eeugita; 1961-65. 1900, and l9OS  data.                Total Labor Forre (rhosuoads) - E nosictAlly octine personss. inclludig
Per capcro supply of calories (parenre    f relutrasanrol - Cospated feo=                   armed forces and uneeplyoyd hat exoluding housevine s, students. etc.,
atargy aqainalest of nor food supplies analaobls in cruntry peer aputa                     notating yapulation of all ages.  Definitione  be Yraelus notnities ore
par day.  ananlhlrlensp?lies co=prise do7sosth  prodactuan, inlpurns lres                 rot coepsrable; 1960. 1970 ond 19bO dais.
euporns, end changes ca stork.  Net scyplles snrclde animal feed, seeds,                  female (percent) - resale lahor forre as percentage of total Ishor farce.
quantlieiesused is fond proreescong. ard losses in distrihution.  goeGuile-               ugrlcaliute f(percent) - Labor foece in furelung. forastey. huoting and
mesi  vetre est leaned by Fur based 00 physiological seeds for normal acic-                  fishing os percentage of torah bIebr forte, 1960, 1970 and 1900 gala.
city ard health tonssdoring enourensentul tenperaluce. hody veighes. age                  Industty (percent) - Labot forcin =o iring. noestruct toe, sannfarnariog
#                        ~~~~~~~and sex dIserlhation of ppoparueston  and allqving 1f percent toe sauna as            and alectricitoy, cater and gas as perrentage nf tonal laohr foec5a
huosehold leoel; 1911-h, 1900 snd 1910 coca.                                                 1960, 190P  and 1900 data.
Par con Inn supply of peotot (grass per day) - yrotein contest of par capita              yatttclpatlon tare Iperteot)  - total, tmale, ad femle-Partit ipatiaon or
=etsupplyyof food persay.  Netisuyplytoffood isdefinedo5aboene.  at-                      acrtiely rstes arsecoxputedasrtotal, eals.and femelelahorforce as
quhirments  for all countries  eatabisuhed hy 1S1A ptovide fan Otnisul                     I ercestages of total, made and resale populatioo of all a ges reopeeti teey;
Tl-osanres ti 60 m If s - f total prole- r per lay and h0 gras  of atonal and               O60, 1970, and 1980 drat.  These are hated an Ill's partdiipation rates
pulse  protein,  of ohich  0 are-na shoulr he onuma preo-ti.  Tbeta stood-                 -efleinlg ago-tao atrurture of the populatios, and lotg thai teend.  0
ardsasre loverthanethosenfoflisrats oatntotl protein anad 23 romof                         aevesrlete5 are frnmootlnonal sucs
*                        ~~~~~~~anImal protein as as avterage foe the vorld. peoposed by FAO in the Third          E ctosin Dependency istio - Ratio of proplstionaunder 11 and 65 and qner
forld Pond Survey; 1961-5I, 1970 and 1977 dana.                                            0 s the total lahor forc.
per capita peotein supply feo= atheal and pal ss-PFrtatin surely oR feed de-
rinad frut aoisas and  pulses be grsam  par day,  1961-65, 1900  and 1970 data.       ItIfi   Di-=ISTRIBDTION
Ch7ld (ages 1-SO Dtoth hoat  (par shausoof) - Annul deaths per thoiu_nd io                 Parentage of Prinate Incro      (both is rash  and khed) - kereived by riehest
age group14years,torchildrenintbissgegroup, forsostrdeel                goun-              i percent,richest20perenet-,poorest 2D percent. sndpooestl 40percent
tales date deeved Iron life t      -dles; 10, 1970 sod 1901 dana.                          ,f households.
Life Expertancy at Dirth (years) - Average nutber of years of life remaining               in', foelowing eslleaneu are nary approaleate   osreasts of paveety lenels,
an hirth; 1960. 1970 oaf 1900 dana.                                                        ted should he  interpreted v:tl  considerable outio,
POaPULATIO alNepgaie(perthausand)-Annualdeathsoffifantsunder  eneyr                       tszimeledAbsolueoPoertylro Level (USf perr cpiraf - uebanS  ad rceal -
uf age per thousaed line births; 1960, 1910 sod 19B0 data.                                 .ksolute poverty incosta leel i0sthot incoste leyl below ehieh a esisal
Access to Safe Water (retreat of ynpulaf:.cnl - tonal, arbao, and rural - Nu=-              tvunrttiooally adequate diet plus essestial sot-food requiresitnts is eat
her  of people (total..   eban, a  rnral' eith reasonale aieerssn o             safe       .fhfordable.
eater supply (unelades treated surf artevaters nor untreated bstsnnaonfamieoted          Es maiwted Relatsv Poverty Itnst t5 eyel (1SS pee eapita) - ueban aed ruals  -
ester sorb aa that tea= pronected horeholes, springs, and sanitary cells) as               .total relatsveceoerty iniome leytI is one-thied of average pee uapite
perceslages of their raspective  populations.  In on atban areoapapblic                    tlersosal it-seoe  of th  coastery.  Uthas leoel is derieed from the aural
foaetain or seasdeost lrortedenot smrsthan200etersr ahouseoybe                             .evele vth adjuftstfqtf-highrer cst of biting inaurbnseres.
conssidered as being ovihbin reasongble arisess of than hause,  Inoraeoh areas          Catimated Population Belee Absolute Peverty hncoqe Levei (perenei) -serban
reaasonale  a          1e 90s eould itm 0y thee the hoacecufe or teshers of the household  tod ruael - Percent of populatioe fnrban and tl) wis are "absoluts
do sot bate to sptnd a dispropoetiontte poet af the day  is fetehing the                   too"  .
f s m-ilyd' s va tee ue nedo,                                                                                              t
gassess to EntreEs Ditseasel (Pircenet of eeotalalioe) - tntai, urban, sand rural -
Nutberof peoples(total.,urban. and rsral) asesedhbyascrtet disposaleas
percentage s of theire respetaleis populations. becrets disposal say includs
tis col l-a man  dispasel,  with o- -eftima  treagmsse, af -  ad e so nnets
and -aste-wasee by eatae-boeee systesa oe the use of pit p      1isia sod sltti-
lee  ihatalle-t-oes.
Ppeelantes per Pheailesn - Population dni.ded bY a=ee  of peantialog physi-                                                   Rtsono i  and Rtcl Date Divirion
canta  qomltf td fren a                                                                                    1adloal school et anineertit  leadl.  Rgettomoi .Roipafs and PeajesaeIss Depatti
fp    tiellyg    - pee  Retains Person - Populastion Sinidted by  sthee at peaotisfSg                                                      fay 1N9d2
male ansd female oredeate esteem,  savisesant sessd   pesctifat al PI ts P od
seefleg asitlilalaris.



-22-
ANT.EX T
Page 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS - NEPA1
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1981:  US$156
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1980                                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTT, 1960-1979
(%, constant prices)
USS Mln. 
at Market Prices                  1,989       100.0                                     3.1
Gross Domestic Investment                268        13.5
Gross Domestic Saving                    148         7.4
Current Account Balance (exc.
official grants)                        -72        -3.6
Exports of Goods, NFS                    241        12.1
Imports of Goods, NFS                    361        18.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979/80
VTaluoe Added
Value Added               Labor Force a/            Per Worker
T]S$ Mln.      %              Mln.       F                 11S$
Agriculture                            1,065        57               6.9       93                155
Industry                                 251        14               0.1        2             1,696
Services                                 543        29               0.4        5             1,468
Total/Average                    1,859      10                7.4      100                251
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
Rs. Mln.
% of GDP
1978/79       1979/80       1980/81        1981/82       1979/80
Current Receipts                        1,791.6       1,852.9        2,403.9         ,900.9         8.9
Current Expenditures                      982.1       1,055.4        1,263.6       1,588.9          4.9
Current Surplus                           809.5          797.5       1,140.3       1,312.0          4.0
Capital Expenditure                     1,961.5       2,293.2        2,726.1       4.032.9         12.4
External Assistance (Net)                 989.4       1,317.8        1,531.1       2,024.0          6.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1978      1979      1980      1981         1982
mid-April
(Million Ps outstanding mid-,July)
Money and Quasi Money                                 3,772    4,512       5,285    6,308          7,332
Bank Credit to Government                               966    1,129    1,258       1,263          1,785
Bank Credit to Public Enterprise                        869    1,080    1,131       1,401          1,292
Bank Credit to Private Sector                         1,072    1,332    1,917    2,498             2,641
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                       19.3     21.1       22.1      22.2
General Price Index (1974/75 = 100)                    113.3    117.3      128.7    145.9          159.6 (April)
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                                     11.2       3.5       9.8      13.4           9.2 (April on April)
Bank Credit to Government                               28.9      16.9      11.4       0.4          42.4
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises                       70.1     24.3        4.7      23.9           3.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector                          24.1      24.3      43.9       30.3          10.2
Note:  All conversions to IS dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
a/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
not available



-23-
ANNEX I
Page 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND lAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 1980/81 a/
US$ Mln. 
1978/79    1979/80    1980/81                                                            _-
(Millions US$)
Exports, f.o.b. b/                       108.5        95.1       134.4              Agricultural products                   100.7       75.1
Imports, c.i.f. b/                      244.7        294.3       370.2             Manufactures                             33.4        24.9
Trade Balance                      135.2      -199.2      -235.8                  Total                               134.1      100.0
Services, net                             65.6        91.6        93.1
of which:  Tourism                     41.8         54.0        64.5             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980
US$ Mln.
Transfers, net                            30.1        36.1
of which:  Private Remit.               25.5        29.6        40.4             Public Debt, inc. guaranteed                233.9
Indian Excise Fund          3.0         3.1         4.8              Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Current Account Balance            -39.7       -71.7       -96.4              Total Outstanding & Disbursed              233.9
(exc. grants)
Official Grants                           42.9        63.2        71.7
Official Capital, net                     36.0        48.1        52.8
Private Capital, net                       9.7       -37.4       -11.9              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1980/81 c/
Change in Reserves                 -48.9        -2.2       -16.2              Public Debt, inc. guaranteed               1.9
(- Increase)
Gross Reserves (mid-July)                179.8       187.0       192.5
Net Reserves                             151.0       153.2       174.9              IBRD/IDA LENDING, (June 1982)(Millions USS)
IBRD        IDA
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports of which:  Petroleum           16.7         30.2         NA              Outstanding & Disbursed                             121.4
Exports of which:  Petroleum             --          --          --              Undisbursed                                ----      205.2
Outstanding, incl. undisbursed        326.6
RATE OF EXCHANGE
From October 1975                  From March 20, 1978
through March 20, 1978             through September 19, 1981                  Since September 19, 1981               Since December 17, 198
US$1.00 = NRs 12.5                 US$1.00 = NRs 12.00                         US$1.00 = NRs 13.20                    US$1.00 = NRs 14.30
NR 1.00 = US$  0.08                NR 1.00 = US$ 0.083                         NR 1.00 = US$ 0.076                    MR 1.00 = US$ 0.070
a/ Customs basis.
b/ Payments basis.
c/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not applicable
South Asia Programs Department
September 1982



-24-                          ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1982) /a
US$ million
(net of cancellations)
No.    Year       Borrower              Purpose                      IDA    Undisbursed
Five credits fully disbursed                                        39.0
397   1973   Kingdom of Nepal   Telecommunications II               5.5       0.2
470   1974   Kingdom of Nepal   Water Supply and Sewerage          11.8        1.8
505   1974   Kingdom of Nepal   Settlement                          6.0        3.1
600   1977   Kingdom of Nepal   Kulekhani Hydroelectric            14.8        2.8
617   1976   Kingdom of Nepal   Rural Development                   8.0        3.4
654   1976   Kingdom of Nepal   Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater    9.0            0.2
659   1976   Kingdom of Nepal   Technical Assistance                3.0       0.2
704   1977   Kingdom of Nepal   Second Water Supply & Sewerage  8.0            3.0
705   1977   Kingdom of Nepal   Industrial Dev. Corporation         4.0       2.0
730   1977   Kingdom of Nepal   Second Highway                     17.0       4.2
772   1978   Kingdom of Nepal   Technical Education                 5.7        3.9
799   1978   Kingdom of Nepal   Telecommunications III             14.5      12.7
812   1978   Kingdom of Nepal   Irrigation (Sunsari-Morang)    30.0           21.5
856   1978   Kingdom of Nepal   Irrigation (Narayani Zone)         14.0       10.1
939   1979   Kingdom of Nepal   Second Rural Development           11.0       10.9
1008   1980   Kingdom of Nepal   Community Forestry                 17.0       16.5
1055   1980   Kingdom of Nepal   Irrigation (Mahakali)              16.0      15.3
1059   1980   Kingdom of Nepal   Third Water Supply & Sewerage  27.0          26.1
1062/c 1980   Kingdom of Nepal   Grain Storage                       6.2       6.0
1093/c 1981   Kingdom of Nepal   Irrigation (Babai)                  3.5        1.6
1100/c 1981   Kingdom of Nepal   Agricultural Extension & Res.  17.5           12.9
1101/c 1981   Kingdom of Nepal   Hill Food Production                8.0        6.7
1191/c 1982   Kingdom of Nepal   Cottage & Small Industries          6.5        6.5
1198/c 1982   Kingdom of Nepal   Second Education                   14.3       14.3
1260/c 1982   Kingdom of Nepal   Petroleum Exploration
Promotion                        9.2        9.2
Total,                                               326.5      195.1
of which has been repaid                             0.1
Total now outstanding /b                             326.4
Total now held by IDA                                326.4
Total Undisbursed                                               195.1
/a  No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
/b  Prior to exchange adjustments.
Ic  IDA 6th Credits, Principal amounts shown in U.S. dollar equivalent at date
of negotiations, as shown in President Reports, and Disbursement amounts
at the rate of SDR on September 30, 1982.



-25-                            ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of September 30, 1982)
Amount ($ millions)
Year    Obligor           Type of Business       Loan      Equity      Total
1975   Soaltee Hotel      Hotel                   2.7        0.4       3.1
(Pvt) Ltd.
1982   Nepal Orind        Mine and process        5.9         -         5.9
Magnesite        magnesite ore
(Private)
Limited                                  8.6       0.4        9.0
Total commitments now held by IFC          8.2       0.4        8.6
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 397  Telecommunications Projec: II $5.5 million Credit of
June 20, 1973; Effective Date: September 11, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Procurement for switching equipmeat was initially delayed due to
difficulties with the selected bidder after award decision and the need for
rebidding.  The procurement for this item has subsequently been combined in
one tender with procurement for a similar equipment under the third project.
Credit No. 470  Water Supply and Sewerage Project $11.8 million Credit of
May 8, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
After a long mobilization period the project is now nearing comple-
tion with 85% of the credit disbursed. Because of delays in completing the
sewerage component, due to physical and contractural difficulties, the clos-
ing date had to be extended by 6 months to June 30, 1983. This was also
occasioned by delays in delivery of pipes for the remaining water supply
component. The British experts, funded by the UK Overseas Development
Administration to help WSSB operate its water supply facilities in Kathmandu
valley, have now completed their assignment and departed Nepal.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
projects in execution and, in particular, to report any problems which
are being encountered and the action being taken. They should be used
in this sense on the understanding that they do not purport to present
a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-26-
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 505  Settlement Project $6.0 million Credit of August 14, 1974;
Effective Date: February 20, 1975; Closing Date; July 15,
1982
The project has been closed on scheduled date, i.e. July 15, 1982.
The project failed to achieve revised targets for land clearing and settle-
ment; only 66% of forest land had been cleared and 44% of families settled by
the c:Losing date. The project suffered from shift in Government policy on
timber export, and from implementation problems relating to timber extraction
and land use.  The Government is being consulted regarding cancellation of
the remaining balance.
Credit No. 600 Kulekhani Hydroelectric Project; $40.8 million Credit of
January 9, 1976; Effective Date: May 18, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Reservoir impounding commenced on June 9, 1981. When headrace tunnel
was tested with water for first time on November 8, 1981, water leakages were
observed, which on subsequent investigation, were found due to inadequate
grouting. Immediate rectification work was started and a panel of experts
was also set up by the Bank to suggest remedial steps. The additional works
have been undertaken. With the approval of the panel of experts, the tunnel
was refilled with water and Unit No.1 was commissioned on March 13, 1982.
Since that date, all restrictions on the use of electricity in the central
grid system of Nepal have been removed. Unit No. 2 was commissioned on March
29, 1982.
The present cost estimate is $119.93 million, including taxes and
duties but excluding any claims by contractors and additional works. The
foreign portion of the cost estimate is $98.39 million. The Government of
Nepal is evaluating the claims to work out the total cost.
Credit No. 617 Rural Development Project; $8.0 million Credit of April 30,
1976; Effective Date: July 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Until about the end of 1980, implementation progress had been satis-
factory for most of the components (except health, education and livestock
development) and nearly 70-80% of physical targets had been achieved.
However, implementation was unsatisfactory during 1981 due to (a) inadequate
local funding of the project, (b) poor management and coordination of proiect
activities, (c) inadequate control and supervision of the activities of the
Panchayats involved in construction work, and (d) the inability of the Minis-
try of Local Development to provide leadership in matters of programming and
implementing activities of the various line ministries. Since early 1982,
the situation has improved with HMG having released the required funds and
administrative action to improve implementation having been initiated.



- 27 -
ANNEX IT
Page 4
Credit No. 654 Bhairawa - Lumbini Groundwater Project; $9.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date:  November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
55 of the 64 planned tubewells, whici. are to irrigate 7,600 ha, have
been constructed and drilling is nearly completed.  Progress on the construc-
tion of the canal distribution network is slow due to the weakness of local
contractors. However, all civil works contracts have been awarded and the
project is scheduled for completion by mid-1983. The follow-up Stage II
project would concentrate on ensuring effective operation and maintenance of
the infrastructure built under Stage I.
Credit No. 659 Technical Assistance Project $3.0 millicn Credit of
September 16, 1976; Effective Date: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Four subprojects are ongoing and include: the Marsyangdi Technical
Review Panel, second phase of the Cash Crop Development, second phase of
Electrical Accessories, and Primary School Mapping. These are proceeding
satisfactorily. Eleven of the subprojects financed under the technical
assistance credit have been completed and coatributed to che pipeline of
bankable projects in Nepal.
Credit No. 704 Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $8.0 million
Credit of May 27, 1977; Effecive Date:  February 28, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Slowness in rne:ruiting consultants Ceiayed declaring the credit
effective and, as a result, project implementation was hampered. Procurement
of materials is now well advanced although suppliers, to whom awards were
made for pressure pipes, have had difficulty in meeting promised delivery
schedules. These problems have been overconme, enabling a construction start
at the various sites. The contractor engagEd on building the sewerage com-
ponent under this project is the same as the one having difficulties under
Credit 470-NEP with a similar contract. Should delays continue, the sewer
contract may need to be rescinded and relet.
Credit No. 705 Nepal Industrial Developmenl: Corporation Project; $4.0
million Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date: February 17,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Since March 31, 1982 (latest date oE subloan authorization) NIDC has
fully committred the 84.0 milli on Credit.  Close supervision is being carried
out to ensure further improvements in NIDC's operations and implementation of
subprojects ala disbursements  -rd   -he Credit within the closing date.



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 730  Second Highway Project; $17.0 million Credit of October 19,
197Tffective Date:  December 23, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The projecL is now moving steadily towards a successful conclusion,
though there remain several areas where improved performance is required.
Procurement, which has been a source of considerable delay in the past, is
now virtually complete.  The work on the Thankot-Naubise road pavement has
now been completed.  Much supervisory attention is currently being given to
the Tulsipur feeder road in an effort to improve performance on a few con-
tracts. Disbursements, which currently stand at 75% of appraisal estimates,
are expected to improve substantially over the next year since the major
project component has been completed.
Credit No. 772  Technical Education Project; $5.7 million Credit of
April 14, 1978; Effective Date: July 11, 1978; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
The project, which provides new facilities for technician training at
the Institute of Enginee-ing in Kathmandu, will be completed by June 1983.
Good progress has been made with equipment procurement, furniture procurement
and part of the civil works.
However, one contractor on the site has failed to achieve target
dates for construction, partly due to shortage of materials, but mainly due
to overcommitment of labor and machines on other contracts.  Civil works are
now expected to be completed by June 1983. Educational objectives, espe-
cially teaching quality improvements, which had been jeopardized by student
strikes, are more likely to be achieved now that the new Vice Chancellor of
the University has adopted a more resolute approach to students and student
problems.
Credit No. 799  Third Telecommunications Project $14.5 million Credit of
AugUst 22, 1978; Effective Date:  February 27, 1979;
Cl osing Date: june 30, 1984
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. The earth
station for satellite communication and the international telex exchange
(both financed by ODA of UK) have been completed and commissioned. Procure-
ment under the IDA credit is also progressing satisfactorily. About US$12.2
million of the credit has been committed.



-29-
ANNEX II
Tage 6
(redit No. 812  Sunsari-Morang Ir.rigation an!! Drainage DeveIcym_e P_Froject
$30 million Credit of July 7. 1978; Effective Date:
November 30, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
In July 1980, a landslide in the catahment area caused a major flood
in the Kosi river, causing a considerable erosion and endangering the Chatra
Main Canal. Emergency flood protection works were carried out. Investiga-
tions for the design of headreach works to improve the water supply to and
distribution within the main canal have been completed.  The ICB process for
the construction of the headreach improvements and irrigation and drainage
works in about 12,000 ha has been completed; bids have been evaluated and a
contract award has taken place, Project implementation has fallen about two
years behind schedule.
Credit No. 856 Narayani Zone Irrigation - Stage II Project
$14.0 million Credit of November 27, 1978; Effective
Date: January 8, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is proceeding steadily, although slower than
anticipated. The major constraint is the weakness of local contractors.
Construction is now on-going in all six irrigation blocks.  Most civil works
and equipment contracts have been awarded, and construction is progressing
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 939  Second Rural Development Prcject - Mahakali Hills $11.0
million Credit of August 9, 1979; Effective Date:
Januarv 15, 1980; Closing DEte:  February 28, 1985
Project progress since credit effectiveness has been negligible due
to:  (a) delays in setting up and staffing of project management;  (b) delays
in constructing project headquarters; (c) remoteness of the project area and
communication difficulties; (d) dislocation created by the devastating earth-
quake in the project area during June 1980; and (e) delay in the release of
budgeted funds. Recently, some civil works have started, and a considerable
amount of initial planning and design work for major construction work under
the project has been completed. Conseguent:y, implementation is likely to
pick up pace.
Credit No. 1008 Community Forestry Development and Training Project $17.0
million of May 22, 1980; Effective Date:  September 19,
1980; Closing Date. June 3(0, i986
The Project is progressing well.  An effective administrative
organization has been established into which the UNDP/FAO technical assis-
tance team has been integrated. Most planting targets have been achieved.
Motivation and Education, and Monitoring and Evaluation programs are being
efficiently conducted.  Project committees have been set up and are function-
ing. Architects have been appointed for construction of training facilities
at Pokhara, Hetaura and Kathmandu.  The designs for the Kathmandu Training



13-                          ANNEX II
Page 7
Wing have been started by the  Wra4rrni  Wing and Tribhuvan University.  The
urban fuelwood study has been completeC,;,
Credit No. 1055 Mahakali Irrigat-ion Prorect (Stage I); $16.0 million
Credit of September 29, 1980; Effective Date:  Februarv 27,
1981; Closing Date! December 31, 1985
Contracts for undertaking tie survey and engineering designs have
been awarded to local engineerin'g con,sultants. Most of the work is progress-
ing satisfactorily. ICB tenders for the procurement of the project's equip-
ment and vehicles requirements have been invited.  The project area has been
reduced by about 20%, because (i) inaccurate maps were used, and (ii) HMG
decided to put restrictions on forest cloning.
Credit No. 1059 Third Water SUUply andl Se-erage Project; $27.0 million
Credit of September 29j 1980; Effective Date: August 27,
1981; ClosinQ Datei  December 31, 1985
The credit was declared effective August 27, 1981, about 9 months
after the original effectiveness date- Consultants, appointed by WSSB, using
the experience gained on Creditls  04 -NEP and 470-NEP quickly produced biddirng
documents which have allowed early awaard of certain materials contracts.
Final design of civil works is well underway and contracts are being grouped
for efficient implementation.
Credit No. 1062 Grain Storage Proiect; $6.2 million Credit of January 14,
1981; Effective Date:  July 31, 1981; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
Engineering staff for the project have been engaged and implementa-
tion work commenced. The project study on marketing is completed, and the
one on future storage and processing needs is well underway. Consultants
have been engaged to assist Nepv    od Corporation (NFC) in management,
finance and quality control. Nl stL-rced last season with primary procure-
ment on a trial basis.
Credit No. 1093 Babai Irriga    -.-iginee-ing Project; $3.5 million Credit
of March 265 _98i_ Effective Date:  June 5, 1981; Closing
Date: December 3i, 1983
Consultants were contracted in May 1981, and project implementation
is proceeding on schedule   The detailed design work is under way.  Pre-
qualifications for the constructicon of- project works are being processed.



-31-                           ANNEX II
Page 8
Credit No. 1100 Agricultural Extension and Research Project; $17.5 million
Credit of April 6, 1981; Effective Date: July 8, 1981;
Closing Date: July 15, 1987
The Project Coordinator is in position. Orientation training for
Agricultural Development Officers, Subject Matter Specialists, Junior Tech-
nicians, Junior Technical Assistants and Panchayat Level Agricultural Assis-
tants, has been completed in the first two project districts (Jhapa and
Nawalparasi) and field work has started.
Professional staff recruitment and progress of civil works is slow.
The first year's supply of fertilizer has been received. Tenders have been
floated for the second year's supplies.
The Technical Assistance Agreement has been signed and the four
consultants have finished the first phase of their assignments.
The overall progress of the project is considered satisfactory.
Credit No.1101 Hill Food Production Project; $8.0 million Credit of
April 6, 1981; Effective Date: May 28, 1981; Closing Date:
July 15, 1987
The project was activated by the appointment of the project cocr-
dinator in the summer of 1981, but HMG budget was not available until
November. Existing szaff have received orientation and training in extension
methodology.  Consultants for technical assisLnace have been appointed and
they have impleme-ited the f-rst phase of their pr-ran.  The  'rsc s. ipmen-
of fertilizer under ' ' 3ro ect has bee:- dLi.- 1Lu_d  =d te!   s ai  icw out
for the second. Livestock and irrigation activities and construction. of
agricultural service centers are lagging, but the project is making satisfac-
tory progress.
Credit No.1191 Cottage and Small Industries Project; $6.5 million Credit
of March 9, 1982; Effective Date: July 9, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
HMG complied with all conditions, anid the Credit was declared effec-
tive on July 9, 1982. Staffing and training for nearly all implementing
agencies have been completed. The advisor for the credit component has been
fielded, and other long term consultants, financed under the UNDP portion of
the project, are expected to arrive in the second quarter of FY83. Trained
Cottage and Small Industr- officers of the i:hree banks have been posted to
key branches3 and commitmen's under the credit component have begun.



ANNEX II
-32--                           Page 9
Credit No.1198 Second Education Project; $14.3 million Credit of April 7,
1982; Effective Date: July 23, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1988
The project, which will provide a new technician and trade training
institution in Pokhara in the Western Region of Nepal, was declared effective
on July 23, 1982 having fulfilled two conditions of credit effectiveness,
within 90 days of signing. These concerned the availability of the site to
Commence construction and the signing of a technical assistance agreement.
The project unit (PIU) has been established and nearly all PIU staff have
been appointed.
Credit No.1260 Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project; $9.2 million Credit
of July 9, 1982; Effective Date: September 30, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation started under an advance from the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF). The credit was declared effective on October 1,
1982. Contracts for geophysical consultancy and the seismic survey have been
awarded and field work is progressing.



-33-
NEPAL
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project:
12 months
(b) Project prepared by:
Agricultural Projects Services Center with the assistance
of FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
(c) First presentation to the Bank G:roup and date of the first
Bank mission to consider the project:
September 1980
February 1981
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission:
May 1982
(e) Completion of negotiations:
December 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
June 1983
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
(a) HMGN shall establish the Project Coordination Committee
and two Sub-Committees (draft DCA, Section 3.02(a) and
Part A of Schedule 5 and para 52); and
(b) HMGN shall establish the high level committee for recommending
the price to be paid to farmers for different grades of
tobacco and the price at which tobacco should be sold to
JCF (draft DCA, Section 3.02(b) and Part B of Schedule 5
and para 48).
(Both these conditions have been fulfilled.)






'/,\ ,/-.R820                                                 840                                               N  EPAL
K+ rv t;  <.                                                       CASH CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
,/ \ ,/XJ.i<.   HUMLA                                                                                                       PROJECT DISTRICTS
,_' DARCHULA\.          5                      y   i,,)                                                                              _       Sugarcane
t 5'9                                           f                              /      -     \+        ~                                   o C   H   I  N   A  Tobacco
*   BAJHANG                              MUGU                                                                                           Sericulture
BAITAOS-s              /BAJURA                      - ,5
B A I T A D) I I--,                                  ¢L      v'+                                                                           =       Oils    
j~~~~~~   >,  '\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oilseeds
D      H U DAL IKOT                             JU JUMLA    .        DOL PA                                                                           Crop Research Stations
DT ACHHAM\CGngo
,KANCHANPJK               9   -\DAILEKH   j  i1AJARKOT  /   \                              .   (j MUSTANGJ<                                                   Tobacco
/~~URKHBT)           ~ (f 5,MAD                                                                                    O Isee
KAILALI                 ) .          A    RUKUM                                                                                          OilseFSe
~,F-~K   /-(MANANGScrcn
_  ,       \  ~~SURKHET i             .      \J           s        / r    
BARDIYA  Y                                                                         NL A  KASII')
\-~~~~                                                         ~         ~~ ,  I  . .  -.HNd gB VNwKO  PLo    O  K  
*ROIPA                                    Pokara 
-28".                                                                                   i Gr                              i    ct        RASUWA   X-.                                                                28s-
BANKE ~        ~        ANGLIS    .,y4,
V                        T~~~~~HANCH                                      *O
DHA     .NA   C-   t51NDU   .*4J%          * < - D       9  S NKHWASA              Z
InfernatioalN.                                  KANCI. boundaries                                                                                   Q .    '*xTALJN
j,          '7~\PAHADIG-  -                           OKALHU
Kilom      Dreters 0   50           100          1540 200                                                                       7 /  (iqn duINDlSUL    )K HUWOTAANS °BH CA2TS                            (
Mites 0                    50                   100         K    B                   NIW I              A                         _}
his mop bs been prepared by the World Bark s staff eociosirely for the csriienice  I    N;s, A                                        .                                 >        %  tMRUANDEH  rLH
of the readers of the report to which ra is attached The denominations used and the                                                           -       S5,,, ! ., *iF APTfARIs
boundaries shown on thrs mop do not imply, on tbe port of the World danh And its                                                                                 I A  A  I  ST   I /SUNSARI/ j     J H APA   ( APFU
affiliotes, any judgment oin the legal statos of any terrntury or any endorsemeiit ni               ~~YS(i                                                                                     *                  _
acceptance of such   i82In4°rndaries                                                                                      -                                                                                    ° A
820- 0                                                          __D 8A
N   D   I       _________A___MORAN______________________ L.a






IBRD 16604R
814             -                                                                                '                               A       NFERUARY 19RY1
I  /                     \    \                                                             N            ~~~~~~~~C H  IN   A
,.  0s                                 1isJoornthR                                  FO./t                              ,'1                     I                I    A
'4ba\ta (                                 F/t                             ~                     Qtyh   / 7                                                                                                rrr'rjo  ,/    ^
PSedk'o d /                                                                             '. FA   S  A                                ; '          IN              2A
0Etog cri
-/pur                                           Jo_
p~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                        \> \e\ iii    ½X1 /  F                                                      lArao  2K    BhaI (    -
N~~~~~ E< P                            iff        \ L0                                                                                          ;               /X\  '                              Sokhr,RADM ROd
| <    SUGARCANE DEVELOPMENT                                                                 <                                                                   /   ,,  Fatepu
--   44/ ~~~~~~~~~~  4                        ' ~~~~~Belwo'    1                                   /oi
/              F                     Dhafl   eerrrs  r_ Iltle;\                                                                                     /\rarompur \0
Pokewno Road                                                                                                                                                         Kalgriio   \ -  E  ,a  /  /    R     Kolbhi  "A i
5  kJgarnoifhpur          /                                    u            /                       /
Pro0e0Fl  hCaps.___JSUGAR FCTOR
(einaPkci                                10       H OI km  S--ihw                             RIRAN rs>                                                                                    >      1F *
oTi16dwe                              n&yh                       ~IroI
SUciBitwaF)                                                      8                                                                 -                                             n                     /l/aiy
Kal rioa-  "ghublun   8                          5                                         100Mu n
gt r                     Phento               \CU           0grru n _    - :P
S/   ~          8 TA8°1)<O 
>70<0                                  -----------~~~~~-         P/SA U                                        B7F                                0   riycirpur          //
N E PAL                                                                                                                              PCADAM PO D
CASHI CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                            Mtaw                                                                               
SUGARCANE DEVELOPMENT                                                                       A/U 
,fSo Ri-o o-r'r  -iNo'M.roFFed Rood,                                                                                                                        ,/ 
No-  Roo-1 rrr   ro  FEroFci----  Eorihe-  Roods
-L-l-',V.v H,gf,-y 2 5  R.d..y~~~~~~~~~~~~ d ~PaterwaX
Hoi-or  ngho-y    2 5          A     o       S,i honor Weigh Rdges
J.orcr5rur-              5.0 ~Oirk.    0     Srb- Con,, Offie
Proiccil                         ®    ~~~~~~Disi,rro  Cop oF/l~
P,o   , -Rkhoni             Fl km,,   ~      tRve'
booi'o-TFo-F 1-'1Foier-l -oo, Roo-dos
Ro1o, --oroFi.                    7                    _        _        _        _        _        _N
KoFi.,y- Bog.h-oi                 1        0                              5                            Fl MdFe                               1
Kcioryo -- MoForor:r  0                                                                       (~~~~~~~~~HAUR/ACA NO
.S, rhr     odo Scrod                       Tiby..ooocororirro  Wod  okosficcrcrrirfr ocooo
Ilco    --onrd-roofroe"PI' rrioodrohrII'ooooed Thrr, Uoro,oOooiiroOsOO,rO 3,d h
oooo-oooh-oOo     ,,- cro,i  --pdot.r/yno, -eIrorcI,oe lWoridoon0                                                             D I-A
afrOrs oyjodg-rr-oOtn -  --Oriooo oI ooIeoio I oroIioOyr'IrNrrDrI



