Report No. 847a-YDR                                                             FILE
Appraisal of                                                                                         Y
Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
January 12, 1976
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       Yemeni Dinar (ID)
YD1             =  US$2.90
YD 1,000            US$2,900
YD 1,000,000        US$2,900,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                     BritiaW/US System
1 millimeter (mm)             -       0.0394 inch
1 meter (i)                   =       3.2808 foot
1 kilometer (km)      2               0.6214 mile
1 square kilometer (lm2)      -       0.3861 square mile
1 bectare (ha)                -       2.4711 acre
1 cubic meter (X3)            =      35.3147 cubic foot
1 million cubic meter (MN3)   -    810.7000 acre foot
1 kilogram (kg)               -       2.2046 pound
1 metric ton (ton)            =  2,204.6000 pound
1 liter per second (1/sec)    -       0.0353 cubic foot per second
GLOSSARY OF ABEREVIATIONS
F.DRY   -  People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
MRS    -  Machinery Renting Station
MAAR   -  Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
NCHFT  -  National Companr  for Home and Fbroign Trade
HCU    -  Horticulture Cooperative Union
NBY   -   National Bank of Yemen
AWF    -  Agricultural Development Fund
PkD    -  Public Works Department
NWC    -   National Water Corporation
HPO    -  Hadramat Project Organization
LAC    -  Local Advisory Comittee
GOVERNMENT OF PDRY
FISCAL YEAR
April 1   -  March 31 (Prior to 1975)
April 1   -  December 31 (1975)
January 1   -  December 31 (From 1976)



FOR OUFlCFIL UW tWILl
APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .............................    i-ii
I. ItNTRODUCTION .......  1
II.   COUNTRY BACKGROUND AND THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR                           1
A. Country Background. . .                                              1
B. The Agricultural Sector.                                            2
III.   THE PROJECT AREA AND NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS .                 .           3
A. The Project Area...                                                 3
B. Natural Resources. . .                                              5
C. Land Tenure...    6
D.   Land Use and Agricultural Production .                .            7
E. Cooperatives...                                                      8
F. Marketing.                                  .          ...   9
G.   National Institutions .           . ........................      9
IV. THE PROJECT .10
A. Objectives                   ...10
B. Description                   ...11
C. Cost Estimates                  . . .12
D. Financing    .. .14
E.  Implementation Schedule.                                          14
F. Procurement ...                              .        .. . .    14
G. Disbursements .                    .                               15
H. Environmental Impact                  . . .15
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION. . ...    16
A.  Organization and Management                ...16
B.  Operation and Maintenance                ...17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. Niaz, van der Goot (IDA), Marinet and Carpenter (Consultants) and has
been edited by Ms. Joan Chernock.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                     Page No.
C.   Consultant Services and Training .18
D. Credit .19
E. Recovery of Costs .20
F. Accounts and Audit .21
G. Monitoring .21
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....     .....................    21
A.   Production .....................................    21
B.   Markets   ........................................    22
C.   Prices   .........................................    22
D.   Subsidies and Taxes ............................    23
E.   Producer Income ................................    24
F.   Main Benefits and Beneficiaries ....     ............    26
G.  Economic Evaluation ............................    26
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS .......     ..............................  27
Annexes
1. Background Statistics and Data
2. Agriculture
3. Water Availability and Requirements
4. Land Tenure, Cooperatives and State Farms
5. Description of Project Works
6. Date Production and Packing Plant
7. Consultant's Terms of Reference
8. Cost Estimates
9. Disbursements
10. Organization and Management
11. Farm Budgets
12. Economic Analysis
Charts
WB 9859   Organization of Production Cooperative
WB 9858   Implementation Schedule
WB 9860  Hadramawt Project Organization
IBRD 11614     Project Area



APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The People's Democratic Republic of Yemen has few known natural re-
sources incluLding surface or groundwater. About 90,000 ha are cultivated an-
nually, using seasonal floods or groundwater, of which about 60% is planted
to cereals and 13% to cotton. Agriculture, in which about 60% of the popula-
tion is engaged, is one of the main economic sectors but generates only 20%
of GNP and 12% of the country's exports. Fertilizer use, started two years
ago, is insignificant. Domestic production of cereals falls short of local
demand and about 40,000 tons of wheat are imported annually.
ii.       In the current five year plan (1974175 to 1978/79), Government has
allocated 40% of development expenditure to agriculture and 20% to roads. The
proposed project, which aims to increase agricultural production in an area
already irrigated by over 2,000 wells, and includes construction of feeder
roads, is in accord with the national plan. The project would be located in
the valley of Hadramawt, which is almost isolated from the rest of the coun-
try by a barren plateau and the desert of Ramlat Sabtaine. A recent IDA
credit (560-YDR) for road construction would link the project area with the
port city of Mukalla.
iii.      The project would provide for the supply of 1,900 tons of fertilizer
and 20 tons of insecticide; procurement of tractors, farm implements and pump-
sets to replace worn out equipment; construction of 120 km of feeder roads;
construction of a 700 ton date fumigation and packing plant; construction of
a rural water supply to serve 40,000 persons (26% of the area's population)
living in villages and towns in the valley; an experimental program to fix
moving sand dunes and the completion of a feasibility study, partly funded
under IDA Credit (370-YDR), to explore groundwater and its development poten-
tial in the area. The project would be implemented in three years by the
Hadramawt Project Organization (HPO), a new unit to be established under the
Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR).  Three experts would_be
provided for three years under the project to HPO, one of whom would be the
Project Director. A Yemeni graduate with experience in agriculture would be
HPO's Co-Director. In addition to financing the completion of the feasibility
study, the project would provide short-term consultants for date production
and processing.  In-service and short-term overseas training would also be
provided for Yemeni personnel.
iv.       The project cost, including physical and price contingencies, is
estimated at US$7.7 million, of which 64% would be foreign exchange. The
proposed IDA credit of US$7.0 million would finance 100% of the estimated
foreign exchange component of US$5.0 million, plus 74% of local costs, or 91%
of the total project cost. The Government of PDRY and the public agency
responsible for the date packing plant, the Horticulture Cooperative Union
(HCU), would finance 27% of local costs or 9% of total cost (a total of



- ii -
US$0.7 million). The civil works (feeder roads, rural water supply and sand
dune fixation) included in the project, are not suited to international compe-
titive bidding and would be constructed by force account or under negotiated
contract. All imported equipment and goods would be procured by international
competitive bidding, except for small items with an aggregate value of
US$50,000.
v.        Farming in the project area is organized into production coopera-
tives (80%) and state farms (20%). Wheat (58%) and sorghum (29%) are the
main crops, with alfalfa, vegetables and sesame constituting the remaining
13%. Fertilizer and insecticide would be furnished under short-term credit,
whereas agricultural equipment and pumpsets would be supplied under medium-
term credit. Eighty percent of the date packing plant's investment would be
provided by the project as a long-term loan, and the remainder by the HCU.
vi.       Following project completion in 1979, annual net value added of
project area production would have increased by 112%. Wheat and sorghum
tonnage would have doubled, while output of vegetables and alfalfa would have
increased by 90% and sesame production by 50%. The gross value of incremental
production at market prices would amount to US$2.3 million annually. The eco-
nomic rate of return (ERR) for the whole project, including the date packing
plant but excluding the feasibility study, is estimated at 17%. If the rlral
water supply is excluded from the cost stream, the ERR increases to 21%. EkR
for the date packing plant by itself would amount to 11%. A 25% increase in
cost would lower the aforementioned rates of return to 8%, 11% and 5%, respec-
tively.
vii.      Presently, agriculture in the project area is heavily subsidized.
As a result of the project, average annual agricultural income of 5,000 co-
operative farmers (affecting 30,000 people) would increase by 23% from US$384
to US$472, and net Government subsidy to agriculture in the area would reduce
by 67% from a total of US$1.1 million to US$0.4 million. About 40,000 persons
(26% of project population) would benefit from the feeder roads, and rural
water supply schemes would improve the health of another 40,000 persons.
Completion of the feasibility study is likely to lead to the extension of
the irrigated area in the valley.
viii.     Agreement having been reached on the principal issues, subject to
the conditions of effectiveness, the project constitutes a suitable basis for
an IDA credit of US$7.0 million on standard terms. The borrower would be
the Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen.



APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY)
has requested assistance from IDA to help finance an agricultural project in
the Wadi Hadramawt area of the Fifth Governorate. The proposed project aims
at increasing the agricultural production from the presently irrigated land
in the Wadi and would finance a date fumigation and packing plant in the area.
It would also include the construction of two rural water supply schemes to
serve 26% of the project population and would complete a feasibility study,
partly financed under the Fisheries Project (Credit 370-YDR), to determine
the development potential of the area.
1.02      The proposed credit would be the sixth IDA credit to PDRY; it would
be the second to its agricultural sector; the first having been made for a
project in the fisheries sub-sector which is proceeding satisfactorily. The
project was identified by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program (CP) in March 1974,
and prepared by CP in August 1974. This appraisal report is based on the
findings of a mission to PDRY in January/February 1975, composed of Messrs.
S. Niaz and P. van der Goot (IDA) and J. Marinet and J. Carpenter (Consultants).
II. COUNTRY BACKGROUND AND THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Country Background
2.01      PDRY, with an area of 290,000 km2, is divided administratively into
six governorates. It has a population of about 1.6 million (1973 Census),
which is increasing at an annual rate of between 2.7% and 3%. The per capita
income is estimated at US$100 per annum. Additional statistics are presented
in Annex 1.
2.02      PDRY has few known natural resources.  Much of its territory is
either mountainous and rugged or desertic, while the climate is arid, charac-
terized by high temperatures and very little precipitation. These conditions
plus the absence of permanent surface water streams limit the scope for agri-
cultural development. No minerals of commercial importance or oil have been
discovered, although explorations are continuing along the northeastern borders.
2.03      The economy, up to independence in 1967, was centered around Aden
port and was service-oriented, with entrepot trade, bunkering and services
rendered to commercial shipping as well as to the British military base which
provided the mainstay of economic activity. Since 1967, political and social



-2-
change has coincided with an economic recession following the withdrawal of
British budgetary support and the dramatic decline in the use of Aden port
due to the closure of the Suez Canal.
2.04      In spite of austere fiscal measures taken by Government, the econ-
omy is deteriorating. This is partly the result of the increase in interna-
tional prices, particularly of foodstuffs and fuels, and the ensuing need to
increase subsidies for basic consumption commodities. Also, the expansion of
Government services and administration in the governorates has absorbed an in-
creasing proportion of revenues. The resulting pressures have led to deficit
financing through domestic bank credit, and to stringent import restriction.
Over the past few years, the budgetary deficit and the deficit in PDRY's bal-
ance of payments have been widening. However, it is anticipated that follow-
ing the reopening of the Suez Canal, PDRY's economy should start improving.
The port of Aden should attract a portion of the Canal traffic for refuellinp.
bunkering and other related services. A proposed IDA Credit (584-YDR) would
assist PDRY in the rehabilitation of Aden port. These developments would sub-
stantially increase PDRY's foreign exchange earnings and would provide addi-
tional employment.
2.05      Government is pursuing a policy of developing the commodity-producing
sectors of the economy and providing the infrastructure to integrate production
areas with consumption centers. The new Five Year Plan (1974/75 to 1978/79)
allocates almost US$219 million for development.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.06      Although 67% of PDRY's population is rural, the agricultural sector
generates about 20% of GNP and contributes only 12% to the country's export
earnings.
2.07      The total cultivated area in 1972/73 was approximately 90,000 ha,
80% of which depended on seasonal floods and the balance on irrigation from
wells. About 60% of the total area is being planted to cereals, mainly sor-
ghum and millet and to a lesser extent wheat; 13% to cotton; and the remainder
to fodder crops, fruits and vegetables.
2.08      Food crop production is subsistence based with only a modest market-
able surplus. The demand for all major foodstuffs - wheat, rice, sugar, meat
and milk - exceeds domestic supplies. In 1973, the value of imported food com-
modities accounted for 30% of the total value of all imports and was nearly
four times the export value of agricultural commodities, including cotton
which is the major agricultural export. Wheat imports are currently about
40,000 tons per year, or more than twice the total volume of domestic wheat
production.
2.09      Following the Agrarian Reform Law of 1970, most agricultural pro-
duction is now organized into production cooperatives and state farms. Gov-
ernment maintains strict control over commodity prices and the cost of cash



inputs. Producer prices are generally of the same order of magnitude as in-
ternational market prices. Agricultural production is comparatively heavily
taxed, but most cash inputs carry a substantial subsidy, and financial analy-
sis of one large production area indicates that subsidies exceed public rev-
enues by more than 200%.
2.10      PDRY has considerable scope for increasing agricultural value added,
in both the medium and the long term. The use of fertilizers and insecticides
is still very limited, and a sustained increase in their utilization can gen-
erate a material sector growth. Some of the various feasibility studies cur-
rently under way in the field of land and water development are expected to
lead eventually to a significant expansion of controlled irrigation.
2.11      The new Five Year Plan allocates 40% of development expenditures
to agriculture and 20% to roads. The latter are important in converting eco-
nomically isolated regions into an integrated national market. This may lead
to regional specialization of production and, in some areas, to the subsitu-
tion of high value cash crops for cereals. The proposed project conforms
with the Plan's objective of emphasizing development of agriculture, while
improving communication infrastructure.
III. THE PROJECT AREA AND NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
A. The Project Area
3.01      Location.  Wadi Hadramawt, located in the central part of PDRY
(Map 11614), is a narrow valley extending eastward to the Gulf of Aden from
the desert of Ramlat Sabtaine. The project area (1,200 km2) is located with-
in the valley, which is defined in the north and south by the near vertical
cliffs that isolate it from the adjoining plateau. The project area covers
parts of the northern and central districts of the Fifth Governorate and ex-
tends from Khasha'a in the west to As Som in the east. Seyun (population
20,000), the headquarters of the northern district and the main town in the pro-
ject area, is 500 km northeast of Aden and 200 km north of Mukalla, the port
city and capital of the Fifth Governorate. Other towns in the project area are
Qatn (population 2,500), which is the headquarters of thec:entral district,-
Shibam (population 8,000) and Tarim.
3.02      Topography. The Wadi is flat, having a width of about 10 km near
Haynin in the west and about 2 km near Qasm in the east. The average alti-
tude of the project area is 600 m above sea level. The plateau to the north
and the south of the Wadi is almost flat topped with elevation varying from
1,400 m to 1,800 m. Several tributaries join the Wadi from the north and
south; the latter are more active hydrologically. Total catchment of the
Wadi is about 114,000 km2, of which 90,000 km2 lying to the west of Haynin,
being desertic, is ineffective.



- 4 -
3.03      Population.  According to the 1973 census, the population of the
northern and central districts of the Fifth Governorate was about 180,000,
which is about 40% of the governorate's population and about 11% of the na-
tional total. The population of the area, falling within the general limits
of the project, is estimated at about 150,000, of which about 10% is nomadic.
About one-half is less than 17 years of age. During the past several decades,
thousands of people have emigrated from the Wadi to countries in East Africa
and the Gulf, Indonesia, Malaysia and Saudi Arabia. Most of the immigrants
send remittances to their relatives living in the Wadi. No data exist on the
number of people who are fully dependent on such remittances, but estimates
run into several thousand. Excluding these and the population that derives
its livelihood from other pursuits, the agricultural population is estimated
at 60,000. The average family size is about 5.5 persons. Except at harvest
time, the agricultural labor force is substantially underemployed.
3.04      Health.  Health facilities are more advanced in Wadi Hadramawt than
elsewhere in the country, with the exception of Aden. There is a 70-bed hos-
pital at Seyun, staffed by a team of 10 Chinese doctors. Smaller hospitals
at Tarim and Shibam serve outpatients only and are visited by the Chinese
doctors once a week. In addition, 14 dispensaries located in the two dis-
tricts serve the project area population. The most common diseases in the
area are skin diseases, those caused by malnutrition, dysentery,tuberculosis,
and contagious eye infections. Some malarial cases are also treated each
month, which are usually brought from the outlying areas.
3.05      Education.  Like the rest of the country, about 75% of the agricul-
tural population is illiterate, but with increased emphasis on education, the
literacy rate is improving quickly. About 70 elementary schools exist in the
Wadi, with an enrollment of about 13,500 students (80% boys). A comparison
of these numbers with the census data indicates that of the 6-12 years age
group, about 70% of the boys and 15% of the girls are attending schools.
The student/teacher ratio is 35:1. There are fifteen intermediate-level
schools, with enrollments of nearly 2,000 students, and only one secondary
school at Seyun where about 450 students are registered. Tuition at all
levels is free. The IDA education project (Credit 494-YDR) which has the
general objective of improving the national education system, has various
components in the project area.
3.06      Electricity.  The towns of Seyun, Qatn and Tarim are served by small
diesel-generating units. Most of the houses in these towns are electrified.
There is no rural electrification and almost all of the wells are pumped by
diesel engines. Government is keen to install a large generating plant near
Seyun from which to electrify the whole valley, but no definite plans have
yet been formulated for this project.
3.07      Water Supply.  Shallow wells provide drinking water in the Wadi;
these are easily pdlluted and are a source of water-borne diseases. Piped
water supply is available in Seyun and parts of other towns but these systems
are old and are insufficient for present needs. The wells serving Shibam have
turned brackish and need to be replaced. Since a large number of project area



villages are located near one another along the southern edge of the Wadi,
it is proposed to provide piped water supply to a string of villages around
Shibam and Qatn through two independent schemes.
3.08      Communications.  Two sub-standard roads link the Wadi with Mukalla
on the coast: the one passing through Wadi Idm (eastern route) is about 300
km, of which about 120 km kas a cobbled surface; and the other (western route)
passes through Wadi Duan and is 273 km. Both are in poor condition and con-
sequently transport of goods in and out of the project area is time-consuming
and expensive. With assistance from IDA (Credit 560-YDR) and the Kuwait Fund,
construction of an asphalt road linking Seyun and Qatn with Mukalla is due
to start shortly. This road, expected to be completed in early 1979, and
the Mikalla-Aden road, to be completed in 1977 under Chinese bilateral aid,
would complete the link between the Wadi and Aden. Within the Wadi, the only
one road with a cobbled surface runs from Qatn in the west to Tarim and Qasm
in the east. This road, aligned more or less along the southern boundary of
the Wadi, passes through or close to most of the villages iu the south.
Feeder roads do not exist in the area and only a few tracks provide connec-
tion between important villages in the north and the main west-east road.
A fair weather air strip at Ghuraf permits DC-3 flights into the area from
Mukalla.
B. Natural Resourdes
3.09      Climate.  The climate is hot and arid, with mean maximum tempera-
tures ranging from 40°C in summer to 30°C in winter, and the mean minimum
varying respectively from 22C to 12C (Annex 2).  Pan evaporation is around
3,000 mm per year.  Rain falls in the form of short intense showers with an
unpredictable and erratic distribution, during the months of April, July,
August and September, and averages around 60 mm per year. Relative humidity
varies from 64ZThin January to 35% in June.  Occasional strong duststorms that
damage the crops are common during April and May.
3.10      Soils.  Based on a reconnaissance level soil survey carried out by
a Russian team, the area within the project boundary is classified as follows:
Area
Classification                               ha             x
Suitable for irrigation                   39,000           33
Partially suitable for irrigation         11,000            9
Unsuitable for irrigation on ac-
count of salt content, texture
or topography                           70,000          58
Total                         120,000          100



The soils basically consist of sandy loams with low humus content and high
(30% to 40%) calcium carbonate levels. They are mildly alkaline (pH 7.1 to
7.5). Drainage is not a problem, as soils are light. Further details are
in Annex 2.
3.11      Water Availability.  All cultivation in Wadi Hadramawt is dependent
on irrigation, the most reliable source for which is groundwater. The annual
rainfall, being limited, erratic and sporadic, produces flash floods in the
tributaries of the Wadi, which are used for spate irrigation of areas in the
side wadis and in Wadi Hadramawt. The occurrence of floods is unpredictable.
Cultivation in such areas is practiced whenever possible and generally covers
500 to 700 ha. Although a number of stone masonry weirs exist, most have
fallen into a state of disrepair. Such weirs perform the useful function of
increasing groundwater recharge, and the rehabilitation of these weirs would
be investigated under the feasibility study proposed as a part of the project.
Perennial water occurs in the upper reaches of Wadi Idm.
3.12      Groundwater occurs practically throughout the Wadi at depths varying
from 5 to 30 m. Its quality varies, but is generally acceptable for irrigation
near the northern and southern fringes, while salinity increases towards the
center. Groundwater is exploited through 2,152 open wells fitted with diesel
pumpsets, each well yielding about 6.0 1/sec. In addition, 81 tubewells (aver-
age discharge 15 1/sec) in the cooperatives and 21 other tubewells (average
yield 25 1/sec) on the state farmn supplement irrigation supplies. Total
annual extraction is estimated at 128 Mm3 (Annex 3, Table 2). Because of wide
fluctuations in rainfall and the resulting runoff, it is not possible to es-
timate the average recharge precisely, which may vary from 100 Mm3 to 400 Mm3.
Consequently, it cannot be determined if present extractions are within the
safe yield of the aquifer. It is therefore essential that the groundwater
resources of the Wadi be fully explored. The feasibility study, partly funded
under the Fisheries Project (Credit 370-YDR), would provide for this.
3.13      Irrigation and Drainage.  About 12,000 ha are commanded by the
existing open wells and the tubewells, of which only about 8,000 ha are cul-
tivated annually. Due to the light soils, conveyance losses in the distribu-
tion channels are high (25% to 35%), as are field losses. Consequently, the
efficiency of irrigation is about 50%. In the areas currently under cultiva-
tion, drainage is not required.
C. Land Tenure
3.14      Sharecropping was the predominant system of land tenure in the proj-
ect area up to 1972, when the Agrarian Reform Law of 1970 was extended to the
Wadi. Under this Law, land belonging to the rulers of the old regime and their
associates, and all Waqf (religious trust) land was confiscated and their
ownership was vested in Government. Sharecroppers or tenants farming these



-7-
lands, however, were given the right to continue benefitting from these lands.
The Agrarian Reform Law also permitted individual ownerships of up to 8 ha of
irrigated and 16 ha of dry land. Inspite of this provision in the Law, there
is now practically no private ownership in the project area and almost all
land belongs to the State. Further details on land tenure are in Annex 4.
3.15      A small proportion of the land expropriated under the Agrarian
Reform Law, and land previously not cultivated and recently reclaimed is or-
ganized into state farms. Four such farms (Redud, Balal, 15 July and Juaymah;
total area 900 ha) have already been established and two more (Bahran and Bor;
total area 340 ha) are in the process of being established. Currently only
300 ha is cultivated on the established state farms. Government intends to
have more state farms, and the present policy is that all land to be reclaimed
from the desert by installation of tubewells should be organized into state
farms. It is estimated that by the end of 1978 1,500 ha would be cultivated
(Annex 4).
D. Land Use and Agricultural Production
3.16      Land Use.  Of the 50,000 ha suitable for irrigation, about 12,000
ha is under the command of existing wells, of which about 8,000 ha is annually
cultivated. Of the 8,000 ha cultivated, about 6,400 ha is sown to crops;
the remaining 1,600 ha represents the area occupied by a total of 200,000
date palms scattered over about one-half of the cultivated area, where inter-
cropping is practiced.
3.17      The cultivated area is organized into five production cooperatives
(6,100 ha) and four state farms (300 ha). About 58% of the area is sown to
wheat; 29% to sorghum; and the balance to alfalfa (6%), vegetables (5%) and
sesame (2%). Of the nearly 4,000 ha under wheat in the 1974-75 season, about
1,200 ha or 30% was sown with a high yielding variety. About 500 ha is cul-
tivated with sorghum by spate irrigation, from which an additional 120,000
date palms, scattered throughout the spate-irrigated area, also benefit.
Another 80,000 date palms located in the upper part of Wadi Idm, receive irri-
gation from the perennial supplies of this wadi.
3.18      Agricultural Production.  Fertilizer is being used only on that
part of the project area which is cultivated with a high yielding variety of
wheat, but the application rate is much smaller than that recommended by the
agricultural research station. Use of fertilizers and insecticide on crops
other than high yielding wheat is limited to the state farms.   Yields, there-
fore, are poor and average about t.8 ton/ha for high yielding wheat, 1.2 ton/ha
for local wheat and about 1.0 ton/ha for sorghum. Details of yields and pro-
duction are in Annex 2.



-8-
3.19      Livestock.  The livestock population is estimated at about 125,000
goats and sheep. These are local breeds and yield about 2,000 tons of milk
and 500 tons of meat annually. They are normally fed on sorghum stover,
date stones, shrubs and residue from other crops, but the milk-yielding
animals are given alfalfa and sorghum fodder whenever possible. On Redud
state farm, a flock of 500 goats and sheep is maintained. Diseases are
virtually non-existent. The project area forms part of a much larger area
which is the subject of a development project financed by the United Nations
Office of Technical Cooperation, under which animal production and health in
the Wadi is receiving attention.
E. Cooperatives
3.20      The Cooperation Law of 1972 defines the framework under which
various types of cooperatives, including agricultural production cooperatives,
can be established in PDRY. Under this Law, five agricultural production
cooperatives have been set up in the project area, which encompass virtually
all cultivated land in the project area except for the state farms. These
cooperatives have a membership of about 5,000 farmers. The purpose of the
cooperatives is to raise and improve the level of production and the living
standard of its members by following government's development plan for the
area and by utilizing scientific production techniques. The cooperatives own
the existing wells and the pumping equipment installed on them, but rent agri-
cultural equipment from the Machinery Renting Station (MRS) of the Ministry
of Agriculture. Further details are in Annex 4.
3.21      Each cooperative is managed by an administrative _ouncil of about
ten members. Most council members are also heais of sub-committees that
have specific responsibilities in such fields as agricultural production,
marketing, social welfare, voluntary work, information, etc. A large coopera-
tive may have a number of collective units, each headed by a member of the
administration council, with two or three production units in each collective
unit, and in turn 8 to 15 working gropps (or "firqas") in each production
unit. The smallest unit in the cooperative structure is the working group,
which consists of from 3 to 20 farmers.
3.22      Shortage of trained management staff and lack of an accurate data
base are severe constraints to the development of cooperatives in the project
area. Nearly all members of the administration councils have received only
elementary level education. Accountants for all five cooperatives in the
project area are furnished by the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reforms
(MAAR), and are without any training in accounting. A national Cooperative
Education and Training Center was established in 1973 under UNDP/ILO assist-
ance, which is training managers and accountants for cooperatives through two
to three months courses. None of the cooperative employees from the project
area has as yet received training at this center.



- 9 -
F. Marketing
3.23      All major agricultural commodities are marketed through two auto-
nomous public agencies. The National Company for Home and Foreign Trade
(NCHFT), responsible for marketing cereals and for their import and distri-
bution, performs its functions through local procurement centers and a chain
of wholesale and retail points. The Horticulture Cooperative Union (HCU),
responsible for marketing fruits and vegetables and for their imports, ope-
rates through its local branches, its own retail stores or through private
retailers. Both agencies are operational in the project area and purchase
the respective commodities that are surplus to the needs of the cooperatives.
Because of small surpluses and transport difficulties, most commodities are
marketed within the Wadi; only dates, onions and garlic occasionally reach
Mukalla or Aden.
3.24      NCHFT is the sole importer and supplier of agricultural and irriga-
tion equipment, while HCU has similar responsibility for fertilizer and in-
secticide. Liaison between the Aden-based headquarters of these agencies
and the project area is through their branch offices at Seyun and Qata. For
distribution purposes, neither organization maintains its own transport but
arranges trucks through state-owned enterprises or private operators.
G. National Institutions
3.25      Agricultural Production.  MAAR is responsible for developing agri-
cultural production including irrigation. Although the project area is the
third largest agricultural area in PDRY, MAAR has no responsible representa-
tive in the area either for agriculture or for irrigation.  In addition to th-
_cooperatives (para 3.20), the only agencies in the project area concerned wit:
agricultural production are:  (a) MS, which is responsible for maintaining
pumpsets and for renting, mairtaining and repairing agricultural equipment;
and (b) the Directorate of State Farms, which is primarily responsible for
these units, which cover only 7% of the cultivated land in the project area.
MRS, an efficient organization, is headquartered in Seyun and has three sub-
stktions in the project area. It maintains a large workshop and stock of
spare parts at Seyun. This workshop is presently being extended and equipped
under bilateral assistance from the German Democratic Republic.
3.26      Agricultural Research and Extension.  A research substation was
established near Seyun in 1974 and is supervised by two Yemeni graduates.
The substation is affiliated with the research station at El-Kod (near Aden)
and operates under the guidance of UNDP/FAO experts who provide technical
assistance for agricultural research and training. The sub-station's program
is oriented towards solving area-specific production problems. There is no
government extension service, although extension advice is being furnished
regularly by the UNDP/FAO experts visiting the project area.



- 10 -
3.27      Credit Sources.  PDRY has two major sources of agricultural credit.
The National Bank of Yemen (NBY), the bigEs of the two, started lending money
to cooperatives in 1971 and currently is ertendiug credit at interest rates
between 5% and 6Z.  Its consolidated balance sheet is in Annex 1.   The volume
of short-term lending is still small because of the limited use of consumable
inputs. The other source is MAAR's Agricultural Development Fund (ADF), which
extends only medium-term loans at a highly subsidized rate of 1% to 2%, pri-
marily to ailing cooperatives and state farms. The lending procedures of
both organizations require a review of loan requests by MAAR's personnel. The
borrowers generally are not given cash but receive credit from a supplier, who
is paid directly by NBY or ADF. Sometimes credit (supplier's) is also exten-
ded by NCHFT but for very short periods. HCU is also permitted to advance
fertilizer in kind to the cooperatives and state farms on a short-term basis,
but such transactions are rare in the project area. Cooperatives in the
project area are easing liquidity constraints by using funds from fuel sales
which they are authorized to make on behalf of the National Yemen Oil Company.
3.28      Roads.  Road construction is the responsibility of the Public
Works Department (PWD), which is repreaseted in the project area through an =
office at Seyun. This office has sufficient staff, although all incumbents
are unqualified. It has a workshop for maintaining and repairing construction
equipment. Transport facilities belonging to the Department are also avail-
able at Seyun. It is expected that the IDA assisted road project will contri-
bute toward improvement of the local staff.
3.29      Rural Water Supply.  Construction of water supply schemes is the
responsibility of the National Water Corporation (NWC), an autonomous agency
under the Ministry of Public Works. It is not represented in the project
area, but has a directorate at Mukalla which is responsible for all works in
t he Fifth Governorate.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Oblectives
4.01      The main objective of the project is to increase agricultural pro-
duction in that part of the..project area which is presently under irrigation
from existing wells. Additional objectives are: (i) to introduce a small-
scale date packing plant to reduce spoilage losses; (ii) to provide drinking
water supply to those villages and towns in urgent need of a potable supply;
and (iii) to complete the feasibility study, partly funded under the Fisheries
Project (Credit 370-YDR), which would explore groundwater aquifers of the
project area and identify its development potential.



- 11 -
B. Description
4.02      The main project objective would be achieved by providing the means
to raise agricultural production in the area. These include: (a) fertilizer
and insecticide, (b) agricultural equipment, (c) irrigation equipment, (d)
feeder roads, and (e) imparting improved technology through an agricultural
extensionZservice and project management during the project's three-year ix-
plementation period. The project would provide the full requirement of urea
and superphosphate, and chemicals for crop protection for the first crop
year plus their incremental requirements for the next two years, totalling
respectively 1,360 tons, 550 tons and 20 tons. These supplies would be
distributed in kind to the cooperatives and state farms in the project area.
Thirty-five tractors and various farm implements (Annex 8, Table 3) would be
provided to replace worn out equipment and to supplement the existing usable
equipment of MRS and the state farms. One hundred diesel engines and pumps
would be procured to replace worn out pumpsets. About 120 km of feeder roads
(Annex 5) would be constructed, using labor intensive methods, to connect most
of the villages located in the northern parts of the project area with the
Qatn-Tarim road to facilitate movement of inputs and output within the project
area. Modest provisions have also been made to furnish some implements (Annex
8, Table 3) to the Seyun research substation and to undertake an experimental
program to fix moving sand dunes near the project area's western boundary,
where a few farms have already been abandoned due to dune movement. Further
details on the project's civil works are given in Annex 5.
4.03      The project would also provide for the establishment of a date
fumigation and packing plant in the project area, which is considered to be a
very suitable small-scale processing industry because present spoilage
losses in date marketing are high. The proposed plant would process initially
700 tons of dates (7% of area's production) during one season. The plant
would be installed and managed by the Horticulture Co-operative Union, a public
agency nominated by Government. This agency would contribute 20% of the plant's
cost and the remaining 80% would be provided by Government from project funds
as a long-term loan under an agreement between NBY and the HCU, upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. The loan would be at 5% interest and for a
period of ten years with two years of grace.  During negotiations, assurances
~were obtained that (a) the HCU would contribute 20% of the plant's cost
from its own resources; and (b) a loan agreement, terms and conditions of which
would be acceptable to IDA, would be signed between NBY and the HCU prior to
extending the long-term loan to this agency. The project would also furnish
a short-term consultant to assist the agency in preparing specifications for
the date packing plant together with bidding documents and evaluation of bids.
During negotiations an assurance was obtained that such a consultant ac-
,ceptable to IDA, would kbe employed.  Further details on the date packing plant
are in Annex 6.



- 12 -
4.04      Of the two rural water supply schemes, one would be around the
town of Shibam (Map 11614) and would serve 8 villages in addition to the
town of Shibam, with a total population of about 30,000. The second scheme
would be located near Qatn which, in addition to this town, would serve 14
villages or a total population of about 10,000. Two tubewells would be
installed under each scheme, near Shibam and Qatn, and asbestos cement mains
extending both eastward and westward along the main road would serve the near-
by villages. Further details of these schemes are in Annex 5.
4.05      The feasibility study would be initiated by a consulting firm,
which is to be engaged shortly under the Fisheries Project (IDA Credit 370-
YDR). The same firm would be retained under the proposed project, to con-
tinue and complete the study. Terms of reference for the consultants for
both parts of the study are in Annex 7.
4.06      The Hadramawt Project Organization (HPO) would have overall respon-
sibility for project implementation. Three experts, to be employed under the
project, would supervise implementation and would also train their Yemeni
counterparts.
C. Cost Estimates
4.07      The estimated total project cost, based on mid-1975 prices, is YD
2.7 million (US$7.7 million) including contingencies. The foreign exchange
component is estimated at US$5.0 million, or 64% of total cost. The cost of
imported equipment and materials reflect international market prices; the
costs for civil works have been estimated for current force account construc-
tion practices in PDKY. The estimates for consulting services reflect the
cost of recent contracts for similar assignments in the Region. Physical con-
tingencies are provided at 10% of the cost of all items except for the date -
packing plant, for which the provision is 20%. Price contingencies allow for
annual increases in equipment costs of from 10% to 8Z and in cost of civil
works and other items from 14% to 12%. No price contingencies are included
for fertilizer, since no increases in the international prices of fertilizer
are expected. Total contingencies (physical and price) are just over 29% of
base cost.  Import duties,taxes and other levies are not included in project
costs. Project costs are summarized in the table below. Details are given
in Annex 8.



- 13 -
YD Thousand              US$ Thousand         % Foreign
Item                 Local  Foreign  Tot,11-1- Local  Foreign  Total-1  Exchange
Agricultural Development
Supplies, Equipment& Works
Fertilizer & Insecticide        60      340     400     174      986   1,160        85
Agricultural Equipment          43      247     290      125     716     841        85
Irrigation Equipment            23      127     150       67     368     435       85
Feeder Roads                   268      102     370      777     296   1,073       28
Subtotal                394       816   1,210   1,143   2,366   3'509        67
Management
Experts & Training              46      154     200     133      447     580        77
Project Organization            70       --      70      203      --     203        --
Vehicles & Office Equipment      4       26      30       12      75      87        87
Subtotal                120       180     300     348      522     870       60
Research
Substation Equipment             1        7       8        3      20      23        88
Sand Dune Fixation              13       14      27       38      41      79        52
Subtotal                 14        21      35      41       61     102       60
Date Packing Plant                  20       80     100       58     232     290        80
Rural Water Supply                 102      118     220      296     342     638        54
Feasibility Study                   50      150     200      145     435     580        75
Total                   700    1,365   2,065   2,031   3         5,989       66
Contingencies
Physical                        75      145     220     217      421     638       66
Price                          185      200     385      537     580   1,117        52
Subtotal                260       345     605     754   1,001   1,755        57
Grand Total             960    1,710   2,670   2,785   4,959   7,744         64
/1 Discrepancies due to rounding.



- 14 -
D. Financing
4.08      An IDA credit of US$7.0 million would finance 100% of the estimated
foreign costs (US$5.0 million) plus about US$2.0 million of local costs, or
about 91% of total project cost. Government and the public agency responsible
for the date packing plant, the Horticulture Co-operative Union (HCU), would
meet the remaining US$0.7 million. The financing plan is summarized below:
Total as % of
Item                           Local     Foreign      Total     Project Cost
-       US$ million------)          (%)
IDA Credit                      2.0        5.0         7.0          91
Government and/or HCU           0.7         -          0.7           9
Total                      2.7        5.0         7.7         100
E. Implementation Schedule
4.09      The project would be implemented in three years in accordance with
the schedule in Chart 9858. Project activities would commence in early 1976
and be completed by mid 1979. The estimated schedule of expenditure is in
Annex 8, Table 2.
F. Procurement
4.10      Of the project elements, feeder roads (US$1.1 million) and rural
water supply (US$0.6 million) are the only items involving civil works con-
struction; however, the small size and scattered nature of these works makes
them unsuitable for international bidding. Since construction contractors in
PDRY are few in number and small in size, these works would be carried out
on force account or under negotiated contracts approved by IDA. The equip-
ment and imported materials required (US$0.7 million) for these works; the
agricultural, irrigation and other equipment required for the project
(US$1.4 million); fertilizers (US$1.2 million); and equipment for the date
packing plant (US$0.2 million) would be procured through international competi-
tive bidding. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that all items



- 15 -
involving foreign exchange expenditures, except for minor items whose aggregate
value would not exceed US$50,000, would be procured through international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits." Items of less than US$50,000 would be
procured under local procedures which are acceptable to IDA. Total value of
goods to be procured on the above mentioned basis would amount to about
US$3.5 million, which is 88% of the total foreign cost of the project exclu-
ding contingencies. Actual procurement would be performed by existing Govern-
ment agencies, chiefly the NCHF and HCU.
G. Disbursements
4.11      The proposed credit of US$7.0 million would be disbursed over a
four year period. An estimated schedule is in Annex 9. Disbursements would
be made on the following basis:
Agricultural Equipment and Supplies       -    100% of the CIF cost of imported
(US$2.3 million)                    goods and 85% of the ex-factory
costs of locally manufactured
goods; 85% of costs of goods
locally procured;
Civil Works (Feeder Roads and Water       -    100% of total expenditures for
Supply)                            negotiated contracts or force
US$1.9 million)                     account work; 100% of the CIF
cost of imported equipment.
Date Packing Plant                        -    100% of the CIF cost of imported
(US$0.3 million)                    equipment and supplies.
Management, Consultants, Training,        -    100% of total expenditures.
Research and Studies
(US$1.9 million)
Unallocated (US$0.6 million)             -    For contingencies.
Disbursement requests would be supported by full documentation.  All savings
after project completion would be cancelled.
H. Environmental Impact
4.12      While skin and malnutrition diseases and dysentery are common in
the project area, only a few cases of malaria per month are treated at the
hospital and the medical dispensaries. Project implementation would neither
adversely affect public health nor the environment. Construction of the
rural water supply schemes would improve the drinking water supply of about
40,000 inhabitants (26%) of the project area, thereby removing the major
cause of dysentery for these people.



- 16 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.01      Project Organization.  Project implementation would be the respon-
sibility of the Hadramawt Project organization (HPO), to be established at
Seyun under the Department of Planning and Statistics of the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Agrarian Reforms (MAAR). HPO would be headed by a Project Direc-
tor, who would be an experienced agriculturalist and would be employed for a
period of three years. He would be assisted by two other specialists, also
to be employed for three years, one of whom would be an expert in agricultural
extension and the other an engineer. The three experts would be selected in
consultation with IDA and would be employed by Government on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to IDA within six months of signing of the credit agreement.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained to this effect. The Project
Director of HPO would report to the Director of Planning of MAAR in Aden, who
is directly under the Minister. The proposed project organization is illustrated
in Chart 9860.
5.02      The Project Director of HPO would be assisted by a Yemeni graduate
with experience in agriculture, whom the Goverment has designated to serve as
the Co-Director of HPO. The initial and any subsequent appointment would be
made in consultation with IDA. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
to this effect. Three other qualified Yemeni graduates - an agriculturalist,
an engineer and an accountant, with four extension and engineering supervisors,
ten extension agents and some clerical staff would be required for HPO. The
establishment of HPO and the appointment of the three Yemeni graduates other
than the Co-Director would be a condition of credit effectiveness. During
negotiations, the above enumerated assurances were obtained. Further details
of HPO are given in Annex 10 and Chart 9860.
5.03      Local Advisory Committee.  A local advisory committee (LAC) would
also be established in the project area to advise the Project Director on local
affairs and to impart a sense of participation in project implementation among
the district administration and heads of the cooperatives in the project area.
LAC would be headed by the District Officer at Seyun, while the District
Officer at Qatn would be its Co-Chairman (Chart 9860). The Co-Director of the
project would be its Secretary and its membership would at least include the
Project Director, Director of State Farms, Manager of MRS, local representa-
tives of NBY, PWD and NWC, the officer in charge of the Seyun Research Sub-
station, and the Chairmen of five cooperatives. During negotiations, assur-
ances were obtained that LAC would be established within three months of credit
effectiveness.



- 17 -
5.04      Implementation.  HPO would be responsible for project implementation.
It would carry out detailed planning of all project activities including the
preparation of annual work programs and budgets and, after Ministerial ap-
proval, would be responsible for their timely implementation. HPO would
prepare contract documents including technical specifications for all project
procurements, but the actual procurement may be arranged through the existing
government agencies, mainly NCHFT and HCU. HPO would be directly responsible
for improving agricultural production in the project area including fertilizer
distribution, crop protection measures and rendering technical advice to proj-
ect farmers. HPO would maintain a close liaison with the research station at
El-Kod and the substation at Seyun and would actively participate in the ex-
perimental work on date cultivation. HPO would also supervise the construc-
tion of the date packing plant. HPO's functions are illustrated in Chart 9860.
5.05      Construction of feeder roads and rural water supply schemes would
be arranged by HPO through PWD and NWC, respectively, either on force account
or under negotiated contracts with these agencies. A drilling expert, who is
already in PDRY and is actively involved in the region under the United Nations
Office of Technical Cooperation's Development Project in Hadramawt and Northern
Areas, is willing to provide specialist assistance to NWC for the drilling of
tubewells. Experimental work on sand dune fixation would be carried out on
force account under the guidance of the Project Director. A forestry special-
ist, who is already in PDRY and is actively involved in this work under
UNDP/FAO's Research and Training Project, is also willing to provide specialist
advice. The UNDP Resident Representative in PDRY is agreeable to making the
two specialists available for the project whenever required. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that Government would make the necessary arrange-
ments with UNDP for this special assistance.
5.06      Since after year one the project would furnish only the incremental
requirement of fertilizer and insecticide for years two and three, Government
would have to procure the base requirement of these inputs for the two years
in question. During negotiations, an assurance that Government would procure
the required fertilizer and insecticide was obtained.
5.07      All project funds would be channeled through the NBY.  A part of
these funds would be on-lent by NBY to other agencies (para 5.14) and the
remaining would be disbursed through HPO as direct project expenditure.
B. Operation and Maintenance
5.08      The most important maintenance aspect of the project is to keep the
project area supplied every year with the requirement of fertilizer and insec-
ticide at levels which are determined from year to year but which, in general,
would approximate the quantities that would be consumed in the last year of



- 18 -
project implementation (present estimated value US$1.2 million). Since these
inputs are imported, at least 85% of the amount, or US$1.0 million, would be
required in foreign exchange every year for this purpose. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that every year throughout the life of the project
Goverrment would procure and, in a timely manner, properly distribute in the
project area fertilizer and insecticide, at least at those levels at which
such inputs were applied in the last year of project implementation.
5.09      All agricultural equipment, whether owned by MRS or the state farms,
would be maintained by MRS, which is well equipped to do this. MRS would also
provide tractor operators, whenever such equipment is rented out to coopera-
tives. The current rental rates are low and do not cover actual operation
and maintenance costs. These rates would have to be approximately doubled
to fully recover the actual operating and maintenance costs, and would of
course have to be increased much further if the capital cost of the equipment
was to be recovered from the users. Since the incremental farmer's income
generated by the project, with equipment rental rates doubled, would be about
23%, a further rate increase would leave insufficient incentive to farmers.
Consequently, assurances were obtained during negotiations that MRS would be
permitted to increase its equipment rental rates, in order to enable it to
recover at least its actual operation and maintenance costs.
5.10      All pumpsets are operated by the cooperatives and the state farms,
but are maintained by MRS. The present annual charge for this service (YD 8
to YD 12 per pumpset) is also insufficient to cover the actual maintenance
costs and would have to be increased in order to recover, in full, the
actual maintenance and repair costs (estimated at YD 30 per pumpset). During
negotiations, therefore, assurances were obtained that MRS would be permitted
to increase its annual rates for pumpset maintenance.
5.11      The feeder roads and the rural water supply schemes would be main-
tained by PWD and NWC, respectively, with the assistance of some of the equip-
ment provided under the project. The communities benefiting from the rural
water supply would be charged for the operation and maintenance costs of the
system in proportion to volumes consumed.  Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that these project facilities would be properly maintained, with
necessary charges being determined and collected.
C. Consultant Services and Training
5.12      The fisheries project (IDA Credit 370-YDR) includes a provision for
exploration of the aquifer underlying Wadi Hadramawt. To date no steps have
been taken in this exploration, and funds are now insufficient. Therefore
provision is made in the present project for continuation and completion of
the study, by employing a consulting firm whose terms of reference, agreed
with Government, are in Annex 7. A total of 120 man-months are provided for
these consultants.



- 19 -
5.13      Terms of reference for the three experts, who would be recruited on
an individual basis, are given in Annex 10. A total of 108 man-months of time
would be involved. A further 4 man-months are provided for short-term consult-
ants associated with date production and the date-packing plant. In addition,
funds have been included in the project for providing short-term overseas
training to suitable Yemeni personnel in project-related disciplines. Specific
training requirements can be identified only after recruitment of HPO staff.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that proposals for overseas
training and qualification of candidates would be the subject of consultation
with IDA.
D. Credit
5.14      Government would channel YD 940,000 (US$2.7 million), or 46% of
total project funds, through NBY for short-, medium- and long-term loans to
those agencies which are either engaged in agriculture or which have business
connected with or related to agriculture in the project area. NBY would repay
the Government over 12 years (including 2 years of grace) with an interest
rate not less than 3% p.a. Of the total sum, YD 500,000 (US$1.5 million)
would be directly recovered from the sub-borrowers. Present lending procedures
of NBY would be adhered to, save that HPO staff would be responsible for
appraising loan requests. Of the total of YD 940,000, short-term lending would
be about 43% (YD 400,000), whereas medium- and long-term lending would amount
to 47% (YD 440,000) and 10% (YD 96,000) respectively. Short-term (seasonal)
loans would be extended to the cooperatives and state farms for fertilizer
and insecticide, mostly in kind, at the rate of 6%. Recoveries would be made
with interest by the local branches of NBY, through transfer payments made by
the local offices of NCHFT and HCU, which are the sole marketing agencies for
major agricultural commodities. Medium-term (5 to 7 years) loans would be
made at 5-1/2% interest, to the cooperatives for pumpsets and to MRS and state
farms for agricultural equipment, again mostly in kind. The long-term loan,
at 5% interest, for a period of ten years with two years' grace, would be
made for the date packing plant (para 4.03) and would be recovered in annual
instalments from the agency managing the plant. During negotiations, assur-
ances were obtained that short-, medium- and long-term loans would be exten-
ded at interest rates of not less than 6, 5-1/2 and 5% respectively, and that
any future upward adjustments of interest rates by NBY would also be applied
to project loans.
5.15      Since MRS would be unable to recover the cost of equipment from the
cooperatives through a further increase in rental rates (para 5.09), it would
not be possible for MRS to repay the subloans received under this project and
to arrange equipment replacements whenever these become necessary. MRS also
does not maintain a depreciation fund, consequently, equipment replacement
becomes a Government responsibility. Therefore, Government would have to
provide financial support to MRS corresponding to the annuity due on subloans
received from the project funds. The cooperatives also would not be able to
fully repay the subloans for pumpsets, as under the Cooperative Law only 20%



- 20 -
of the cooperative fee can be used for this purpose. Such an allocation can
finance only about 3% of replacements at current equipment costs. Therefore,
Government would have to subsidize the cooperatives to the extent necessary to
enable these to repay the subloans for pumpsets and also to underwrite future
pumpset replacements. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
Government that: (a) it would give financial assistance to MRS and coopera-
tives corresponding to the annuity due on their subloans in respect of agri-
cultural equipment and pumpsets; (b) it would undertake to finance from its
own resources future replacements of agricultural equipment and pumpsets for
the project area, whenever such replacements became necessary; and (c) farmer
rental rates and payments for pumpset cost recovery would be reviewed and re-
adjusted periodically, at intervals of not more than three years, so as to
achieve the maximum practicable cost recovery. The review would cover all
major cost-determining factors, including interest rates on agricultural credits,
production taxes and government subsidies.
E. Recovery of Costs
5.16      Of the total project investment, 46% would be in short-, medium- and
long-term loans. The short- and long-term loans would be fully recovered from
the cooperatives and other beneficiaries, but the medium-term loans would be
recovered through Government support (para 5.15). Another 22% would be
invested in rural water supply (11%), research (1%), and the feasibility
study (10%). The two latter categories do not result in quantifiable benefits
and hence no direct recovery of cost would be required. There would be no
investment cost recovery for water supply because of a contribution of volun-
tary labor for construction (Annex 5, para 11). The remaining investment con-
sists of feeder roads (18%), which also provide social benefits to concerned
communities, and project management (14%), and a part of this cost would be
recovered through general taxation on increased production. Consequently, no
project charges are proposed to be levied on project beneficiaries, for recov-
ery of investment costs. Operation and maintenance costs of rural water supply
would be recovered from beneficiaries (para 5.11).
5.17      Investment in the date packing plant would be recovered from profits
made on sales. Product prices set by Government do not normally allow varia-
tions for quality (para 6.04), but in order to induce date growers to bring
quality dates to the plant rather than consuming them, Government would have
to allow the plant to pay a premium for quality dates. To facilitate market-
ing, the ex-plant price of the processed product would have to be about 20%
higher than present prices of lesser quality imports. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that: (a) the producer's price of premium quality
dates would be above that of the other qualities; and (b) the ex-plant price
of processed dates would be at a level that ensured a reasonable return on
investment.



- 21 -
F. Accounts and Audit
5.18      NBY would maintain a record of all project-related expenditures in-
cluding subloans, and disbursements from the project funds. All organizations
connected with project implementation, e.g. BPO, PWD, NWC, NCEFT, HCU and
others, would maintain separate accounts of all project expenditures, and
would have such accounts audited annually by the Central Organization for
Audit, which is responsible for such audits by law. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the project and subloan accounts would be established
and maintained by the organizations concerned and would be audited annually
by the Central Organization for Audit, and that a copy of the audited annual
accounts would be sent to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal
year.
G. Monitoring
5.19      During project implementation, HPO would maintain records of the
inputs furnished to cooperatives and state farms and at harvest would arrange
to collect information on yields. During negotiations, reporting procedures
were agreed for these and other important indicators, and assurances obtained
that similar information would continue to be supplied to IDA for five years
following project completion.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production
6.01      Since no additional water resources are proposed to be developed
until the feasibility study included in the project is completed, there would
be no increase in the cultivated area under the project. Increased production,
therefore, would result only from increased yields. In the case of wheat,
a major part of the yield increase would stem from conversion to high-
yielding Mexican varieties under the project in conjunction with expanded
fertilizer use. No allowance has been made for future shifts in cropping pat-
terns toward higher value crops, which are expected to develop after the road
link with Mukalla and Aden is completed.
6.02      The project would increase the annual net value added of project
area production by 112%. The production of wheat would increase by 88%,
sorghum by 100%, alfalfa by 86%, vegetables by 90% and sesame by 50%. Produc-
tion of dates would increase by only 3% on account of the modest experimental
fertilization program included in the project but there would be additional
benefit from the introduction of a premium price for quality dates. Estimated
production without and with the project and the incremental production are
suimmnrized in the table below and details are given in Annex 2.



- 22 -
Cropped Area             Production
Without   With          Without   With
Prolect   Project       Project   Project   Increment
----- ha ------)        ----- ton -----)   (ton) (Z)
Wheat, high-yielding      1,700      3,660         3,400    10,980    5,820   88
Wheat, local              2,700        740         3,240      1,480 )
Sorghum                   2,200      2,200         2,200     4,400    2,200  100
Alfalfa                     440        440        15,400    28,600   13,200   86
Vegetables                  360        360         2,800     5,330    2,530   90
Sesame                      200        200           120        180       60   50
7,600     7,600
Sorghum, spate-irrigated   500         500           300       300       --    --
Dates                       --         --          9,600     9,900       300    3
B.. Markets
6.03      In varying degrees, domestic production of cereals, vegetables, dates
and fodder crops falls short of demand. It is therefore expected that the
entire incremental production of the proposed project would be absorbed by the
domestic market, much of it in the Fifth Governorate itself. Increased cereal
production is estimated to account for over 60% of the project's incremental
gross value and corresponds to about 20% of present cereal imports into PDRY.
One additional grain silo in the project area is already planned for by Gov-
ernment. Increased production of vegetables (onions, garlic, eggplants and
tomatoes), which may expand further after the road link to Mukalla and Aden
is completed, would contribute to contain upward price pressures stemming
from increased demand in the region's urban areas. PDRY is a net importer of
dates; and the best quality dates grown in the project area, when packed and
marketed in Mukalla and Aden, would replace part of these imports. Such
dates could also find a ready market in those countries where large numbers of
Yemeni emigrants have settled.
C. Prices
6.04      Farm gate and consumer prices for all major agricultural commodities
are fixed by the High Committee on Agriculture, which is headed by the Presi-
dent of the Republic. These prices are mostly uniform throughout the country,
and normally do not allow variations on account of differences in the quality
of produce. Prices of cereals used in the economic analysis are based on
import parity prices derived from the projections provided by the Bank's
Economic Analysis and Projections Department; economic prices of other com-
modities are estimated. Both the economic and the financial prices are given
in Annex 11, Table 3.



- 23 -
D. Subsidies and Taxes
6.05      Subsidies.  At present, supply of fertilizer to cooperatives and
state farms is mostly subsidized; the amount of subsidy depends on whether
fertilizer was received as a grant or imported using the country's resources.
Similarly, all pumping and agricultural equipment, since it was taken over
from previous landowners, has been made available to the cooperatives and MRS,
respectively, without any attempt to set up a depreciation fund for the
replacement of this equipment. Even for the new equipment that has been
recently installed on the state farms, no depreciation fund has been estab-
blished. Rates at which agricultural equipment is rented out by MRS are about
50% of the hourly operation and maintenance costs, and the annual fee charged
by MRS for the maintenance of diesel engines and pumps is not even one-third
of the actual expenses incurred by MRS on this account. A portion of MRS's
losses on agricultural operations is being recovered by the profits that this
agency makes on selling spare parts and repairing equipment belonging to non-
agricultural entities.
6.06      The farm budget for cooperatives (Annex 11, Table 1) indicates that
in the "without project" situation, Government subsidy to agriculture in co-
operatives amounts to 54% of total production costs excluding family labor.
Under the project, the subsidy is proposed to be reduced to about 30% of pro-
duction cost by eliminating subsidy on: (a) fertilizer, (b) operation and
maintenance cost of agricultural equipment (para 5.09), and (c) maintenance
cost of pumpsets (para 5.10). Any further reduction in government subsidy is
not possible in view of only a modest increase in farm incomes (para 6.09).
During negotiations, an assurance was obtained that fertilizer supplied to
project farmers would not be subsidized. Total subsidies to the cooperatives
and the state farms in the area would thus decrease from YD 509,000 (US$1.48
million) without the project to YD 391,000 (US$1.13 million), or by 23% when
the project is fully operational (Annex 11).
6.07      Taxes.  Government imposes a 15% tax on the gross value of cereal
production, and a 5% tax on vegetable production. Furthermore, the coopera-
tives levy a fee of 5% on the gross value of cereal and vegetable production.
Because of the application of the proceeds, the cooperative fee is essentially
also public revenue. The marketable surplus of dates is also subjected to
taxation, but, since sales are limited, revenues from such transactions are
negligible. The project is expected to increase local public revenues from
YD 142,000 (US$0.41 million) to YD 269,000 (US$0.78 million), or by 95%.
6.08      The combined effect of reduced subsidies and increased public rev-
enues under the project would be a reduction in the annual drain on the Govern-
ment budget by the cooperatives from about YD 309,000 (US$0.9 million) without
the project to about YD 103,000 (US$0.3 million) with the project, or a
reduction of 67%. Details of subsidies and taxes are in Annex 11.



- 24 -
E. Producer Income
6.09      Two farm budgets have been prepared - one for all cooperatives and
the other for the state farms. The project is estimated to generate, over
a three year period, a 23Z increase in the net annual income of cooperative
members relative to the "without-project" level. The marginal return to labor
under the project would be slightly higher than average. Average family
incomes from agriculture in the cooperatives are expected to increase from
YD 132 (US$384) to YD 163 (US$472) (Annex 11, Table 1). The net income
realized by state farms is also expected to increase by 23%, from YD 44,000
(US$128,000) to YD 54,000 (US$157,000) over the three year period (Annex 11,
Table 2). The internal financial rate of return to investment in the date
packing plant is estimated at 112. Further details are given in Annex 11 and
some are summarized in the table below.



- 25 -
Cooperatives             State Farms
Item                                Without     With        Without      With
Project   Project       Project   Project
(-                ha------- ---------)
Annually cultivated area             6,600      6,600         1,500     1,500
Average cultivated area per eber   1 .3          1.3            --        -_
---------  (YD    1000)     -   - --------
Gross'value of production            1,142.8   1,814.9          187.1     310.7
Less:
Production costs excluding
family labor                       790.2   1,095.6         201.5      273.2
Net value of production                352.6      719.3         (14.4)     37.5
Plus:
Total subsidies                      427.2      333.4         82.2       57.2
Less:
Interest on short-term loan            --         8.9          --         2.0
Income before taxes                    779.8   1,043.8          67.8       92.7
Less:
Government tax                        86.5      168.4         23.7       38.7
Cooperative fees                      31 .8      61 .8         --         --
Subtotal, taxes, fees                118.3      230.2         23.7       38.7
Total Net Income                       661.5      813.6          44.1      54.0
Incremental Net Income                            152.1                     9.9
Incremental Net Income (%)                         23                      23
Net Income per Member (YD)             132.3      162.7
Net Income per Member (US$)            384        472



- 26 -
F. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
6.10      Main Benefits.  The project would increase the annual net value
added of agricultural production in the area by about 110%, which in terms of
gross value would amount to an increase of 60%. Other benefits would include
the transition of a subsistence economy into the production of marketable sur-
pluses, which would facilitate the shift toward higher value crops once the
new road link to the coast is completed. The increased volume of public
revenues and the downward adjustment in input subsidies under the project,
would reduce Government's net annual subsidy to agriculture in the area from
YD 367,000 (US$1.06 million) to YD 122,000 (US$0.35 million), or by 67%. The
project would result in a net annual foreign exchange saving of about US$1.0
million, discounting a project-induced expansion of demand. The proposed
date packing plant would supply the urban consumer with a quality product at
modest additional cost, it would materially reduce spoilage losses and it would
replace part of present imports. The feasibility study would produce data
which could result in a future development scheme in the area. Experimental
work on sand dune fixation would result in the reclamation of some areas no
longer cultivated. Establishment of HPO and technical assistance and training
furnished under the project would build an important institution in the area.
6.11      Beneficiaries.  Principal beneficiaries of the project would be
about 5,000 members of the production cooperatives or an estimated 30,000 per-
sons. The feeder roads provided under the project would link about 20 villages
with the main west-east road. The water supply schemes would improve the
health status of about 40,000 people. About 300,000 man-days of work would
be created by the construction of feeder roads and water supply schemes.
G. Economic Evaluation
6.12      Economic benefits of the project would arise from a substantial
increase in yields of all annual crops produced, and a modest increase in
value added of packaged dates. The economic rate of return (ERR) to all proj-
ect costs, excluding the feasibility study, with agricultural labor valued at
one-third of the wage rate, is estimated at 17%. No allowance is made for
additional benefits of infrastructural elements. The exclusion of the rural
water supply schemes from project costs increases the ERR to 21%. The ERR to
investment in the date packing plant is estimated at 11%. A 25% increase in
the cost stream would reduce these rates of return to 8%, 11Z and 5% respective-
ly. For the date packing plant this 25% cost increase would represent a very
conservative view, since cost estimates for the plant already include a higher
contingency allowance than for other components. Details of the economic eva-
luation are in Annex 12.



- 27 -
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7 01      Agreement having been reached on the principal issues referred to in
Chapters 4 and 5, and subject to the conditions of effectiveness described in
para 5.02, the project is suitable for an IDA credit of $7 million on standard
terms. The borrower would be the Government of the People's Democratic
Republic of Yemen.






APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPIE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF IMDEN
Population (October 1973 Census)
Locality                     Population       No. of        No. of      No.of       Number of Administrative Divisions
Households     Rooms    Buildings   Hamlets   Villages  Streets    Town
Divisions
Seyun  (town)                  19,248          3,077        9,255      3,033         -           -        227         2
Seyun  (rural area)            24,389          4,242        9,017       3,328         7         38         -          _
Tarim                          42,906          7,488       16,336       6,261       39          30        437         1
Shibam                         28,561          5,329       11,158      4,348        65          36        69          2
Sah                             9,965          1,866        2,945       1,906       89          13       125          1
Soom                            5,475          1,108          940       1,043       25           8         6          1
Seyun District                130,544         23,110       49,651      19,919      225         125       864          7
Al-Qatn                        26,355          4,285        7,035       3,244        66         48        46          1
Hajr-Al Sayar                   1,203            254          267         523       42          10        15          1
Wadi-Sar                        3,781            749        1,244         676        36           7       18          1
Horah                           9,972          1,854        3,039       1,702       40          17        34          1
Wadi Rakhia                     6,803          1,401        2,306       1,293       35          16         9          1
Qatn  District                 48,114          8,583       13,891       7,438      219          98       122          5
Project area                  178,658         31,693       63,542      27,357      444         223       986         12
5th Governorate               450,657         79,568      154,658      74,261      945         537    2,425          31 
Total PDRY                  1,590,275        282,674      460,872    241,545    3,609        2,358    6,177         135
Source:  Central Statistical Office, Aden



ANNEX 1
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBIIC OF YEMEN
Summary of Foreign Trade /l
Item                       1970      1971      1272       1973
(_______------------- YD 'OOC - -------
Exports and re-exports      6o.8      44.0      41.3       39.5
Petroleum products          45.0      29.2      30.1       28.9
Ships' and aircraft's
bunkers                   4.0        3.6       3.3        3.1
General merchandise         11.8      11.2       7.9        7.5
Of which: re-exports         8.0       7.1       3.2        2.1
Imports                    83.3       64.9      57.2       59.8
Petroleum products          33.8      25.7      25.8       26.2
Of which:  crude oil        33.2      23.8      22.9       23.7
General merchandise         49.5      39.2      31.4       33.6
/1  Excluding imports, exports & re-exDorts by land.
L   Before 1972 the Foreign Trade Statistics covers general trade;
from 1972-1973 the data cover special trade, after foundation of
the Free Zone Area. Also 'rom 1972 the data cover imports by
Government and by foreign companies.
Source: Central Statistical Office, Aden.



ANNEX 1
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
WADI HA1RAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
-Li
Composition of Exports and Re-exports
Item                               1970        1971         1972         1973
(--------------- YD 'OOO ----------------)
1. Exports                           49,524      33,200       34,697       33,927
Food and beverages                 1,228       1,530        1.950        2,182
Lried fish                           239         718          396          137
Fish, crustacea, mollusks::
fresh chilled or frozen           226          429        1,354        1,808
Cottonseed                           289          90           15           -
Coffee, not roasted                  337         202          182          234
Other                                137           91           3            3
Industrial supplies               3,312        2,508        2,603       3,158
kiades ait skins                     439         499          492          320
Cotton, lint                       1,751       1,528        1,646        2,139
Salt                                 141         220           25          268
Other                                981         261          440          431
Fuel and lubricants              44,984       29,162       30,14i      28,587
2.  Re-exports                         7,285       6,848        2,897        2,088
Food and beverages                 2,260       1 ,236         872          678
Industrial supplies               3,331        3,920        1,281          759
Consumer goods                     1,099       1,254          582          343
Other                                595         438          162          308
Total : (1+2)                    56.809       40,048       37.594      36,015
3.  Ships' bunkers, etc.              4).327       3,963        3,665        3,475
Ships' bunkers and fuel
supplies to airlines            4,011        3,554        3,332       3,138
Ships' stores                        316         409          333         337
Total : (1+2+3)                61.136       44,011      41,259       39,490
/1 The table does not cover exports and re-exports by land.
Source:  Central Statistical Office, Aden



ANNEX 1
Table 4
APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S IEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Composition of Imports
Item                              1970       1971       1972      1973
(------------ YD  000 --)
Food and beverages                  20 368    13.524    13,967    17842
Rice                                 2,940     1,138    1,280       2
Sheep and goats                      1,423     1,160      1,032       788
Wheat flour                          2,137     1,022        798     2,548
Coffee not roasted                     156       227        401       261
Sugar                                1,544     1,536      2,560     2,685
Tea                                  1,090       658        641     1,343
Oilseeds                               740       897        813       863
Other                               10,338     6,886      6,442     6,953
Industrial supplies                 14,022    12873       7.772     7.592
Textiles                             7,058     5,878      3,346     2
Tobacco, unmanufactured                330       115          9        -
Hides and skins                        791       380        155          7
Other                                5,853     6,500      4,262     4,977
Fuels and lubricants               34,309    26.564    26 080    26,919
Crude petroleum                    33,239    23,829                23,719
Petroleum products                     570     1,895      2,869     2,433
Lubricating oil                       407        793        276       756
Other                                   93        47         29         11
Capital equipment                    1,562     1,585      2 220     1.575
Machinery and other capital          1,5Z      1 ,133                 978
equipment
Parts and accessories                 470        452        445       597
Transport equipment                 2,385      1.983      1 981     1.345
Passenger motor vehicles               289       456                  222
Parts and accessories               1,566      1,228      1,024       913
Other                                  530       299        502       210
Consumer goods                      9,372      7.403     4.895      4.458
Darable                             1,221        995        739       642
Other                                8,151     6,408      4,156     3,816
Other                                1.299       941        250        38
Of which: Qat                        1,259       918        225
Total                       83.317    64.873    57,165    59.69
Source: Central Statistical Office, Aden



APPRAISAL OF
WADE HA IWWT AGRICLTURL pROJECT
PSQPLE'S ]EhOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Consolidated Balance Sheet of National Bank of Yemen
DecbrSet
1969     1970   1971     1972      1973     1973     1974
---------------------- YD millions -----------------      )
ILiabilitle8
Total deposits, of which:                        13.82    13.97   15.70   16.53    20.29    20.34    24.14
Government deposits:  Demand                   (0.08)   (o.o4)  (0.45)  (0.47)   (2.34)   (1.98)   (2.06)
Time                    (1.71)   (0.24)  (1.22)   1. 16)   (1.31)   (1.46)   (1.69)
Other deposits:  Dwmand                        (5.59)   (4.57)  (5.85    603       7.73     8.09)  (11.54)
Time and savings             (6-45)   (8.10)  (6.96)  (7.89)   (7.46)   (7.51)   (7.41)
Deposits against letters of credit               (--)   (1.02)  (1.22)  (0.98)   (1.45)   (1.30)   (1.44)
Credit from Bank of Yemen                           --     1.02      --                _         _         _
Balances due to local banks                       1.58       --      --      --        --       --        --
Balances due to foreign banks                     0.88     0.50    0.36    0.61      a.69     1.11      0.98
Bills payable in foreign currencies                 --       --    1.47    1.49      2.48     2.30      3.09
Deposits in foreign currencies                      --       --      --       --     0.52       --      0.81
Capital accounts                                  0.40     0.35    3.37    3.48      3.65     3.65      3.85
Other liabilities                                 7.21     4.47    1.60    1.49      2.22     2.21      3.15
Total liabilities = assets                 23.89    20.31   22.49   23.61              29.61    46.Z
Assets
Cash                        2                     0.47     0.36    0.53    0.58      0.58     0.82      1.13
Balances with Bank of Yemen                       0.80     0.56    0.47    3.05      6.37     7.46      3.30
Balances with local banks                         1.63       --      --       --       --       --        --
Balances with foreign banks                       5.20     1.71    3.37    2.33      2.28     2.68      2.44
Bills receivable in foreign currencies              --       --    1.42    0.82      0.59     1.18      1.02
Credit to Government                                --       --    0.30    0.12      0.19     0.22      0.29
Loans and advances                                9.08     9.92    9.55    7.86      8.33     7.76    16.52
Claims on the Economic Organization                 --       --    3.47    3.31      3.36     3.36      3.36
Investments: Local                                0.40     0.25    0.05    2.05      2.05     2.05      2.05
Foreign                             0.10        --      --    0.01      0.01     0.01     0.06
Other assets                                      6.22     7.52    3.33    3.48      6.09     4.07      5.85
/   Effective  April 1970 the National Bank of Yemen is the only commercial bank operating in the country
in accordance with Law No. 37 of 1969.
j2 Prior to August 1973  Currency Authority.
Source:  Bank of Yemen. (reproduced from "Recent Economic Developments in PIRY", by IMF)
April 1975



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Agriculture
1.        Geography.  The area of Wadi Hadramawt is located in the central
part of the country, about 500 km from Aden. The Wadi itself is a narrow,
flat-bottomed valley, about 100 km long between Raynin in the west and Qasm
in the east, at an average altitude of 600 m above sea level. In the north
and south it is bordered by flat-topped cliffs that rise 1,400 to 1,800 m
above sea level. The valley is about 10 km wide at Haynin, narrows to about
2 km east of Qasm, and has an average width of 5-6 km. Including the lower
ends of the northern and the southern tributaries, the total area of the
valley, within the project limits, is about 1,200 km2.
2.        Climate.  One weather station was in existence at Seyun from 1958,
but was abandoned in 1966 and reestablished in 1971. The climate is hot and
arid. Temperatures are high from April to September and vary from 38C to
43'C (mean maximum) or 18C to 26C (mean minimum).  During the cooler months
(November to February), the temperatures are milder and vary from 29C to
33'C (mean maximum) or 10C to 13C (mean minimum).  Relative humidity varies
from 64% in January to 35% in June. Rain falls in intensive showers of a
few minutes duration mostly in the months of July, August and September, and
usually covers small areas. The average annual rainfall is in the range of
50 mm to 100mm, but because of its erratic and spotty nature it has a limited
usefulness for agriculture. Wind speed varies from 6.0 km/hour in April to
2.0 km/hour in December. Occasional sandstorms that cause damage to farm
lands are experienced during April and May.
3.        Soils.  During 1969-71, a Russian team carried out a soil survey in
Wadi Hadramawt and covered about 120,000 ha. This work included a reconnais-
sance soil survey at a scale of 1:100,000. Soils data were obtained from
185 test pits and 152 soil samples were analyzed. The result of the Russian
survey is summarized below:



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Land Description                                    Area
(ha)        (%)
Suitable for irrigation                       39,000         33
Partially suitable for irrigation             11,000          9
Unsuitable for irrigation on account of
salt content, texture or topography          70,000         58
Total                              120,000        100
4.        Most soils have formed by processes of denudation and accumulation.
The soils cultivated in the Wadi basically consist of sandy loams, and are
without profile differentiation and low in humus content (up to 1.5%)._ They
are also very poor in available phosphates.  A high proportion of these soils
tends to be strongly saline following centuries long application of slightly
saline irrigation water without adequate leaching.  Because of high (30 to 40%)
calcium carbonate levels, crust formations near the surface render the tilling
of these soils difficult. The soils are mildly alkaline (pH 7.1 to 7.5) and
have a cation exchange capacity of 14 milli-equivalents per 100 grams. Due
to their light nature, drainage is not a problem and all soils presently cul-
tivated are suitable for growing cereals, fodder and vegetables.
5.        Irrigation.  All cultivation in Wadi Hadranawt is dependent on irri-
gation, the most reliable source for which is groundwater. The availability
of groundwater for the project and the requirement for project crops is dis-
cussed in Annex 3. A few hundred hectares are also cultivated every year by
spate irrigation from surface water brought into the project area mainly by
side wadis.
6.        Crop Production.  Crop production in the project area is mostly on
the alluvial terraces close to the cliffs where soils and groundwater are of
a better quality and drainage is adequate. It is estimated that, within the
general limits of the project area, 12,000 ha are commanded from the existing
open wells and tubewells, but only 8,000 ha are cultivated. About half of the
cultivated area (4,000 ha) is under field crops only; the other half, which
contains about 200,000 date palms with an average density of about 50 palms
per hectare, is intercropped. It is estimated that 2,400 ha of the inter-
cropped area are under field crops and the remaining 1,600 ha is under date
palms. The total cultivated area excluding that under the date palms, there-
fore, amounts to 6,400 ha (Table 1).
7.        The cultivated area is organized into five production cooperatives
and four state farms. The cropping pattern in the project area Table 1 is
essentially the same: about 87% area is under wheat and sorghum (respectively
61% and 26% in the cooperatives, and 50% and 33% on the state farms); the
balance is under alfalfa (6%), vegetables (5%) and sesame (2%). Wheat pro-
duction was limited to local varieties up to 1972, when a high yielding variety



ANNEX 2
Page 3
imported from India was tried out and proved successful. Of the nearly
4,000 ha under wheat, about 1,200 ha (30%) are sown to the high yielding
variety.
8.        The area cultivated by spate irrigation varies widely from year to
year, and it is estimated that at least 500 ha are cultivated every year with
sorghum. In addition, about 120,000 date palms benefit from the spates origi-
nating from the tributaries. Another 80,000 date palm trees, mostly located
in the upper reaches of Wadi Idm, receive irrigation from the perennial flows
of this Wadi.
9.        It is estimated that without the project, the area irrigated within
the limits of Wadi Hadramawt project will increase by 1,030 ha, which is the
presently planned expansion for the state farms and is partly being developed
with U.S.S.R. bilateral assistance. Since so additional area is to be developed
under the project, the irrigated area excluding the area under date palms,
both without and with the project, will remain at 7,600 ha. Under both situa-
tions, the cropping pattern will also remain as at present, since Government's
agricultural policy emphasises increased cereal production. The only change
envisaged is that with the project, about 83% of the wheat area would be
planted to the high yielding variety as compared to only 39% without the
project because of limited fertilizer use (para 10) and lack of extension
services (para 14).
10.       Fertilization.  Chemical fertilizers were introduced in the Wadi in
1972, in connection with the field trials for high yielding wheat varieties
on the state farms. Since then, about 150 tons of fertilizers have been con-
sumed in the Wadi. Presently fertilizer is applied only to the high yielding
wheat, but in a much smaller dosage than that recommended by the UNDP/FAO
research staff because of limited allocations made by Government for this
area. Fertilizer use in the project area is expected to increase over the
years but at a slow rate, and would largely depend on Government's alloca-
tion for the area as fertilizers can only be imported by HCU. Since ferti-
lizer use without the project would be smAll in relation to its use under the
project, it is not taken into account in calculating the incremental require-
ment for the project. Based on the recommendations of the research staff, the
requirement of urea and superphosphate for the project crops for year 3, when
all of the project area would be fertilized, are summarized in Table 2.
11.       Crop Protection.  No insecticides or pesticides are being used in
the project area at present except for small quantities in the state farms.
Very limited information is available about the pests and diseases that
affect the production of field crops and dates. Without the project, some
crop protection measures would no doubt be adopted, but most of these would
be limited to the state farms. With the project, it is envisaged that use
of pesticides and insecticides would extend over the whole project area.
During the project year 3, the total requirement of all insecticides (mainly
Carbaryl, Dieldrin, DDT, Dimethoate and Malathion) would amount to about
20 tons.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
12.       Crop Yields.  Local varieties of wheat are of long straw, lodge
easily and are not resistant to rust. The per hectare yield of these vari-
eties does not exceed one ton. The high yielding varieties with insufficient
fertilization produce about 2.0 tons/ha. With proper fertilization and crop
protection measures a yield of 3.5 tons/ha has been obtained from field trials.
Yields from sorghum are about 1.0 ton/ha. Winter sorghum yields are somewhat
higher than the summer crop because of more favorable weather. With the proj-
ect, when new types are introduced and are properly fertilized and protected
from insect attacks, it should be possible to obtain at least 2.0 tons/ha.
With the use of fertilizers, insecticides and extension efforts, it is esti-
mated that the yields of alfalfa, vegetables and sesame would at least double.
Present yield of dates is low but can be increased, at least in those areas
where date palms are irrigated, provided proper fertilizers and insecticides
are used. Since it is not certain that the increased yield would balance the
cost of these inputs, field trials would be undertaken on about 100 ha of date
plantation. The following table summarizes the present yields of various
crops and their projected yield both without project and with the project.
Crop                                Present        Without         With
Situation       Project        Project
(-----------------ton/ha------- --
Wheat
High yielding                            1.8             2.2             3.0
Local                                    1.2             1.2             2.0
Sorghum
Well-irrigated                           1.0             1.2             2.0
Spate-irrigated                          0.5             0.6             0.6
Alfalfa                                   30.0            35.0            65.0
Vegetables
Onions                                   7.0             9.0            17.0
Tomatoes                                 6.0             8.0            15.0
Garlic                                   4.0             5.0             8.0
Egg Plants                               5.0             6.0            13.0
Sesame                                     0.5             0.6             0.9
(----------------- kg/tree---- ----- --)
Dates
Well-irrigated                          30.0            30.0            50.0 /1
Spate-irrigated                         10.0            10.0            10.0
/1   With fertilization.
Source: Mission estimates



ANNEX 2
Page 5
13.       Agricultural Research.  Agricultural research in PDRY is carried
out by the Research Station at El-Kod and a few regional substations, one
of which is located at Seyun in the project area. Since 1969, UNDP/FAO has
been providing technical assistance in this field and for training of field-
level extension workers. The first phase of this program was completed in
1971 and the second (enlarged) phase, under which ten experts in crop produc-
tion, horticulture, soils, plant protection, forestry, agricultural economics,
planning and training are presently employed, would end in March 1976. Main
emphasis is on applied research, and after successful trials were carried out
on high yielding varieties of wheat, sorghum and millet, these varieties were
planned on small areas in various parts of the country. The third phase of
this program would extend for another four or five years at the end of the
current phase.
14.       The research substation at Seyun, which became operational in 1974,
employs two Yemeni graduates (an agronomist and a horticulturist), and nine
assistants. Six of these assistants are graduates of the national Nasser
Institute of Agriculture and two followed the UNDP/ILO-assisted training
course for cooperative managers. The technical qualifications of the station's
personnel are generally satisfactory. Frequent visits by UNDP/FAO experts
from the El-Kod station provide technical guidance to the substation staff.
The program being followed by the substation is well conceived and oriented
towards the essential problems relating to production of project crops, the
only omission being the exclusion of research on date production. Under the
project, however, an experimental program covering this aspect would be pro-
vided on about 100 ha of date palm plantations.
15.       Agricultural Extension and Training.  No organized extension ser-
vice exists anywhere in the country. Some extension service is being provided
to the state farms by the agricultural experts employed under the UNDP/FAO
research project. The project would provide for an extension service in the
project area to ensure proper distribution and utilization of fertilizers and
insecticides and proper dissemination of the recommendations of the research
substation and the El-Kod research station. Ten extension agents working
under the control of two supervisors would provide this service to the project
area. Facilities for training low- and medium-level farm workers and leaders
from the cooperative farms exist at Giar (near Aden), and several hundred
workers have been trained since 1972. Training is imparted by UNDP/FAO ex-
perts, as part of the research and training project, through six-week courses.
June 20, 1975



APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Cultivated Areas
Crop                                         Present                               Without Project                                With Project
State                                      State                                     State         Total
Cooperatives    Farms       Total          Cooperatives    Farms       Total         Cooperatives    Farms       Area        h
----------------------------------------------------ha-------------------------------------------------------)
Wheat (High Yielding)               1,000          150       1,150             1,000           700      1,700             2,960          700       3,660      48
Wheat (Local)                       2,700           --       2,700             2,700           --       2,700               740          --          740      10
Sorghum                             1,600          100       1,700             1,600          600       2,200             1,600          600       2,200      29
Alfalfa                               370           20         390               370            70        440               370           70         440       6
Vegetables                            300           20         320               300           60         360               300           60         360       5
Sesame                                130           10         140               130           70         200               130           70         200       2
Total                           6,100          300       6,400             6,100        1,500       7,600            6,100         1,500       7,600    100
=           =                 =                                               
Sorghum (Spate-Irrigated)             500                      500               500                      500               500                      500      --
(------------------------- -   --------------------trees----------_____-                                         -
Dates
Well-Irrigated                  200,000          --      200,000           200,000          --      200,000          200,000           --      200,000      50
Flow-Irrigated                   80,000          --       80,000            80,000          --       80,000            80,000          --       80,000      20
Spate-Irrigated                 120,000          --      120,000           120,000          --      120,000          120,000                   120,000     30
Total Dates                  400,000                 400,000            400,000                  400,000          400,000                  400,000    100
Source:  Local authorities and uission estimates.
April 1975



ANNEX 2
Table 2
AF7RUISL OF
WLDI HADRAMLWT AaRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DUIOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YMN
Fetilimer b oufrnmnt
(ProJect Tar 3) /1
Application Rate                  guntity
Crop                       Area       Urea    SuperphoJphate         Ursa    SUp rphomphate
(ha)         -kha-                       ---------ton ---------)
Wheat (High Yielding)       3,660      250          100                915         366
Wheat (Local)                 740        75          50                56            37
Sorghum                    2,200 .    100            --               220            --
Alfalfa                       440       50          200                 22           88
Vegetables                    360      250          100                90           36
Sesame                       200       100           --                20            --
Subtotal                 7,600        --                          1,323          527
Date Palms /2                 __        __           __                37           23
Total                                                             1,360          550
Unit Cost (ID/ton)          --        --           --               185          205
Total Cost (YD'OOO)         --        --           --               252          113
/1  Requirement of proJect year 3 equals total requirement of year 1 plus incresmntal
requirements of years 2 and 3.
/2 Ad hoc provision to study effect of fertilisers on yield.
Sources Mission estimates.
April 1975



ANNEX 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Water Availability and Requirements
Surface Water
1.        Occurrence.  The total area drained by Wadi Hadramawt is estimated
at 114,000 km2, of which 90,000 km2 covering the desertic plain of Ramlat
Sabtaine and the eastern slopes of the Yemen mountains lies to the west of the
project area and makes no significant surface water contribution to the proj-
ect area. The remaining 24,000 km2 is the effective catchment influencing
the water resources of the project are I, of which 7,000 km2 is the total of
the northern tributaries and 16,000 km of the southern tributaries. Since
the annual rainfall over the Wadi catchment averages around 60 mm, and is
normallv in intensive and spotty showers, the resulting runoff from the tribu-
taries (which mostly have impervious catchments) is often violent and lasts
from a few minutes to a few hours. None of the tributaries flows permanently,
except for Wadi Idm which does carry some surface flow for a few kilometers
in its upper reaches. When floods occur in the Wadi, they are at irregular
and infrequent intervals and are generally contributed by the southern tribu-
taries (Wadi Duan, Wadi Bin Ali and Wadi Idm). Most floods occur in early
April (spring), July and September (summer). None of the wadis is gauged.
An analysis of the data collected by some visiting experts indicates that
most floods (from the side wadis) have discharges varying from 15 m3/sec to
200m3/sec, the peaks last only a few minutes, and the flood waves recede in
a few hours.
2.        Since the bed of Wadi Hadramawt is sandy, rainfall over the Wadi
bed rarely causes flooding. Floods from the tributaries infiltrate and re-
charge the groundwater as soon as they reach permeable sandstone or alluvial
formations, that are generally found before the tributaries join the main Wadi.
Any surplus runoff flows within the main Wadi in a meandering course, often
reaching Qasm and occasionally even the Gulf.
3.        Present Utilization.  Twenty-three stone masonry weirs, in various
stages of disrepair, exist on the tributaries of the Wadi and divert their
flood waters into rudimentary canals. Some of these canals are large and
distribute water through branch canals. Farmers construct earthern dykes
on the branch canals, main canals or the tributaries in an attempt to divert
the flood waters onto their lands. The masonry weirs also perform the func-
tion of retaining the flood water and increasing infiltration and groundwater
recharge. It is estimated that 2,000 ha are under the command of the existing
weirs and the rudimentary canal system but only about 500 ha are irrigated



ANNEX 3
Page 2
and cultivated each year. In a year of exceptionally good rainfall, a much
larger area may be irrigated. Sorghum is the main crop on spate-irrigated
land. A number of date palms (estimated at 120,000) which are scattered
throughout the area under spate irrigation also benefit.
4.        Future Requirements.  It is recognized that due to the insufficiency
of rainfall, its erratic nature and the unreliability of resulting spates,
expansion of spate irrigation cannot be planned. Agricuitural production
from the areas cultivated from surface flow, therefore, would continue to be
highly variable, as in the past. The proposed feasibility study (Annex 7)
would, however, explore the rehabilitation of some of the existing weirs either
from the point of view of improving surface irrigation or increasing ground-
water recharge.
Groundwater
5.        Occurrence.  Groundwater is the main source of irrigation in Wadi
Hadramawt. The Wadi bed consists of alluvial deposits composed of loam, sand
and gravel, which extend to several meters in depth. These deposits are
underlain by cretaceous sandstones and limestones. Groundwater occurs in
these strata almost throughout, but at depths that very from 5 m to 30 m with-
in the main Wadi and at depth exceeding 30 m in the side wadis. Specific
yields of the water-bearing strata vary from 110 m3 per day for sandy loam
to 300 m3 per day for gravel. The groundwater reservoir of Wadi Hadramawt
is replenished by rainfall, surface runoff, and irrigation applications.
6.        Present Utilization.  At present, 2,152 open wells and 81 tubewells
in the cooperatives, and 21 tubewells in the state farms provide water for
cultivation within the project area. Prior to 1949, when diesel pumps were
introduced in the area, water was drawn from the open wells by animals, a
large number of which used to die in years of drought when there was a short-
age of fodder. Now all wells are operated by diesel pumpsets. The average
flow from an open well is estimated at 6 I/sec, while the discharge from
tubewells averages about 15 1/sec in the cooperatives, and about 25 1/sec on
the state farms. Most wells are pumped about 7 to 10 hours daily for an
average of 300 days a year. The total annual extraction, at present, is
estimated at 128 Mm3 (Table 2). Investigations made by the Russian mission
(1969-71) and Dar-Al-Handasah (Lebanon) indicate that during the 10-year
period 1961 to 1971, the subsoil water level was lowered by about 2.5 m in
the east (near Tarim), and about 6 m in the west (Shibam and Qatn). However,
this does not necessarily mean overpumping from the aquifer, unless it is so
proved by the proposed feasibility study.
7.        Future Requirements.  Water requirements of the project crops were
calculated by the Blaney-Criddle method and are given in Table 1. In these
calculations, the effective rainfall was assumed to be nil and adequate
allowance was made for land preparation ijrigations. Water requirement for
irrigated date palms was assumed at 125 m per palm per year. The overall
efficiency of irrigation was taken as 50%, which includes high seepage losses



ANNEX 3
Page 3
in the unlined distribution ditches. Gross water requirement of the project
area would amount to 160.8 Mm3, of which 138.8 Mm3 would be the requirement
of the area under cooperative farming (including date palms) and 22.0 Mm3 of
the future area under state farms (1,500 ha).
8.        Future Availability.  The requirement of 138.8 Mm3 in the coopera-
tives would be met from the existing open wells (2,152) and the tubewells
(81) by increasing the annual pumping hours from 2,400 to 2,730. The in-
creased hours would result in an additional extraction of about 14%. The
requirement of 22.0 Mm3 for the state farms would be met by the existing tube-
wells (21) and an additional 43 wells that Government has already planned to
install on the state farms under USSR bilateral assistance (Annex 4). All 64
wells would have to work about 3,820 hours annually to meet the water require-
ment of 1,500 ha for the state farms.
9.        Water Quality.  Groundwater quality varies substantially from one
part of the Wadi to the other. As a general rule, salinity is lowest near
the junction of a major tributary and gradually increases in both the eastern
and western directions. Similarly, salinity increases in the northerly direc-
tion. The electrical conductivity varies from 0.5 to 5 mmhos/cm. Water from
most of the wells is useable for irrigation with proper management.
June 20, 1975



APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWr AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Water Requireements
OCT.        NOV,        DEC.       JAN.        FEB,       MAR.        APR         MAYj          JUNE     JULY        AUG,        SEP.       YEARE
PROJECT CROPS
WHEATm
SORGHUM. SUMMER-                                                                                                                 -         -
SORGHUM. WINTER-                                                                                                                                        --
ALFALFA
VEGETABLES                                                                   I
SESAME-                                                                                                                                                 --
CROPPED AREA            WATER REOT.
GATES                              -           -                          -             -                                                                      
STATE       COS         SFTATE      COP
FARMS      COP           ARMS       COP
NET WATER REQUIREMENT (e,3/ha)                                                                                                                                                         (e.3/h.)
WHEAT                                             590        720        1,160      1,330        1,000        RO0                                                                  5,780         700       3,700        4.0        21.4
SORGHUM, SUMNER                                                                                   560        980      2,340       2,570        2,050                              8,500         SSO         400        1.3         3.4
OROHSEN, WINTER                    1,790         980                                                                                            930      1,340       2,260       7,300         450       1,200        3.3         8.8
ALFALFA                              1,620      1,050        550          740         940       1,400      1,970       2,580      2,900        3,140      2,890       2,270      22,100          70         370        i.6         8.2
VEGETABLES                          1,000         850        850        1,000         900                                                                   700       S,000       6,300          60         300        0.4         1.9
SESAlIE                   ,         1,760       1,050                                                                                            630        960       1,400       2,000          70         130        0.4         0.7
FIELD CROPS (STATE FARMS)                7325       701        396          616         701         590        647         354         392         660        610         089       7,291       1,500                   1-1.0
FELD CROPS (COEAIE)537                             679        512          798         908         751        778         310         344        521         494         661       7,272                   6,100                   44.4
NET WATER REOUIREMEN  (mEe3)                                                                                                                                                             (m3 )    ___         _________               ____
FIEL  CROPS (STATE FARMS)              1.1        1.1        0.6          0.9         1.1         0.9        1.0         .5.        0.6          1.0        0.9         1.3        11.0
F1IELD CROPS (COOPERATIVES)    ~     3.3         4.1        3.1          4.9        5.8          4.5        4.8         1.9        2.1          3.2        3.0         4.0        44.4
DATE PALMS                            2.0         2.0        1.0          1.0        2.0          2.0        2.5         2.5        2.5          2.5        2.5         2.5        25.0
TOTAL NEIT                          6.4         7.2        4.7          6.8       08.6         -7.4       -8.3         4.9        5.2          6.7        6.4         7.8        80.4
TOTAL GROSS L                      12.8        14.4        9.4         13.6       17.2         14.8       16.6         9.8       10.4         13.4       12.8        15.6       160.8
Weighted average requiremnt of one hectare.
2Total requirement of 1 ,500 hB io state fants.
Total, requirement of 6,100 ha Sn Cooperatives, e .. pt datB pabls.
Requirment at 125 m3/year/pal.;   200,000 pabst. 
At 50% overall efficienlcy.
JOuR 1975



ANNEX 3
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEKOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Groundwater Availability
Item                            Average       Average        Estimated
Number         Discharge      Annual          Annual
(1/sec)     Pamage         Extraction
(hou-rs)T (Mm3)-
Present
Cooperatives
Open Wells  2,152               6.0        2,4oo /3         111.6
Tubewell       81              15.0        2,400             10.5
Subtotal                                                  122.1
State Farms
Tubewell       21              25.0        3,30CY'            6.2
Total                                                     128.3
Future /I
Coo eratives
Open Well  2,152               6.0        2,730 4          126 8
Tubewell      81              15.0        2,730 I4          12.0
Subtotal                                                 138.8
State Farms                                                    22.0
Tubewell       64              25.5        3,820 /           2
Total                                                     160.8
/1 At 8 hours per day for 300 days
L2 At 11 hours per day for 300 days.
/3 With and without project
/T Actual requirements from Table 2.
April 1975



ANNEX 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMIAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Land Tenure, Cooperatives and State Farms
Land Tenure
1.        A farm survey of the project area, carried out in 1972 by Dar-al-
Handasah (Lebanon), established that 70% of the area was in ownerships of 8 ha
or less and 30% was in holdings of above 8 ha. Of the 175 farms that were
sampled, 14% were cultivated by the owners and 86% by sharecroppers. The
cropped area was approximately 50% of the farm size. Very little fragmentation
of land existed as about 90% farms were in one parcel.
2.        The Agrarian Reform Law of 1970, whose application was not extended
to Wadi Hadramawt until 1972, abolished the traditional sharecropping systems
and set ceilings (8 ha irrigated and 16 ha non-irrigated) to privately held
land; land in excess of these ceilings was to be expropriated. It also pro-
vided for the confiscation of all land and property of the rulers of the old
regime and of their families, ministers and agents, and all Waqf lands. All
confiscated and expropriated lands were vested in the State, who was to
organize it into production cooperatives and state farms for exploitation
according to the national agricultural development plan. The users of
cooperative farms were specified in the Law as (i) landless agricultural
workers, (ii) poor farmers, and (iii) citizens who had migrated from the
cities and the desert. A Central Committee in the Ministry of Agriculture
and Agrarian Reforms (MAAR) was established to implement the provisions of
the Law.
3.        Soon after the application of the Agrarian Reform Law was extended
to the Wadi, a popular uprising of the tenants against the landowners is said
to have taken place, which resulted in the departure of almost all of the
former landowners. Consequently, all land of those owning less than 8 ha
was also taken over by the State. The present situation is that virtually
all land in the project area is said to belong to the State, and has been
organized into five production cooperatives. Former sharecroppers, who are
now members of these cooperatives, have been given the right to use this land
and to benefit from it.
Cooperatives
4.        The cooperatives in PDRY are an integral part of the agrarian re-
forms. Their establishment and organization are governed under the Coopera-
tive Law of 1972, and the Agrarian Reforms Department of MAAR is charged with



ANNEX 4
Page 2
its implementation. The Law defines three different models of production
cooperatives: one allowing individual holdings, the second in which indivi-
dual holdings are transformed into shares, and the third in which all pro-
duction factors are collectively owned. In the project area, five production
cooperatives, said to be of the second type, exist and cover about 95% of the
cultivated land. Since members of these cooperatives are not landowners,
shares are not involved and the cooperatives seem to be of the third type
rather than the second.
5.        A production cooperative (see Chart 9859) is managed by an adminis-
trative council consisting of about 10 members, who elect a chairman and a
secretary, the former function being essentially of a political nature. Each
council member simultaneously heads a sub-committee, of which there are a
number, with responsibility in such fields as agricultural production, market-
ing, social welfare, information, etc. The administrative staff of the coope-
rative includes an accountant and several clerks, who are appointed and,
during the first two years, paid by MAAR's Agrarian Reforms Department. The
production cooperative is subdivided into a number of collective units; each
unit is headed by a member of the administrative council. Depending on its
size, a collective unit may be divided into a small number of production units,
which is managed by a committee elected from its members. A collective unit
(or production unit) consists of several working groups, or firqas, each of
which may include 5 to 20 members. Each working group, which is the smallest
unit in the cooperative organization, is centered around a well.
6.        The existing wells and pumpsets and all agricultural equipment which
belonged to the previous owners were also expropriated. The wells and pump-
sets now belong to the cooperatives and the agricultural equipment to the
Machinery Renting Station (MRS). The pumpsets are operated by the working
groups but are maintained by MRS. For this service, the working groups pay
an annual fee to MRS, which is insufficient to meet its actual costs. The
working groups also rent agricultural equipment from MRS, whenever needed, at
fixed hourly rates, which are also insufficient to cover the actual mainten-
ance and operating costs of MRS and do not include any element for recovering
the equipment's capital cost. MRS is making up these losses from its profits
on its other activities. Fertilizer, whenever it is supplied by Government
to the cooperatives, is distributed in accordance with approved policies.
After recovering government tax and the cooperative fee, production which is
surplus to the needs of the working group is taken over by NCHFT or HCU for
marketing.
7.        The primary source of income of the production cooperative is the
cooperative fee, which all working groups belonging to the cooperative are
obliged to pay. This fee corresponds to 5% of the gross value of cereal and
vegetable production. Administrative expenses of the cooperative, other than
those financed by MAAR, are met from this fee and the net surplus is allocated
to legal reserve (25%), development of means of production (20%), bonus to
active workers (20%), education and training (15%), social welfare (10%) and
cooperative movement (10%).



ANNE) 4
Page 3
8.        The management and the accounts of the cooperatives are not satis-
factory as they are handled by staff whose education is hardly above the
elementary level. An institute for the-training of managerial and accounts
staff of cooperatives exists, but none of the staff belonging to the five
cooperatives in the project area has yet received training at this institute.
Accounts are audited by the Ministry's staff.
9.        The net income of the working group is distributed among its mem-
bers equally, although it should be shared on the basis of the volume of
work put in by the members. At present, however, there is no system of
recording labor inputs. Since formation of cooperatives in the area is still
in its early stages and their management is yet to be trained, it is expected
that necessary improvements would evolve in time.
State Farms
10.       A part of the expropriated land and land newly developed is organ-
ized into state farms. Four farms, Redud, Balal, 15 July and Juaymah, have
been established; another two (Bahran and Bor) are in process and a few more
are planned for the next two years. Data on these farms are given below:
Area (ha)            Number of Tubewells
Under
Cultivated                Construction
State Farm                      Total       1974-75     Existing    or Planned
Redud                            140         100            8            4
Balal                            18(          80            5
15 July                          180         100            6
Juaymah                          400                                     10/1
Bahran                           160          20            2             8
Bor                              180                                      5
Under Planning                   260                                     16
Total                1,500         300          21            43
/1   All of the 10 wells installed and awaiting pumping units, which are
being procured.
Area cultivated during 1974-75 amounted to about 300 ha and it is expected
that by the time the proposed project is implemented, the area under cultiva-
tion on the state farms would increase to 1,500 ha. Most of the tubewells
on the state farms have been installed under USSR bilateral assistance. Addi-
tional tubewells are being installed under a similar arrangement.
11.       The state farms own agricultural equipment, but occasionally rent
supplementary equipment from MRS. Management staff is provided by MAAR and
all state farms in the project area are being supervised by a Director who



ANNEX 4
Page 4
is stationed at Seyun. The state farms prepare their own budgets and receive
necessary financial assistance either from the government budget or from
credit sources like NBY or ADF from whom they borrow money on interest. The
accounts of the state farms also are not kept in a satisfactory manner and
are probably supervised by untrained accountants.
12.       The state farms are functioning as seed multiplication farms, and
also as demonstration farms for the project area farmers,- They are receiving
substantial technical assistance from the experts that are available in PDRY
under the UNDP/FAO Research and Training project. These experts regularly
visit the state farms and offer technical guidance to their staffs.
June 20, 1975



ANNEX 5
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Description of Project Works
General
1.        Civil works included in the project are:  (a) feeder roads, (b)
works for sand dune fixation, and (c) rural water supply schemes. All other
project elements either involve procurement of equipment, supplies and mate-
rials or consist of technical and managerial services, and hence are not
described in this Annex.
Feeder Roads
2.        The feeder roads proposed to be included in the project would con-
nect the outlying villages of agricultural importance in the project area
with the main west-east road that traverses the Wadi from Qatn to Tarim.
Because of the Wadi width, most of these roads would be short in length.
Nineteen roads, varying in length from 2 km to 18 km, would be constructed
which would link over 25 villages and hamlets with the main road. The main
village and the population to be served by each road and its length are given
in Table 1. The collective length of the roads would amount to 120 km, and
these would benefit about 40,000 persons.
3.        The roads would be 4.5 m wide and would have a cobbled surface simi-
lar to that of the existing main road. This surfacing has been chosen by the
Public Works Department (PWD) to be the standard type in this region because
of its low cost and being labor intensive. Also it can best withstand sporadic
floods caused by short intensive rainfalls. For this type of construction,
earthwork is carried out by equipment and stones are dressed and placed by
hand. Interstices are then filled with clay and sand. For the roads to be
constructed under the project, some equipment (Annex 8, Table 3) would be
furnished to supplement the existing machinery available from PWD.
4.        Two construction teams of 30 workers each, working 25 days per month,
would complete one km of road. Thus the projected feeder roads would be com-
pleted in about 34 months by seven construction teams. The number of teams
could be increased during the winter months, when there are better working con-
ditions, and correspondingly reduced in the summer. Construction of the roads
would be undertaken by PWD either on force account basis or on contract basis.
Maintenance of the completed roads would be carried out by the PWD.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Works for Sand Dune Fixation
5.        The experimental program for sand dune fixation would consist of
installation of two tubewells in the affected area and carrying out planned
plantation. The wells would be about 100 m deep and about 20 cm in diameter.
These would be drilled by the rigs already available in MAAR. Casing pipe,
screen and pumpsets (Annex 8, Table 3) would be provided under the project.
In addition, one water tanker would be provided to transport water over short
distances for irrigating the plantation.
6.        The plantation would be in the form of two shelter belts suitably
located with reference to sand movement. Each belt would consist of three
rows of plantation. The length of each belt would be about 5 km and its
width about 10 m. The required area would be levelled by a bulldozer and
three irrigation ditches would be dug by a tractor. Seedlings of suitable
varieties of quick growing plants, which would be raised on the nearby 15 July
state farm, would be planted in the three rows. This plantation would be
protected by a double row of reed-fencing. The seedlings would be looked
after properly and any casualities would be promptly replaced. Irrigation of
the plantation would be carried out at suitable intervals. This program would
be carried out on force account.
Rural Watei Supply Schemes
7.        General.  Two water supply schemes are included in the project -
one to be located near Shibam (Map 11614) and the other near Qatn. The list
of villages to be served by each scheme and other details are given in Table
2. The schemes will be designed by the National Water Corporation (NWC) at
a water use of 10 gallons per capita per day including supplies to livestock.
The water mains would be of asbestos cement pipes, which would be buried in
the ground. The pipelines would be laid mostly alongside the main road.
8.        Shibam Scheme.  This scheme would serve a population of about
30,000 in 8 villages and the town of Shibam. Total system demand would
amount to 0.3 million gpd, of which 0.11 million gpd would flow westward from
the tubewells near Shibam and 0.19 million gpd eastward. Two 15 to 20 cm
diameter tubewells, about 150 m deep, would be drilled near Shibam.  A low
level main reservoir would be constructed close to the wells and a booster
pump would lift the supply to the existing high level reservoir at Shibam.
The existing high level reservoir at Hauta would also be used. Both the
western mains (14,000 ft) and the eastern mains (40,500 ft) would be served
by these two high level reservoirs. Size of the mains would vary from 6 to
10 cm.
9.        Qatn Scheme.  This scheme would serve a population of about 10,000
in 14 villages and Qatn town. Total system demand would amount to 102,000
gpd, of which 58,000 gpd would flow eastward from the tubewells near Qatn and
gpd 44,000 would flow westward. Two 15 to 20 cm diameter tubewells about 150 m
deep would be drilled near Qatn. A 80,000 gallon high level reservoir would



ANNEX 5
Page 3
be constructed on the cliff, close to the tubevells, and water would be pumped
directly into this reservoir. Both the eastern mains (23,000 ft) and the
western mains (14,500 ft) would be fed directly from the high level reservoir.
Size of the mains would be 6 cm or less.
10.       Construction. NWC would prepare detailed designs of the two schemes
and would also construct them, either on force account or on a contract basis.
Operation and maintenance of these schemes would be with NWC. Pipe for tube-
-wells, pumpsets, and pipe and fittings tfor the main pipelines would be fur-
nished under the project. Some tools, one truck and one pickup vehicle would
also be furnished. Construction would be supervised by the Hadramawt Project
Organization. All villages and towns would be served at several suitable
points by community taps.
11.       Operation and maintenance.  The contribution of voluntary labor to
construction costs will be over 10% of the latter and hence users will be
charged only for operation and maintenance. The rural water supply schemes
would be operated and maintained by NWC with the assistance of some equipment
provided under the project.
June 20, 1975



ANNEX 5
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMCRATIC REPUBLIC OF IEMEN
Feeder Roads
Village to
be connected                  Population                  Length of
with Main Road                  Served                    Feeder Road
(kmn)
Al-Karieh                       1,500                          3
Koda Moshta                     2,000                         11
Thibi                           2,500                          2
Suvayri                         4,5oo                          3
Taribah                         5,500                         10
Boor                            2,800                          3
Madudah                         3,000                          5
Shahuh                            900                          6
Juaymah                         2,000                          8
Jifl                            1,500                          3
Mosheb                          2,000                          6
Algarrah                        1,000                          5
Ghuseis                         1,500                          8
Haynan                          1,200                          8
Hedieb                            700                          2
Al-Aneen                        3,000                          5
Khasha 'a                       1,800                         18
Al-Jawada                       1,000                         11
EL-Sugair                         600                          3
39,000                       120



ANNBX 5
Tabli 2
APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRANAWT AaRICULTURAL PROJYLT
PEOPLE'S MEIDCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YDNEN
Detaila of Rural Water Supply Schasea
Village or Town                            Peak Water Dtmnd            Length
to be Served        Population        By Rea¢b        ouf latis of Roacb
- --------(1000 gpd)     -      (1000 t)
Shibam Scheme
Western Mains
Shibam                8,000             80              110
Rbumair                 800              8               30            6.o
Khashaier             1,100             11               22            6.o
Aqqad                 1,000             11               11            2.0
Subtotal           11,000            ES                             14.0
Eastern Mains
Saheel                2,000              20             190            1.7
Hazm                  1,000              10             170            6.o
Hauta and others    10,000             100              160           11.2
Carey                 1,000             10               60            9.0
Ghurfah               5,000             50              50           12.6
Subtotal           19,000                                          1T0.5
Total              30,000            300                            54.5
Qatn Scheme
Eastern Mains
Zaw                     900               9              58            1.5
Alialltag               500               5              49            2.5
Gahuara                 400               4              44            2.0
Madothila               200               2              40            2.0
Anin                  1,300              13              38            3.5
Bir Nassir              400               4              25            1.5
Billaleh                300               3              21            2.0
Kharaba                 800               8              18            3.0
Al Habn                 100               1              10            3.0
Hadieh                  900               9               9            2.0
Subtotal            5,800              58                           23.0
Western Mains
Qatn                  2,500              25              44            7.3
Khabba                  400               4              19            1.0
Babakr                  400               4              15            1.2
Fo1t                    700               7              11            3.8
Dabaan                  400              4                4           1.2
Subtotal            L,400             4445
Iotal              10,200             102                          37.5
Both Schemes         40,200             402                           92.0



ANNEX 6
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Date Production and Packing Plant
Date Production
1.        Production in Project Area.  Date palms are spread throughout the
project area and can be classified into three groups by their source of
irrigation. Perennially irrigated groves covering about 1,000 ha and number-
ing about 80,000 palms, are found in the upper reaches of Wadi Idm near Sah.
In Wadi Hadramawt bed, scattered plantations constitute the spate-irrigated
group, which perhaps covers a total area of over 2,000 ha and contains over
120,000 palms. The area within the Wadi irrigated by wells is estimated to
contain about 200,000 palms, which are scattered over about 4,000 ha. Most
of this area is intercropped with cereals and vegetables. Date production in
the project area by above mentioned groups is summarized below:
Estimated
Number of    Estimated
Palms        Yield       Production
(kg/palm)      (ton)
Perennially Irrigated                      80,000           30           2,400
Spate-Irrigated                           120,000           10           1,200
Well-Irrigated                            200,000           30           6,000
Total                                400,000                       9,600
2.        Present Cultural Practices.  Most date palms occur as groups of up
to 8 or 10 palms, which probably originate from a single plant. Trees of all
ages bear too many offshoots, which depress growth and yield of the parent palm.
No fertilizer is used except for the manure that is applied to the inter-
cropped fields, which indirectly benefits some of the date palms. Also, no
pesticides or insecticides are being used, but palms are remarkably free of
diseases. Other practices concerning leaf removal, dethorning and pollination
are good and well proven. Yields are low and can be attributed to no ferti-
lization and inadequate irrigation. About 15 to 20 varieties are grown in the
project area, but about 70% of the production is estimated to be of "Hamrah"
variety, about 15% of the choicest "Madini", "Jizaz" and "Migraf" varieties,
and the balance of other varieties.
3.        Possible Improvements.  It is possible to improve the yields of
those date palms which receive satisfactory irrigation either from perennial
surface flow or from wells. Substantial yield improvements can be realized



ANNEX 6
Page 2
if adequate amounts of fertilizer and crop protection measures are applied.
No research has been carried out in PDRY on these aspects but proven results
from other countries can be tried. Consequently, an experimental program is
proposed under the project.
4.        Recommended Program.  Experiments would be initiated on a selected
area of about 100 ha with the object of defining the inputs which must be
applied to optimize the yield from the existing typical varieties. Small
amounts of urea and superphosphate have been included in the total quantities
required for the pro3jct (Annex 2, Table 2). The experimental program would
be carried out by the staff of Seyun research substation under the guidance
of the Project Director of HPO. Provision has also been made to furnish the
services of a short-term consultant for advice, if required. It is estimated
that as a result of this program, date yields would increase from 30 kg per
tree to about 50 kg per tree in the experimental area.
The Date Packing Plant
Background
5.        Dates are an important food in PDRY as they contribute approximately
15% to total calorie intake. Domestic date production is currently about
40,000 tons per year, one-quarter of which is produced in the project area.
Domestic supplies fall short of demand and are supplemented by imports from
Iraq of about 3,000 tons per year. Imported dates are generally superior
to the marketed local product which is insect infected and contains a high
proportion of impurities. The CIF value of imports (YD100-120/ton) is ap-
proximately equal to the retail price of the local product. The present
wholesale price of the local product in urban centers is about YD60/ton, hence
marketing margins account for nearly 50% of the consumer price, reflecting much
waste on account of poor quality.
6.        Description.  The proposed date packing plant would be the first of
its kind in PDRY and would have a capacity of 700 tons per year, which could
be expandet to 1,000 tons at small additional cost. Its objectives include
supplying the urban consumer with a quality product at modest additional cost
and reducing spoilage in the marketing chain. The plant would consist of
facilities for fumigation, grading, washing and packing the dates and would
produce three types of packs: (a) a bulk pack basket, lined with polythene,
containing 25 kg; (b) a carton, lined with polythene, containing 2 kg; and
(c) a polythene bag containing 500 grams. The most suitable location for the
plant would be at Seyun, where adequate power and water are available.
7.        Cost Estimate.  The total cost of the plant, excluding 20% physical
contingencies, is estimated at YD 100,000 (US$290,000), of which about 80%
would be in foreign exchange. Details are given below:



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Estimated Cost
(YD)            (US$)
Building and facilities                    40,000          116,000
Processing equipment                       40,000          116,000
Packing tables and equipment               10,000           29,000
Internal transport equipment                3,000            9,000
Packing materials                           5,000           14,000
Office furniture and equipment              2,000            6,000
Total                          100,000          290,000
Twenty percent of the cost of the plant would be put up by either the Govern-
ment or the Horticulture Co-operative Union which has been nominated by Govern-
ment to be responsible for the plant. The remaining 80%, to be financed out
of the proceeds of the proposed IDA credit would be a long-term loan to this
agency. This loan would be made for 10 years, with 2 years grace, at 5% inte-
rest under an agreement between NBY and the HCU.
8.        Operating Costs.  The operating cost calculations include the fol-
lowing considerations. In order to encourage date growers to bring a reason-
able product to the plant rather than consuming it, Government will have to
allow the plant to introduce a 30% price differential for quality dates. The
purchase price of dates in the cost calculation, therefore, is YD 60/ton, in-
stead of the present uniform price of YD 45/ton. Total operating costs are
estimated to be YD 109/ton, of which YD 49/ton represents the actual cost of
processing. Because of more expensive packaging, family packs are more costly
to produce than the standard bulk pack, as reflected in a sales price differ-
ential of 15%. Cost price calculations include a 10% contingency element,
which also accounts for 5% rejects in purchased raw material.
9.        Management and Staffing.  The plant will be managed by the HCU, an
autonomous agency nominated by Government. The agency will be headed by a full
time General Manager, assisted by one assistant mechanic, and two production
supervisors employed for six months in a year. In addition, the plant will
employ a bookkeeper/typist, a driver and watchmen. All staff salaries will be
paid out of sales revenues, with the exception of the first year when Govern-
ment will have to assume responsibility for such payments. The agency will
be assisted in the preparation of detailed specifications for equipment and
civil works by a consultant financed under the project. The consultant may
also be made available for the plant's initial trial period.
10.       Justification.  It is estimated that the average ex-plant price of
packed dates will have to be around YD 140/ton, if the plant is to make a
reasonable return to investment (Tables 1 and 2). Such a price would be about
20% above the landed price of imported dates, which are of lesser quality than
the proposed plant's output. The speed with which imported dates are cleared
from the market reflects a substantial unsatisfied demand for a quality grade
product. It is expected, therefore, that the plant's entire output will be



ANNEX 6
Page 4
absorbed domestically. The plant is estimated to yield an economic rate of
return to investment of 11%, with labor costed at the going wage rate (Annex
12). The cash-flow projection of the date plant indicates that the enter-
prise can be expected to meet fully its debt service obligations. The inter-
nal financial rate of return to investment has been estimated to be 11%
(Table 2).
June 20, 1975



ANNEX 6
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YENEN
Date Packing Plant
Projected Income and Expenditure Statements
Unit.   Year 1-2      Year 3       Year 4-25
Sales
Bulk Pack                     ton       --            175            350
Price                      YD/ton       --            130 Li         130
Family Pack                   ton        --           175            350
Price                      YD/ton        --           150 /1         150
Net Sales Proceeds              YD                   49,000         98.000
Operating Costs                 YD
Purchase dates                           __        21,000         42,000
Fumigation                               --           230            455
Handling, Washing, Grading               --         1,225          2,450
Bulk packs                               --         1,925          3,850
Family packs                             --         5,865         11,725
Administration                           --         3,000          3,000
Water, power                             --         1,000          1,290
Maintenance                              --         3,285          4,500
Subtotal                             --         37,530         69,270
Contingencies 10%                     --3755                    6930
Total Operating Costs,
excluding depreciation       YD           _41285                  76-200
Income before depreciation    YD                      7
and loan interest                                    _2
/1  Average ex-factory price equals YD 140 per ton.
Source: Mission estimates
April 1975



APPIAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Date Packing Plant
Proiected Sources and Application of Fimds
(YD'OOO)
Years    1      2      3      4     5      6      7     8      9      10     11      12      13      14     15      16      17      18      19      o      21      22      23      24      25
Sources of Funds
Fund  generated            --    -       7.7  21.8  21.8  21.8  21.8  21.8  21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8
Equity                            24.0                     ----  --  --  --   ..   --  --  --  --   -- _-                                                                            --   --   -- __
LeOn Proceeds              --    96.0 -                                  - --  --   -- _       --                      --     --      -       --      -- _  _                --      --              --      -
Total Sourcee of Funds   --   120.0  7.7  21.8  21.8  21.8  21,8  21.8  21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8
Application of Funds
Plant Invetmnt              --   120.0 --                  -       -     --        -    -      --      --      --      --         --      --      --      --      --     --      -- -_        -      --      --
Replacements                                             --      -- --   --    --    --    17.3  --    --  --  __                                                                    67.3    --      __      __
Debt Service                                  16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0   16.0   16.0   --            --     --      --      --       _      --       _     --      --      --      --      --      --
Total Application of       --   120.0  __   16.0  16.0  16.0  33.3  16.0  16.0   16.0   16.0   67.3    -                      --             17.3      _     __                      67.3    -       _
Net Inflow (Outflow)
Annual                            --    7.7   5.8   5.8   5.8 (11.5)  5.8   5.8    5.8    5.8  (45.5)  21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8    4.5   21.8   21.8   21.8   21.8  (45.5)  21.8   21.8   21.8
CumulatiEve                --    --    7.7  13.5  19.3  25.1  13.6  19.4  25.2   31.0   36.8   (8.7)  13.1   34.9   56.7   78.5   83.0  104.8  126.6  148.4  170.2  124.7  146.5  168.3  190.1
Internal Financial Return to  Investment: 11%.
Source: Mission estimates.
April 1975



ANNEX 7
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Consultants' Terms of Reference
Background
1.        The Fisheries Project (Credit 370-YDR) includes a provision of
US$300,000 for the preparation of a feasibility study in the Wadi Hadramawt
area. Such a study was to explore the aquifers of the Wadi, assess the addi-
tional groundwater potential, and prepare an irrigation development scheme.
The consultant for this study has not yet been appointed. Since the financial
provision under the Fisheries Project would not be enough to carry out a com-
prehensive study of the area, additional financing under the proposed agri-
cultural project is being included.  It is the intention that the proposed
feasibility study of Wadi Hadramawt area be started under the Fisheries Proj-
ect by the employment of a consulting firm and be continued under the proposed
agricultural project when the available financing under the Fisheries Project
has been exhausted.
Selection of Consulting Firm
2.        A consulting firm experienced in the fields of groundwater explora-
tion and development and irrigation would be employed, in consultation with
IDA, to carry out the proposed study. Terms of reference for the consulting
firm are given below.
Terms of Reference
3.        Objectives.  The consulting firm is to prepare a feasibility study
in the Wadi Hadramawt area, located in the Fifth Governorate of PDRY, in
accordance with the following broad objectives:
(a) to explore the aquifers of the Wadi and to determine the
additional groundwater potential that can be safely developed
for irrigation;
(b) to rehabilitate those diversion weirs which are either useful
for diverting flood flows for spate irrigation or for in-
creasing groundwater recharge;
(c) to prepare an irrigation development scheme, based on ground-
water potential identified under (a); and



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(d) to make proposals for efficient management of the ground-
water resources.
4.        The Study Area.  The studv area is located within the high banks of
the Wadi and consists of about 120,000 ha, of which only about 50,000 ha
is fully or partially suitable for irrigation. The remainder either consists
of saline soils or solonchaks (18,000 ha), or of unsuitable soils (52,000 ha).
The area receives very low and erratic rainfall (60 mm to 100 mm per year) in
a few storms durinR June, July and August. The mean temperatures vary from
29°C to 43°C. About 2,200 open wells and about 100 tubewells provide water
for the presently annually cultivated area of about 8,000 ha. A groundwater
reservoir with varying water quality, mainlv receiving recharge from the
sporadic floods, exists under the Wadi bed.
5.        The Study.  The studv would be carried out in two parts.  Part A
would deal with the assessment of groundwater potential and Part B would
consist of the irrigation study, which would also include the rehabilitation
of existing diversion weirs and existing agriculture. Both parts would be
completed in about 36 months. Part B would be taken up only after there were
positive indications of additional groundwater availability. The consulting
firm shall submit the following set of reports. in English, to Government for
both Parts A and B of the Study:
(a) an inception report (10 copies), within three months of appoint-
ment, summarizing initial findings after review of existing
data and describing the proposed program of data collection,
field work and explorations;
(b) brief progress reports (20 copies), at quarterly intervals,
describing all work performed during the quarter and a sum-
mary of findings, and the work proposed to be done during
the next quarter;
(c) an interim report for Part A (30 copies), after completion of
the field work and first set of precasting runs of groundwater
model studies (estimated to be within 18 months of appointment)
summarizing all work performed and preliminary conclusions about
availability of additional groundwater: and
(d) a final report (50 copies), at the conclusion of both Parts A
and B (estimated to be within 36 months of appointment or about
18 months after the start of Part B), summarizing all work done,
conclusions regarding availability of additional groundwater,
any irrigation development proposed and recommendations for the
rehabilitation of existing agriculture.
6.        Part A - Groundwater Potential.  The work to be carried out by the
consulting firm under Part A will include:



ANNEX 7
Page 3
(a) preparation of topographic map (1:10,000 in scale), with 1 meter
contours, from available air photos and other available maps,
and a land use map distinguishing flood and well-irrigated
areas and areas that are uncultivated but suitable for irri-
gation-
(b) collection of existing meteorological and hydrological data,
its analysis and reinterpretation;
(c) collection of additional hydrological data by installing
gauges in the tributary wadis and at suitable points on Wadi
Hadramawt and determination of flood runoff and incidence,
rate of infiltration, and estimation of groundwater recharge
and influence of diversion weirs on recharge;
(d) establishment of a groundwater monitoring network from exist-
ing open wells (piercing upper aquifer) and existing tubewells
(piercing deeper aquifer) and collection of important data at
necessary intervals for determining the present groundwater
behavior, its quality and annual extractions;
(e) a geophysical survey of the Wadi with about 50 deep electrical
probes located at suitable points within the Wadi with a view
to exploring the deeper aquifer;
(f) drilling of five reconnaissance boreholes (depth about 200 m
each) with government-owned rigs, with sampling of drillings and
geophysical logging to assist in the final interpretation of the
geophysical survey carried out under (e). Successful boreholes
will be converted into production wells;
(g) about 30 pumping tests on selected existing wells and new bore-
holes to provide data on transmissivity, storage coefficient and
future well design;
(h) construction of a mathematical model to simulate estimated values
of various parameters and to predict future aquifer behavior;
and
(i) based on all field work and studies, an assessment of the ground-
water potential available for development.
7.        Part B - Irrigation Study.  The work to be carried out under this
part will include:
(a) a semi-detailed soil survey, according to USBR standards, for the
area to be considered for groundwater development as a result of
the study under Part A. A preliminary survey covering 120,000 ha
was carried out by a Russian mission and will be available. Results



ANNEX 7
Page 4
of the survey will be described in the final report (para 5 (d))
which should include soil analysis results, recommendations for
leaching of saline soils, irrigation practices on slightly saline
soils and abandonment of land too saline or land irrigated with
too saline waters;
(b) a survey of the existing diversion weirs with areas commanded by
each weir and recommendations regarding their usefulness either
for spate irrigation or increasing groundwater recharge and a
program for their rehabilitation with cost estimates;
(c) a study of optimum use of surface waters either for spate irriga-
tion or groundwater recharge or leaching. This will include con-
struction of additional weirs and other works and cost of such
works;
(d) based on the results of Part A of the Study, a scheme for the
development of additional groundwater along with its preliminary
designs, layout and cost estimates;
(e) a study of the economics of replacing four or five existing open
wells with a suitably located tubewell with a lined water dis-
tribution system. A few typical units would be surveyed to demon-
strate the efficacy of the recommendations made, as well as the
difficulties;
(f) a study of irrigation practices including sprinkler irrigation,
furrow irrigation or gated pipe system along with the cost and
benefits of each system;
(g) a study of consumptive use of water for various crops, including
water applications with a view to optimizing available water; and
(h) a study of production costs, yields, gross and net income and
economic analysis of the proposed development scheme and rehabil-
itation works.
8.        Facilities to be Provided by Government. All relevant data, reports,
maps, air photos and other information available on topography, meteorology,
hydrology, geology, land use, etc. would be supplied to the consulting firm,
which is not entitled to publish or disclose any of the information so ob-
tained without the written consent of the Government. The result of experi-
ments carried out by the Research Station at El-Kod and the substation at
Seyun that are considered relevant would be available to the firm on request.
The firm would be given privileges to import and subsequently to export, free
of duties and taxes, any equipment or vehicles required in connection with
the Study. Suitable drilling rigs would be made available to the consulting
firm along with drilling crews. Government would also second suitable tech-
nicians to the consulting firm, which would provide these technicians inservice
training in various disciplines.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
9.        The consulting firm would recommend to Government a list of suitable
equipment and materials, with estimated cost, to carry out the studies men-
tioned under Parts A and B (paras 6 and 7 above). The equipment and materials
would be procured by the consulting firm, following guidelines of the Asso-
ciation, and the consulting firm would finance the cost of these items on a
re-imbursable basis. The equipment would be retained by Government following
completion of the study.
10.       Facilities to be Provided b_  tbe Firm.  The consulting firm would
provide its own transport vehicles and all specialized equipment required,
e.g. survey equipment, drafting equipment, calculators and the like. The
firm would be reimbursed for the cost of such services on a per month basis.
11.       Manpower Requirement.  The total manpower requirement of the consult-
ing firm is estimated at 120 man months, of which 60 man months each will be
for Parts A and B. Details are in the attached table.
June 23, 1975



ANNEX 7
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMDCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Estimated Manpower Requirement of Consulting Firm
Part A - Groundwater Potential                                 Estimated
Manpower
Requirement
(Manmonths)
Topographical Maps                                              6
Data Collection and Interpretation                              6
Groundwater Investigations                                     20
Model Study                                                    10
Geophysical Survey                                              8
Other Studies and Reporting                                    10
Subtotal                                                     60
Part B - Irrigation Study
Soil Survey                                                     6
Surface Water Study                                             6
Irrigation Practices and Rehabilitation
of Wells                                                     10
Development Scheme                                             12
Economic Study                                                 10
Agricultural Studies                                           10
Reporting                                                       6
Subtotal                                                     60
Total                                                       120



ANNEX 8
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI H4DRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE 'S DENOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Cost Estimates
Item                                          YD'OOO                               US000                     Foreign
Local    Foreign    Total-           Local    Foreign    Total           Exchange
Agricultural Development
Supplies, Equipment and Works           394        816      1.210          1,143      2,366      3.509            67
Fertilizer                             55        310        365            160        899      1,059            85
Insecticide                             5         30         35             14         87        101            85
Agricultural Equipment                 43        247        290            125        716        841            85
Irrigation Equipment                   23        127        150             67        368        435            85
Feeder Roads - Equipment               18        102        120             52        296        348            85
- Construction         250         --        250             725         --        725            --
Contingencies
Physical                               40         81        121            116        235        351            67
Price                                 103         81        18-            299        235        534            44
Management                              120        180        300            348        522        870             60
Experts and Training                   46        154        200            133        447        580             77
Project Organization                   70         --         70            203         --        203             --
Vehicles and Office Equipment           4         26         30             12         75         87             87
Contingencies
Physical                               12         18         30             35         52         87            60
Price                                  26         37         63             75        107        182            59
Research                                 14         21         35             41         61        102             60
Substation Equipment                    1          7          8              3         20         23            87
Sand Dune Fixation - Equipment          3         14         17              9         41         50            82
-Other Costs    10           --         10             29         --         29             --
Contingencies
Physical                                1          2          3              3          6          9            67
Price                                   3          2          5              9          6         15            40
Date Packing Plant                             20        80         100             58        232        290            80
Contingenxcies
Physical                                4         16         20             12         46         58            79
Price                                   5         20         25             15         58         73            79
Rural Water Supply                            102        118       220             296        342        638            54
Equipment and Materials                22        118        140             64        342        406            84
Construiction                          80         --         80            232         --        232            --
Contingenicies
Physical                               12         13         24             34         38         72            54
Price                                  35         22         57            101         64        165            39
Feasibility Study                             50        150        200             145       435        580             75
Contingencies
Physical                                6         15         21             17         44         61            72
Price                                  13         38         51             38        110        148            74
Total Base Cost                     700     1,365      2,065           2,031     3,958      5,989             66
Total Physical Contingencies         75        145        220            217        421        638            67
Total Price Contingencies           185        200        385            537        580     1,117             55
Total Project Cost                  960     1,710      2,670           2,785     4,959      7,744             64
/1 Discrepancies due to -ounding.
April 1975



ANNEX 8
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Schedule of Expenditures
item                                            Estimated Total Cost                    Year 1                           Year 2                           Year 3
Local   Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total          Local   Foreign   Total          LOCal   Foreign       Total
(-          - --------------------------------      ----- YDTOQ   --------------------------------------- - - -   ----        )
Agricultural Development
Supplies, Equipment and Works                 394        816   1210           96        349       445         177        405       582         121         62         183
Fertilizer                                  55        310        365         22        124       146          22        124       146         11         62           73
Insecticide                                  5          30        35          2         15        17           3         15        18         --         --           --
Agricultural Equipment                      43        247        290         15        100       115          28        147       175         --          --          --
Irrigation Equipment                        23        127        150          9         60        69          14         67        81         --         --           --
Feeder Roads - Equipment                    18         102       120          8         50        58          10         52        62         --          --          --
- Construction               250         --       250         40          --        40        100         --       100         110         --         110
Contingencies
Physical                                    40          81       121         --         --        --          20         40        60         20          41          61
Price                                      103          81       184          8         20        28         43          52        95         52           9          61
Management                                    120        180       300         31          66        97         44         57       101          45         57         102
Etperts and Training                        46        154       200          12         40        52          17         57        74         17         57           74
Project Organization                        70          --        70         15         --        15          27         --        27         28          --          28
Vehicles and Office Equipment                4          26        30          4         26        30          --         --        --         --          --          --
Contingenc ies
Physical                                    12          18        30         --         --        --           6          9        15          6           9          15
Price                                       26          37        63          3          6         9           9         12        21         14          19          33
Research                                       14         21        35          6         21         27          5         --         5          3          --           3
Substation Equipment                          1          7         8          1          7         8          --         --        --         --          --          --
Sand Dune Fixation - Equipment               3          14        17          3         14        17          --         --        --         --          --          --
Other Costs         10         --        10           2         --         2          5         --          5          3         --            3
Contingencies
Physical                                     1           2         3         --         --        --           1          2         3         --         --           --
Price                                        3           2         5          1          2         3           1         --         1          1         --
Date Packing Plant                               20         80       100         --          --        --         20         80       10a          --
Contingencies
Physical                                     4          16        20         --         --        --          4          16        20         --          --          --
Price                                        5          20        25         --         --        --           5         20        25         --
Rural Water Supply                              102        118       220          10         50        60         52         68       120          40         --          40
EquipLent and Materials                     22        118        140         10         50        60          12         68        80         --         ---
Construction                                80          --        80         --         --        --         40          --        40         40         --           40
Contingencies
Physical                                    12          13        24         -_         --        --           6          7        13          6          6           12
Price                                       35         22        57           1          5         6          15         14        29         19           3          22
Feasibility Study                                50        150       200                     --        --         25         75       100          25         75         100
Contingencies
Physical                                     6          15        21         --         --        --           3          7        10          3           8          11
Price                                       13          38        51         --         --         --          5         15        20          8          23          31
Total Base Cost                          700      1,365    2,065          143        486       629        323        685      1,008        234        194          428
Total Physical COntingencies              75        145       220          --         --        --         40          81       121         35         64           99
Total Price ContingenCies                185        200       385          13         33        46         78         113       191         94         54          148
Total Project Cost (YD'ooo)              960      1,710    2,670          156        519       675        441        879    1,320          363        312          675
(U:;S'OOO)       2,785      4,959    7,744          453      1,505    1,958        1,279      2,549    3,828       1,053         905       1,958
April 1975



ANNEX 8
Table 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DE24OCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
List of Equipment
Item                                                           Unit           Total
Number          Cost           Cost
(----YD---------)
&quipment for Agricultural Development
Machinery Renting Station
Wheel tractor, 35 hp                         5            3,200         16,000
Wheel tractor, 60-70 hp                     28            4,800        134,400
Wheel tractor, 85-90 hn                      2            6,300         12,600
Disc plough, 2 discs                        10              700          7,000
Disc plough, reversible 3-h discs           10           1,000          10,000
Chisel plough, 5 tyne                       10              500          5,000
Offset disc harrow                          20              600         12,000
Spring tyne cultivator                      20              500         10,000
Sprayers                                    50              200         10,000
Spare parts for tractors (20%)              --              --          33,000
Subtotal                                                             250,000
State Farms
Seed drill                                   5              700           3,500
Ridger                                       5              300          1,500
Ditcher                                      5            - 200          1,000
Fburower                                     5              300          1,500
Farm blade                                   5              400           2,000
Tipping trailer, 3 ton                       5            1,000          5,000
Threshing machine                            5            2,000         10,000
Chaff cutter                                10              200          2,000
Reaper-binder                                5              800          4,000
Mower                                        5              500           2,500
Miscellaneous small equipment               --              --           5,000
Sprayers                                    10              200           2,000
Subtotal                                                              40,000
Irrigation
Centrifugal pumps                          100              450         45,000
Diesel engines                             150              700        105,000
Subtotal                                                             150,000



ANNEX 8
Table 3
Page 2
Item                                                          Unit          Total
Number          Cost           Cost
(-        YD---------)
Feeder Roads
Tipper truck, 10-ton                       10            8,000         80,000
Water tanker, 2,000 gallons                 2            7,000         14,000
Motor grader, 120 hp                        1           14,000         14,000
Loader                                      1           12,000         12,000
Subtotal                                                            120,000
Management
Land rover, 4-wheel drive                   5            3,000         15,000
Motorcycle                                 12              250          3,000
Office equipment                           --              --          12,000
Subtotal                                                             30,000
Research
Substation
Xbuipment                                __              __           4,oo0
Implements                               __              __           4,000
Sand Dune Fixation
Casing pipe for wells                                    --           5,000
Pumpsets                                  2           2,500           5,000
Water tanker                              1            7,000          7,000
Subtotal                                                             25,000
Equipment for Rural Water Supply
Truck, 5-ton                                  1            5,000          5,000
Pick-up                                       1            3,000          3,000
Casing and screen pipe                       --              --          10,000
Pumpsets                                      4            3,000         12,000
Asbestos cement pipe                         --              --          85,000
Pipe fittings                                --              --          20,000
Miscellaneous tools                          __              __           5,000
Subtotal                                                            140,000
Grand Total (YD)                                                    755,000
(US$ Equivalent)                                     2,190,000
Source: Mission estimates.
April 1975



ANNEX 9
APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal                                     Cumulative Disbursements
Year and Quarter                                  at End of Quarter
(us$ 'ooo)
1975/76:
June 30, 1976                                            221
1976/77:
September 30, 1976                                       442
December 31, 1976                                        663
March 31, 1977                                         1,371
June 30, 1977                                          2,080
1977/78:
September 30, 1977                                     2,790
December 31, 1977                                      3,500
March 31, 1978                                         4,1 54
June 30, 1978                                          4,808
1978/79:
September 30, 1978                                     5,462
December 31, 1978                                      6,116
March 31, 1979                                         6,558
June 30, 1979                                          7,000
Source: Mission Estimates.



ANNEX 1 0
APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTUTRAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Organization and Management
1.        Project Organization.  Project implementation would be the respon-
sibility of the Hadramawt Project Organization (HPO), to be established at
Seyun under the Department of Planning and Statistics of the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR). HPO would be headed by an expatriate
Project Director, who would be an experienced agriculturalist. Two other
experienced expatriates - an expert in agricultural extension and an engineer,
would be a part of HPO. The terms of reference for the three expatriates are
at Appendix 1. HPO would include four Yemeni graduate officers, one of whom,
with experience in agriculture, would be the Co-Director of HPO and would be
the counterpart to the Project Director. Of the other three, one would be
an agriculturalist, one an engineer, and one an experienced accountant. Other
staff would include four supervisors, ten extension agents and the required
administrative staff.  The project organization, including functional respon-
sibilities of its various sections, is illustrated in Chart 9860.
2.        Consultants.  In addition to the consulting firm (Annex 7) for the
feasibility study and individual experts for HPO. short-term consultants would
be required for date production and the date packing plant.  Provision has
been made in the cost estimate for 120 man months of consultant's time for the
consulting firm, 108 man months for the three HPO exnerts, and 4 man months
for the short term consultants. The selection. terms of employment and terms
of reference of all of these consultants would be satisfactorv to TnlA.
June 23, 1975



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Terms of Reference for Experts for HPO
1.        All three experts should be graduates, preferably having a post-
graduate degree, in their respective fields and have at least ten years ex-
perience, except the Project Director who should have at least 15 years.
They should speak English and Arabic fluently.
2.        Project Director.  The Project Director would be responsible for
all detailed planning, arrangement of all procurements through concerned
governmental agencies, and timely project implementation. He would prepare
annual programs and budgets, appraise loan requests, approve all disbursements
and be responsiUe for implementation. In addition to his supervisory, manage-
rial and administrative functions, he would be responsible for:
(a) giving technical advice for the rehabilitation of agriculture
in the project area, with special attention to wheat cultivation;
(b) organizing agricultural production with a view to maximize
it;
(c) planning and executing the experimental program for improving
date cultivation and sand dune fixation;
(d) the date packing plant; and
(e)  the in-service training of Yemeni personnel.
3.        Extension Expert.  The extension expert would organize an extension
service in the area, and train the extension agents. He would be responsible
for determining the requirement of fertilizers and insecticides every year,
and for their proper distribution and application through the respective
farming organizations. He would render technical advice to the farming organ-
izations through the extension agents, would also organize demonstration farms
and farmers' training and would assist in appraisal of loan requests. He
would also maintain close liaison with the central research station at El-Kod
and the Seyun substation.
4.        Engineer Expert.  The engineer expert would be responsible for:
(a) suggesting improvements in water use including distribution
channels;



ANNEX 1 0
Appendix 1
Page 2
(b) rendering advice on pumpset maintenance and replacement
through close coordination with MRS;
(c) supervision of construction of the feeder roads;
(d) supervision of construction of rural water supply schemes;
(e) supervision of construction of works for sand dune fixation; and
(f) in-service training of Yemeni personnel.
The engineer would also maintain a close liaison with the consulting firm
engaged in the feasibility study and would assist in appraisal of loan requests.



ANNEX 11
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Farm Budgets
1.        Background.  At present, agriculture in Wadi Hadramawt is heavily
subsidized. Rental rates charged by MRS for agricultural equipment are only
55% of the actual operation and maintenance costs, and there is no attempt
to recover the capital cost of this equipment from the users. The annual
maintenance charge for the pumpsets is about one-third of the actual costs.
Fertilizer supplied presently to the project area is subsidized for about 50%.
These conditions are reflected in the "without project" farm budget, but under
the project, no subsidies for the fertilizer and operation and maintenance of
agricultural equipment and pumpsets have been included.
2.        Farm Budgets.  Since the cropping pattern and the farming practices
within the cooperatives, and within the state farms are similar, only two
farm budgets have been prepared to indicate the increase in farm incomes that
would result from the project. The budget relating to all cooperatives (Table
1) shows that the net income of all cooperative members, inclusive of the value
of family labor contribution, would increase by about 23%. Net income (in-
cluding return to family labor) of a cooperative member would also increase
by 23%, from YD 132 (US$384) per annum to YD 163 (US$472). As labor require-
ments are estimated to increase by 20%, the marginal return .o labor will be
slightly over the average. Government subsidy to cooperatives, net of reve-
nues, would decline hv 67% from YD 309,000 (USSO`' e'llion) to YD 103,000
(US$0.3 million).
3.        The national policy frame in which the project operates is one of
austerity in consumption in order to maximize national savings for productive
purposes, and to avoid excessive recourse to external sources. The population
in the project area has already comparatively high per capita incomes relative
to the rest of the nation because of substantial overseas' remittances and a
favorable natural resource endowment. It is also to be noted that the proposed
project will not exhaust opportunities for substantial increases in regional
income beyond the initial three year period. The future road link between the
Wadi Hadramawt and the major coastal centers may induce a shift toward pro-
duction of higher value crops, and the outcome of the feasibility study may
lead to a further extension of the irrigated area. In view of the above, it
is considered that an increase in cooperative members' remuneration of 23%
over the three-year period is adequate.
4.        The farm budget for the state farms (Table 2) indicates that the
net income from all state farms (1,500 ha) would also increase by 23% from



ANNEX 11
Page 2
YD 44,000 (US$128,000) to YD 54,000 (US$157,000), while Government subsidy,
net of revenue, would reduce by 68% from YD 58,000 (US$170,000) to YD 19,000
(US$55,000).
5.        The expanded tax revenues generated by the proposed project and the
revised input subsidies would have a very marked impact on the Treasury. Net
Government subsidy to the project area would reduce by 67% from YD 367,000
(US$1.06 million) to YD 122,000 (US$0.35 million). The relevant figures are
summarized below.
Without Project    With Project
(      YD-- - --------)
Public Revenue                           142,000           269,000
Subsidy                                  509,000           391,000
Net Subsidy                              367,000            122,000
Reduction                                                  245,000
Reduction (%)                                                67
June 23, 1975



ANEX1
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Farm Budget for All Production Cooperatives
Without Project                 With Pro lect
--------------------- YD0OOO -     ---------------- )
Gross Income from FarmingL.a                       1,142.8                        1,814.9
Less:  Production Costs/2                           790.2                         1.095.6
Net Value of Production                              352.6                          719.3
Plus:  Subsidy/3 Land preparation      74.8                           47.9
t   Irrigation         320.4                          271.1
, Fertilizers           18.2                            --
Threshing            13.8                            14.4
Subtotal                                        427.2                          333.4
Less:  Interest Seasonal Credit/4                     --                              8.9
Income before Taxes, Fees                           779.8                        1,043.8
Less:  Government TaxL5                86.5                          168.4
Cooperative Fee                 31.8                           61.8
Subtotal                                         118.3                          230.2
Total Net Income                                 661.5                          813.6
Incremental Income                                    --                            152.1
Percent Increase                                      --                            23%
Net Income per Member 8(YD)                          132.3                          162.7
Net Income per capita  (YD)                           24.1                           29.6
1 Numbers fronm Annex 11, Table 3.
2 Numbers from Annex 11, Table 5.
Numbers from Annex 11, Table 5.
For a 6 mouth period at 6% p.a. of fertilizers and insecticides costs.
Gavernment Tax:  15% of gross value  of cereal production and 5% of gross value of
vegetable production.
/< Cooperative Fee: 5% of gross value of cereal and vegetable production.
/7 At 5,000 members.
/ Average family of 5.5 persons.
Source: Mission Estimates
April 1975



ANNEX 1 1
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Farm Budget for All State Farms
Without Pro.ject                With Project
(------------------- YD'OOO -------------)
Gross Income from Farming/I                       187.1                           310.7
Less:  Production Cq tsL2             152.5                          208.7
Labor Costs                     49.0                           64.5
201.5                          273.2
Net Value of Production                            (14.4)                          37.5
Plus:  Subsidy,/3 Land preparation    17.0                            10.9
Ti  9  Irrigation           50.7                           42.9
it  71  Fertilizers         10.8                             --
"i  I  Threshing             3.7                            3.4
Subtotal                                        82.2                           57.2
Less:  Interest Seasonal Credit/4                    --                             2.0
Income before Taxes                                67.8                           92.7
Less:  Government TaxLA                            23.7                            38.7
Total Net Income                                   44.1                           54.0
Incremental Income                                                                 9.9
Percent Increase                                                                   23%
1 Numbers from Annex 11, Table 3.
/ Numbers from Annex 11, Table 5.
4 Numbers from Annex 11, Table 5.
/ For a 6 month period at 6% p.a. of fertilizers and insecticides costs.
/5  Government Tax:  15% of gross value of cereal production, and 5% of gross value
of vegetable production.
Source: Mission estimates
April 1975



APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECI
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMSN
Gross Value of Production
Crop                                                                                             Without Pro-ect                                                                    With ProTect
Ex-F.re Price   E-ononic Price           Area      Yield      Production       Market Vdlue      Er    0i0 Value          Ara       Yield       Produtdi         Market Valu       Econmic Valu
(IFDTtoo         (YD/ton.(a)                      ton/h.)      (tons)          (Y'00                                    Tha)      (ton/ha)      (on)Y'O)                              DO)
Cooperatives
Wheat (High Yielding)                  82             59                1,000        2.0         ?,000             164.0            118.0                 2,960       3.0          8,880           72d.2                523.9
Wheat (Local)                          87             59                2,700        1.2         3,240             265.7            191.2                   740       2.0          1,480            121.4                87.3
Rorghoa                               62              24                1,600        1.0         1,600             99.2              38.4                 1,600       2.0          3,200           198.4                 76.8
Vegetables-                            38             38                  300        7.8         ?,340             88.9              88.9                   300      14.8         4,440            168.7                168.7
Alfalfa                                S               5                  370       3500        12,950              64.8             64.8                   370      65.0         24,050           120.3                120.3
Seame                                120             156                  130        0.6            80              9.6              12.5                   130       0.9            115            13.8                 17.9
Srghum, spate irrigated               67              47                  500        0.6           300             18.6              14.1                   S00       0.6            300            18.6                 14.1
lata.                                 45              45             4xlO tre.o  24 kg/tree      9,600            432.0             432.0             4e105tree.    24.8kg/tree  9,900             445.5                445.5
S.btotal.                                                                                               1,142.8            959.9                                                         1.814.9              1.454.5
Incrental Value                                                                                                                                                                            672.1               494.6
Stte n mos
Wheat (High Yielding)                  82             59                   700       2.0         1,400             114.8             82.6                   700       3.0          2,100            172.2               123.9
Sorghue                               62              24                  600        1.0           600             37.2              14.4                   600       2.0          1,200            74.4                 28.8
Vagegabl-1oL                          38             38                    60        7.8           468             17.8              17.8                    60      14.8            888            33.7                 33.7
Alfalfa                                5               5                   70       35.0         2,450              12.3             12.3                    70      65.0          4,550             22.8                22.8
Se ee                                120             156                   70        0.6            42              5.0               6.6                    70       0.9             63             7.6                  9.8
Subtotal.                                                                                                 187.1            133.7                                                           310.7                219.0
Increnental Value                                                                                                                                                                          123.6                85.3
Cooearative. and State F-rs
I-creaental Value                                                                                                                                                                                              579.9
/I Weighted averge of four vegetables
8nuree: Iti..ion estimt..
April 1975



APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Physical Unit Input Coefficients
i                             /2               1
Crop                                Land         Seeds,    Irrigation        Fertilizer       Threshing       Labor
PreDaration   Nurseries       (wells)
(hrs/ha)      (kg/ha)    (103m3/ha)         (kg/ha)         (irs/ton)    (days/ha)
-        -------------------- WITHOUT PROJECT ---------------------------------
Wheat (High Yielding                 9.1          100           11.6            150               1.3            65
Wheat (Local)                        9.1          100           11.6             50               1.3            60
Sorghum                              9.1           20           15.3--                            1.3            50
Vegetables/5                        14.3          n.s.6         12.6             --                --           145
Alfalfa                              4. -3          7--         44.2            l oo-_                          160
Sesame                               9.1           10           11.6             --               --             40
Sorghum, spate irrigation            9.1           20            --              --               1.3            50
Date palms                            --           --     250 m3/tree            __               --        1 day/tree
-_____-__------------------ WITH PROJECT -----------------------------------
Wheat (High Yielding)                9.1          100           11.6            350               1.3            85
Wheat (Local)                        9.1          100           11 6            125               1.3            75
Sorghum   /5                         9.1           20           15.34           100               1.3            65
Vegetables                          14.3          n.s.6         12.6            350                --           180
Alfalfa                              4-3.26         7L6         44.2            250                --           200
Sesame                               9.1           10           11.6            100                --            40
Sorghum, spate irrigation            9.1           20            --              --               1.3            50
Date palms                            --           --    250 m /tree        3.3 kg/tree           --        1 day/tree
A   Including 30% travel time.
2  From Annex 3, Table 1; at 50% overall efficiency.
/ For details see Annex 2, Table 2.
4  Weighted average of summer and winter crop.
a  Weighted average of four vegetables.                                                                                       d
/6  Annual equivalents.
Source:  Mission estimates
April 1975



APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE' S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Aasregate Inputs. Costs and Subsidies
Land           Seeds,   ,  Well         --    Fertilizers ------
Item                               Unit          Preparation    Nurseries   ITrr ion   Urea            Superphosphate   Insecticides   Threshing            Totals             Labor
---------------_-------_-------_---------------------- WXTOIM  PROJECT ------------------------------------------------------
Aggregate Inputs'3
Cooperatives                                   59,840 hrs    YD49,500        139 Mm3      100 tons      87 tons            --        11,010 hrs                          O.84xlO3days
State rarms                                    13,630 hrs    YD 9,820         22 Mm3       70 tons      42 tons            --         2,940 hrs                             98xlO days
Unit Costs at Full                  YD              1.800,'hr       n.s.      4,150/Mm3        97/ton       89/ton           n.s.         1.800/ha                           0.500/dayL2
Unit Subsidyb                      YD               1.250/hr         --       2,305/Mm         92.5/ton    102.5/ton           --         1.250/ha                                __
Total Full Costs
Cooperatives                    YD'OOO             107.7        49.5         576.9           9.7           7.7             --            19.8            771.3                 --
State Farms                     YD'OO               24.5         9.8          91.3            6.8         3.7              --             5.3            141.4               49.0
Total Subsidies
Cooperatives                    YD'OOO              74.8         --          320.4            9.3          8.9              --           13.8            427.2                 --
State Farms                     YD'OOO              17.0         --           50.7            6.5          4.3                            3.7              82.2                --
----------------------------------------------------- WITH PROJECT --------------------------------------------------------
Aggregate InputsL-
Cooperatives                                    59,840 hrs    YD53,690       139 Mm3   1,095 tons    460 tons           YD28,000    18,020 hrs                            l.OlxlO days
State Farms                                     13,630 hr6    YD10,660        22 Mm       265 tons       90 tons        YD 7,000      4,290 hre                            129x1lO days
Unit Cost at Full                   YD              1.800/hr        n.s.      4,150/Mm3       97/ton        89/ton            n.e.        1.800/hr                             0.500/day3
Unit Subsidy/4                      YD              0.800/hr         --       1,950/Mm           --           --              --          0.800/hr                                --
Total Full Costs
Cooperatives                    YD'OOO             107.7        53.7         576.9         106.2         40.9              28.0          32.4            945.8                 --
State Farms                     YDOO0              24.5        10.7          91.3          25.7          8.0              7.0            7.7            174.9                64.5
Total Subsidies
Cooperatives                    YD'OOO              47.9         --          271.1            --           --              --            14.4             333.4                --
State Farms                     YD'OOO              10.9         --           42.9            --                                          3.4              57.2                __
----------------------------------------------------- INCREMENTS ------------------------------------------------------
(YD 000)
Total Full Costs
Cooperatives                                                                                                                                             174.5                 --
State Farms                                                                                                                                               33.5                15.5
Cooperatives and State Farms                                                                                                                                 208.0
1 As per Annex 11, Tables 3 and 4.
j Wage labor in state farms only.
3 Current input subsidies.
/   Users charged for full operation and maintenance cost of tractor inputs and pumpsets;  charged for full cost of fertilizer and insecticides;
subsidy limited to annuity due on subloans for machinery and pumpsets.
Source:  Mission estimates
April 1975



ANNEX 12
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL P'QOJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Economic Analysis
1.        The economic rate of return to all incremental investments financed
under the project, but excluding the cost of the feasibility study, was com-
puted on the basis of the estimates given in Table 1. Major assumptions
underlying the computation include:
(a) commodity prices for cereals and oilseeds are based on import
paritv prices, derived from projections of the Bank's Economic
Analysis and Projections Department;
(b) the economic input/output price ratios are constant during the
projected life;
(c) the opportunity cost of all agricultural labor is one-third of
the wage rate since labor shortages occur at harvest time, there
are substantial labor surpluses at other periods of the year, and
labor requirements for harvest are about one-third of total
labor inputs;
(d) wherever justified, transfer payments are eliminated from the
project appraisal;
(e) no allowance is made for additional benefits of infrastructural
elements;
(f)  no allowance is made for benefits on account of replacement of
equipment beinR furnished under the project;
(g) no allowance is made for future shifts toward higher value
crops on account of the new road link to the coast: the assess-
ment of the project in terms of present cropping patterns, there-
fore, tends to be a minimum estimate of long-term developments; and
(h) full production will be reached in year 3 and in a linear fashion.
2.        Based on these assumptions, the economic rate of return has been
estimated to be 17%. The basic rate of return, some disaggregated rates of
return, and their sensitivity to a 25% increase in costs, are tabulated below:



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Item                                              ERR
Basic Run    25% cost increase
(1)  Agricultural investment, management,
research, feeder roads, rural water
supply, date packing plant                   17%                8%
(2) As above, excluding rural water
supply                                       21%               11%
(3)  Date packing plant                           11%                5%
3.        If labor is priced at the full monetary wage (without shadow pricing)
the ERR would be 13%.
June 23, 1975



APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Economic Rate of Return
Item                                                                                           Project Years
1          2          3        4-6       7        8-11       12        13-16        17        18-21       22         23-25
(------------------------------------------------  YD'OOO  -----------------------------__-------)
Project Investments /I                   629       1.019       416                                      --
Supplies, Equipment and Works          445         642       244        --       --        --         --
Management                              97         116       117         --      --        --         --         --         --          --         --         --
Research                                27           8         3         --      --        --         --         --         --          --         --         --
Agro-Industry                           --         120        --         --       --        --        --         --         --          --         --          --
Rural Water Supply                      60         133        52         --      --         --        --         --         --          --         --          --
Replacements /2                           --           --        --        --       17        --        67         --          17         --         67          --
Incremental Operating Coscs               80         16         302       161      361      361         6.1       .6         361        36.         361         361
Feeder Roads  /3                        --            4         8         8        8         8         8          8           8          8           8          8
Crop Production /A                      69         139       208       208      208       208        208        208        208         208        208        208
Agricultural Labor A                    11          22        33        33       33         33        33         33         33          33         33         33
Management                              -- -_-                 --        24       24        24        24         24         24          24         24          24
Date Packing FlAnAL6                    --           -         41        76       76        76        76         76          76         76         76          76
Rural Water Supply                      --          --        12         12       12        12        12         12         12          12         12          12
Total Incremental Costs                            1 118L                 361      378       361        28         =                     361        428          X
Total Incremental Benefits                                     !L629                                   678        678           8
Crop Production /7                     193         387       580       580      580       580        580        580        58o         580        580         580
Date Packing Plant /                    --          --        49         98       98        98        98         98         98          98         98          98
/1 As per Annex 8, Table 2, including cost contingencies.
/2 As per Annex 6, Table 2.
/3 Maintenance coat at 2% of capital cost.
/4 As per Annex 11, Table 5.
/5 As per Annex 6, Table 1.
/6  Operation and maintenance, at 5% of capital cost.                                           
/7  As per Annex 11, Table 3.                                                                                                                                          o x
/B  As per Annex 12, page 1, assumption (g).
April 1975



WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Implementation Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year             |    1976                  1977                         1978                         1979
PDRY Fiscal & Calendar Year                    1976                         1977                         1978                          1979
Fertilizer & Insecticide
Procurement
D istri bution                                  IgIEIIIIIu   EIEUIUEIEIEUUBIUUEEISE  3**EU*I*hhE*UEEhUUUUIIE3I IEUUU3U**lE**
Agricultural Equipment
Procurement
Irrigation Equipment
Procurement
Feeder Roads
Procurement of Equipment
Construction
Sand Dune Fixation                                         -
Date Packing Plant
Rural Water Supply
Procurement
Construction                                             -
Feasibility Study
Legend
ElSIlEDDE  Intermittent Activity                                                                                                          World Bank-9858 (Ri






APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Organization of a Production Cooperative
Agricultural
Production
Administrative
Council                                                                           Marketing
Accounts and                                                                                              Subcommittees               Social Welfare
Clerical Staff                                        Chairman                                                             __          Socia  Wore
Members                                                                         Collective Work
Secretary                                                                   _  Supervision and
Control
Information
Collective                                                                                Collective
Unii                                                                                      Unit
Production               Production                  Production
unit                      Unit                       Unit
Working                       king                   Working                              Working                    Working                    Working
Group                     Group                      Group                                Group                      Group                      Group
Members                   Members                    Members                             Members                    Members                     Members
World Bank-9859






APPRAISAL OF
WADI HADRAMAWT AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Hadramawt Project Organization
| Minister of Agriculture 
Local Advisory Committee
Director Planning                                     National Co. for Home
District Officer, Seyun - Chairman                                                                                                   and Foreign Trade
District Officer, Qatn  -  Co-Chairman
Project Director     -  Member
Director State Farms  -
Manager MRS          -     "                                                                                                        Horticulture Coop Union
Manager NBY          -                                                        Project Director (E)
Representative of PWD-
Representative of NWC-
Chairmen of Coops   -  Members                                                   Co-Director
Co-Director          -  Secretary
Consulting Firm (E)                    Engineer Expert (El                                                           Extension Expert (El
Feasibiity                             Counterpart                                                                    Counterpart                             Accountant
Study                                                                                                                                                             I
Supervisors                            Supervisors                                                                 Administration
l                         _                         __     _                                      & Accounts Staff
VVWater Use                          _ Agriculturall
Wricutur                            Extension Agents                          Project accounts
I                 ~~~~~~production
Improvement of                                                                                                        Advice to
distribution                           Rehabilitation
channels                               of Agriculture                         Distribution of                         accountants of
channels            of Agriculture                        ~~~~~~~~fertilizer                      cooperatives
Advice on pump                         Experimental                                                                   & state farms
maintenance and                        work on dates                          Crop protection                         General administration
Note. Experts are                             replacement                             & sand dune                            Technical advice                       Vehicles
indicated by '(Er' Feeder roads                                                 fixation                               Liaison with
Date packing                          research
Rural water supply                     plant                                  Demonstration
Works for sand                                                                farms and
dune fixation                                                                training of farmers
World Bank-9860






IBRD-11614
06CM  --  '1    IflMO  4820              450 40                                                               49020                                     JUrY  975~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UI 17
.-I -ADIAeA514 ,*-                                   PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
-                    JAUITED ARAd S
\ROXCAR '  A GR I  U LT U  A LP R OJ EACUT                                                     PROJEC
hOA '<\ ~~~~~~~~~Wadi Hadromawt ;
EAAAO  ;' \  I---/R o2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
I       SF 'A'                                                          :' 20
-t - ISRAROC  AERHIAP \Av                                                                                                           - -0000410TWN0NDVILA
_   .1   E ,@ t;<   tSn\'l                          4* h D                                                                4? | DO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-. U
- 90          JORAEd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,00 ~   ILA
Pd  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~            AIRED     /50120                                                                                                00401 A/N/CC ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\L-T
6N
00  OASIS          V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 



