CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 615 YDR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project)
between
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 22, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 22, 1976, between PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions: Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "HPO" means the Hadramawt Project Organization to be
established pursuant to Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(b) "NBY" means the National Bank of Yemen, established under
the Borrower's Law No. 37 of 1969, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;
(c) "LAC" means the Local Advisory Committee to be estab-
lished pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(d) "HCU" means the Horticulture Cooperative Union, the pub-
lic agency nominated by the Borrower to establish and manage the
date packing plant provided in Part C of the Project;


﻿- 3 -
(e) "Cooperative Farms" means the Cooperative Farms organized
under the Borrower's Law No. 46 of 1972;
(f) "State Farms" means the State Farms organized under the
Borrower's Law No. 27 of 1970;
(g) "Machinery Renting Station" means the Machinery Renting
Station, an agency of the Borrower responsible for operating and
maintaining agricultural equipment in the Project Area;
(h)  "sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
through NBY to a Beneficiary for carrying out activities related
to the Project;
(i) "Beneficiary" means State or Cooperative Farms or the
departments, organizations, or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out activities related to the Project and which are
eligible to receive a sub-loan for that purpose in accordance with
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(j) "Implementing Departments or Agencies" means the depart-
ments, organizations or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out activities related to the Project and which are eli-
gible to receive a portion of the proceeds of the Credit for that
purpose in accordance with Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
2
(k)  "Project Area" means an area of about 1,200 km2 located
in the Wadi Hadramawt valley in the northern and central districts
of the Fifth Governorate and extending from Khasha'a in the West
to As-som in the East; and


﻿(1) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and NBY pursuant to Section
3.01(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such terms include all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to seven million dollars ($7,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services re-
quired for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods, works and services (other than consultants' services)
for the Project shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-6-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 1986, and ending Au-
gust 15, 2025, each installment to and including the installment
payable on August 15, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purDoses of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. NBY is designated as representative of the Bor-
rower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be
carried out Parts A and C of the Project through NBY and Parts B,
D, E and F of the Project through its Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform, in coordination with other concerned ministries,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
agricultural, engineering, administrative, economic and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facil-
ities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall cause NBY to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, nec-
essary or appropriate to enable NBY to perform such obligations.
(c) The Borrower shall relend to NBY for the purpose of car-
rying out Parts A and C of the Project a portion of the proceeds
of the Credit under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NBY under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Association, including the principal
terms set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
may be amended from time to time.


﻿- 8 -
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in (a) the over-
all implementation of the Project, (b) date production and process-
ing and the preparation of specifications and bidding documents
and the evaluation of bids in respect of Part C of the Project,
and (c) carrying out Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall em-
ploy or cause to be employed consultants and experts whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) To facilitate the carrying out of the Proj-
ect, the Borrower shall establish at Seiyun, under the Department
of Planning and Statistics of the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrar-
ian Reform, the Hadramawt Project Organization (HPO). IPO shall
have such membership, organization and terms of reference as shall
be accentable to the Association.
(b) HPO shall have overall responsibility for planning, im-
plementing and maintaining the project including, inter alia, the
responsibility for: (i) preparation or approval of contract docu-
ments and technical specifications for all project procurement;
(ii) technical appraisal and approval of all sub-loans in respect
to Parts A and C of the Project; and (iii) approval and making of
all disbursements in respect of Parts B, D, E and F of the Project.


﻿-9-
(c) The Borrower shall cause ITPO to employ: (i) not later
than six months after the date of this Agreement, or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association,
three experts, including a Director for HPO; (ii) a local graduate,
to serve as Co-Director for HPO. The initial Co-Director and his
successors shall be appointed in consultation with the Association;
and (iii) three qualified local specialists, respectively in agri-
culture, engineering and accountancy.
Section 3.04. To advise the Project Director on local affairs,
the Borrower shall establish, not later than three months after
the Effective Date, or such other date as shall be agreed between
the Borrower and the Association, a Local Advisory Committee (LAC)
under the Chairmanship of the District Officer at Seivun and the
Co-Chairmanship of the District Officer at Qatn and with HPO Co-
Director serving as its Secretary. Hembership of LAC shall include,
inter alia, HPO Director, the Director of State Farms, Manager of
the Machinery Renting Station, the local representatives of NBY,
the Public Works Department and the National Water Corporation of
the Borrower, the Officer in charge of the Seiyun Research Substa-
tion and the Chairmen of the Cooperative Farms in the Project Area.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause HCU to provide
twenty per cent (20%) of the estimated cost of the date packing
plant provided in Part C of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause NBY to lend part of the proceeds
of the Credit to HCU to finance eighty per cent (80%) of the esti-
mated cost of the date packing plant provided in Part C of the


﻿- 10 -
Project in accordance with a sub-loan agreement to be entered into
between NBY and HCU under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall set or cause HCU to set: (i)
the buying price of premium quality dates at a higher level than
that of dates below that quality standard to encourage the process-
ing of quality dates; and (ii) the selling price of the dates pro-
cessed in the date packing plant provided in Part C of the Project
at appropriate levels to ensure a reasonable return on investment
in the'date packing plant.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to promptly: (i)
procure the base requirement of fertilizer and insecticide in the
Project Area for the second and third crop years after the Effective
Date; and (ii) procure and utilize in the Project Area sufficient
quantities of fertilizer and insecticides for subsequent years, at
least in quantities equivalent to those applied or planned to be
applied during the last year of Project implementation.
(b) The Borrower undertakes to arrange to fully recover the
costs of the procurement and distribution of fertilizer and insec-
ticide in the Project Area.
.1
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower undertakes to: (i) provide fi-
nancial support to the Machinery Renting Station and the Coopera-
tive Farms to assure that they have funds sufficient to pay amounts
due on sub-loans extended to them under the Credit to finance pur-
chase and utilization of agricultural equipment and pumpsets pro-
vided in Part A of the Project; and (ii) finance from its own


﻿- 11 -
resources all future replacements of agricultural equipment and
pumpsets needed in the Project Area.
(b) The Borrower shall cause: (i) the Machinery Renting Sta-
tion to increase its rental and maintenance rates to a level cor-
responding to the actual operations and maintenance costs of agri-
cultural equipment and pumpsets operated in the Project Area; and
(ii) the rental rates of the Machinery Renting Station and payments
for pumpset cost recovery by the Cooperative Farms to be reviewed
and readjusted at regular intervals not exceeding three years so
as to achieve the maximum practicable cost recovery.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall cause its departments or
agencies responsible therefor to maintain properly the feeder roads
and water supply works to be constructed as provided in Part B of
the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause its responsible departments or
agencies to determine and collect water supply charges sufficient
to at least cover operation and maintenance costs in respect of
the water supply works constructed as provided in Part B(2) of the
Project.
Section 3.10. The Borrower undertakes to complete necessary
arrangements with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
to secure when necessary for the Project the services of two UNDP
experts with experience in tubewell drilling and forestry already
working in the Borrower's territory.


﻿- 12 -
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall consult with the Association
in respect of the program and the qualifications of candidates for
the overseas training provided in Part F(2) of the Project.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.13. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the gc3ds and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of


﻿- 13 -
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records adequate to reflect, in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices, the oper-
ations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of NBY,
the Beneficiaries and the Implementing Departments or Agencies.
(b) In respect of the Project, the Borrower shall cause NBY,
the Beneficiaries and the Implementing Departments or Agencies to:
(i) have their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, by the Borrower's Central Organization
for Audit; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in'any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of their financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning the accounts and financial state-
ments of NBY, the Beneficiaries and the Implementing Departments
or Agencies, and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower undertakes to provide the Associa-
tion, during the Project implementation period and thereafter for


﻿- 15 -
the next five years, with information, adequate in scope and readily
usable in form, on input, yields and production within the Project
Area.
Section 4.03. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that (a) interest rates
on sub-loans under the Project shall not be less than 6%, 5-1/2%
and 5% for short-, medium- or long-term sub-loans as set forth or
referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (b) any future
upward adjustments of interest rates by NBY shall also be applied
to sub-loans extended under the Project.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a) HPO has been established in accordance with the provi-
sions of Section 3.03 of this Agreement and its three local spe-
cialists have been appointed in accordance with subsection C(iii)
of Section 3.03.
(b) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment on behalf of the Borrower and NBY, respectively, have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and cor-
porate action.
Section 5.02. The date July 21, 1976 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date thirteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrowerz Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is de-
signated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Sec-
tion 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
Tawahi, Aden
P.O. Box 1193
People's Democratic Republic
of Yemen
Cable address:
TAKHTEET
Aden
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By Is/ Abdalla Saleh Ashtal
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of expend-
itures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Agricultural
Equipment
and Supplies
(a)  imported             2,226,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  domestically            50,000          85%
procured
(2) Civil Works
(Feeder Roads
and Water Sup-
ply Works)
(a) Equipment               731,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  Construction         1,226,000          100%
(3) Date Packing                 290,000          100% of foreign
Plant                                        expenditures
(4) Feasibility                  728,000          100%
Study


﻿- 20 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5) Experimental                 117,000          100%
Programs
(sand dune
stabilization,
crops and op-
timizing
date palms'
yield)
(6) Management,                1,052,000          100%
Consultants
and Training
(7) Unallocated                  580,000
TOTAL      7,000,000


﻿- 21 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means .ixpenditures in the currency of any country other than
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit de-
creases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to an-
other Category and which in the opinion of the Association are not


﻿- 22 -
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that fur-
ther withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expend-
itures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   1f the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opin-
ion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would other-
wise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Credit,


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Agricultural Equipment and Supplies
(1) Purchase of about thirty-five tractors and other
farm implements and one hundred pumps and about
one hundred and fifty diesel engines;
(2) Purchase of about 1,900 tons of fertilizer and
20 tons of insecticide.
Part B:   Civil Works
(1) Construction of about 120 km of feeder roads to
connect villages in the Project Area with the
main Qatn-Tarim Road in accordance with Annex A
to this Schedule;
(2) Construction of two rural water supply works near
the towns of Shibam and Qatn in accordance with
Annex B to this Schedule.
Part C:   Date Packing Plant
Establishment and management of a date fumigation and
packing plant rar the town of Seiyun with initial ca-
pacity to process about 700 tons of dates per year.


﻿- 24 -
Part D:   Feasibility Study
Completion of a feasibility study, initiated and partly
funded under the Fisheries Project (IDA Credit 370-YDR),
to explore groundwater sources and their potential in the
valley and to prepare a scheme for their development.
Part E:   Exper-mental Programs
(1) An experimental program to stabilize sand dunes near
the western boundary of the Project Area:
(2) An experimental program on crops at the Seiyun
Research Substation:
(3) An experinental program to optimize yield from
existing date palms varieties on farms in Project
Area.
Part F:   Management, Consultant Services and Training
(1) Project organization, including an agricultural
extension service, to ensure proper utilization of
fertilizers and insecticides in the Project Area
and to disseminate recommendations of the Seiyun
Research Substation and the El-Kod Research Station;
(2) A three-year program of consultant services for
project management including local counterpart


﻿- 25 -
staff, and for in-service and overseas training for
local personnel in project-related skills.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.


﻿- 26 -
ANNEX A TO SCHEDULE 2
Feeder Roads
Village to be
Connected with              Population               Length of
Main Road                     Served                 Feeder Road
(km)
Al-Karich                       1,500                     3
Koda Moshta                     2,000                    11
Thibi                           2,500                     2
Suwayri                         4,500                     3
Taribah                         5,500                    10
Boor                            2,800                     3
Madudah                         3,000                     5
Shahuh                            900                    6
Juaymah                         2,000                     8
Jifl                            1,500                     3
Mosheh                          2,000                     6
Algarrah                        1,000                     5
Ghuseis                         1,500                    8
Haynan                          1,200                     8
Hedieh                            700                     2
Al-Aneen                        3,000                     5
Khasha'a                        1,800                    18
Al-Jawada                       1,000                    11
El-Sugair                         600                     3
39,000                   120


﻿- 27 -
ANNEX B TO SCHEDULE 2
Rural Water Supply Schemes
Village or Town                          Village or Town
to be Served          Population         to be Served         Population
Shibam Scheme                            Qatn Scheme
Western Mains                           Eastern Mains
Shibam                8,000             Zaw                     900
Khumair                 800             Alialltag                500
Khashamer             1,100             Gahwara                  400
Aqqad                 1,000             Madothila                200
Anin                  1,300
Subtotal        11,000             Bir Nassir              400
Billaleh                300
Eastern Mains                           Kharaba                  800
Al Habn                 100
Saheel                2,000             Hadieh                  900
Hazm                  1,000
Hauta and others     10,000                  Subtotal          5,800
Garey                 1,000
Ghurfah               5,000             Western Mains
Subtotal        19,000             Qatn                  2,500
Khabba                  400
Total           30,000             Babakr                  400
Fo t
Dafaan                   800
Subtotal         4,400
Total           10,200


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, goods, works and serv-
ices shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions set forth in Part A.1 above:
(i)       procurement of minor items with an aggregate value
not exceeding $50,000 may be in accordance with
local procedures acceptable to the Association;
(ii)      construction of feeder roads and water supply works
provided in Part B of the Project may be carried
out by force account or under negotiated contracts
under arrangements acceptable to the Association;
and
(iii)     the experimental programs provided in Part E of the
Project may be carried out by force account under
arrangements acceptable to the Association.
B.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts.


﻿- 29 -
1.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $10,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any fur-
ther modification to the bidding documents shall require the Asso-
ciation's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and the reasons for the intended award and shall fur-
nish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a de-
tailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together with the recommendation for award and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsist-
ent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Bor-
rower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the


﻿- 30 -
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the con-
tract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 4
Principal Terms of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
A.   Lending Terms - Borrower to NBY:
Repayment period of 12 years, including two years of grace;
not less than 3% per annum rate of interest.
B.   Lending Terms - NBY to Beneficiaries:
1.   To Machinery Renting Station and State Farms for purchase
of agricultural equipment provided in Part A(1) of the
Project. Repayment period of 5 to 7 years; not less than
5-1/2% per annum rate of interest;
2.   To Cooperative Farms for purchase of pumps and diesel
engines provided in Part A(1) of the Project. Repayment
period of 5 to 7 years; not less than 5-1/2% per annum
rate of interest;
3.   To Cooperative and State Farms for purchase of fertilizer
and insecticide provided in Part A(2) of the Project.
Maximum repayment period of 1 year; not less than 6% per
annum rate of interest; and
4.   To HCU for execution of Part C of the Project. Repayment
period of 10 years, including two years of grace; not
less than 5% per annum rate of interest.


