Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19160
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ANTANANARIVO URBAN WORKS PROJECT
(Cr. 2591-MAG)
April 19,1999
Water and Urban Unit
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Malagasy Franc
1989: US$ 1,00 = FMG 1603            1994: US$ 1,00 = FMG 3067
1990: US$ 1,00 = FMG 1494           1995: US$ 1,00 = FMG 4266
1991 : US$ 1,00 = FMG 1835          1996: US$ 1,00 = FMG 4061
1992: US$ 1,00 = FMG 1864           1997: US$ 1,00 = FMG 5091
1993 US$ 1,00 = FMG 1914            1998: US$ 1,00 = FMG 5000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
(English/French Translation)
AGETIP            Agency for the Execution of Public Works  Agence d'execution des travaux d'interet
public
AGETIPA           Agency for the Execution of Infrastmcture   Agence d'execution des travaux
Works in Antananarivo                 d'infrastructures publiques d'Antananarivo
AMEXTIPE          Mauritanian Agency for the Execution of   Agence mauritanienne d'ex6cution des
Public Works and Employment           travaux d'int6rft public et pour l'emploi
AUWP              Antananarivo Urban Works Project       Projet de voiries urbaines d'Antananarivo
CETE              Technical Studies Center of the Ministry of  Centre d'etude techniques du Ministere de
Equipment                             1' equipement
CNFTP             National Council for Technical and     Centre national de formation technique et
Professional Training                 professionnelle
CTNDU             National Technical Committee for Urban    Comite technique national pour le
Development                           developpement urbain
FAC               French Cooperation Fund                Fonds d'aide et de cooperation
FMG               Malagasy Franc                         Franc malgache
GNP               Gross National Product                 Produit national brut (PNB)
GOM               Government of Madagascar               Gouvemement de Madagascar
IDA               International Development Association  Association intemationale de
developpement
JIRAMA (Jiro Sy   Electricity and Water of Madagascar    Eau et Electricite de Madagascar
Rano Malagasy)
MATV              Ministry of Town and Country Planning  Ministere de la Ville et de l'Amenagement
du Territoire
MTP              NMinistry of Public Works               Ministere des travaux publics
PIP               Public Investment Program              Programme des investissements publics
PPF               Project Preparation Facilitation       Avance de preparation de projet
SMEs              Small and Medium Enterprises           Petites et Moyennes entreprises
TELMA             Telecommunications of Madagascar       Tel6communications de Madagascar
Vice President:               Callisto Madavo, AFRVP
Country Director:             Michael Sarris, AFC08
Sector Manager:               Jeffrey Racki, AFTU 1
Task Team Leader:             Arnaud Guinard, AFTU1



TABLE OF CONTENTS FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
Page
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.      Project identity ...................................................................................................................I
B.      Introduction ..................               . ....... . I
C.  Project Objectives                               . . . . ....l
D.   Project Description .........                                          . . . . .2
E.     Project Preparation ........................................... .......... .   3
F.     Project Implementation ...............      . .........                      .3
G.     Achievement of Objectives ... . ..........................................................................................5
H.      Major Factors Affecting the Project ................................... ........................6
I.  Project Sustainability                              .        . ...7
J.     IDA   Perfornance ............................................................8..................................................8
K.     Borrower Performance .............. . . . ..............................................................................8......8
L.  Project Outcome .......9
M.    Key Lessons Leamed .............. .       ........................................ .................9
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:           Summary of Assessments
Table 2:           Related IDA Credits
Table 3:           Project Timetable
Table 4:           Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:           Key Indicators for Project Performance
Table 6:           Studies included in Project
Table 7A:          Project Costs
Table 7B:          Project Financing
Table 7C:          Credit Allocations per Category
Table 8:           Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:           Bank Resources: Staff Inputs in staff/weeks
Table 10:          Bank Resources: Missions
Table 11:          Contracts Distribution per Size of Enterprises
Table 12:          Estimated Wages According to Types of Works
Annex 1:           Borrower Comments on the ICR
Annex 2:           Completion Report by the Borrower
Annex 3:          ICR Mission Aide-Memoire
Map IBRD No. 20035R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ANTANANARIVO URBAN WORKS PROJECT
CREDIT 2591-MAG
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Antananarivo Urban Works Project in
Madagascar, for which Credit 2591-MAG in an amount of SDR 13,3 million (US $18,3 million equivalent)
was approved on March 29, 1994, and made effective on August 1, 1994.
The Credit closed on the original closing date of December 31, 1998. It was fully disbursed, and the
last disbursement took place on August 31, 1998. Cofinancing for the Project was provided by the French
Cooperation Fund (FAC) in an amount of US $170,000.
A first draft of the ICR was prepared by Luc Cosyn, Consultant. The final report has been prepared by
Arnaud Guinard, Task Team Leader, and reviewed by Jeffrey Racki, Sector Manager (AFTU1), Manorama
Gotur, Operations Analyst (AFC08), and Michael Sanris, Country Director for Madagascar (AFC08).
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final completion mission in September 1998. It
is based on materials in the project files, the Appraisal Report and the Development Credit Agreement. The
Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing its own completion report, as well as
commenting on the draft ICR.
-1i-



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ANTANANARIVO URBAN WORKS PROJECT: CREDIT 2591-MAG
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
During the early 1990s the economy of Madagascar was mired in stagnation. Per capita GDP was clearly
on the decline, hovering around US $230. Constraints affecting basic infrastructure in general, and roads
in particular were identified as among the most serious impediments to Madagascar's economic
development. This situation sparked recognition of the need for a more effective infrastructure delivery
system. The International Development Association (IDA) shared its experience with the Malagasy
Government regarding the establishment of public works executing agencies. These discussions led the
formulation and implementation of the Antananarivo Urban Works Project.
Project Objectives
The primary objective of the Antananarivo Urban Works Project was to demonstrate the benefits of the
delegated contract management system as a tool for managing and maintaining infrastructure works. It
was also intended to serve as model for subsequent broader application. The two central development
objectives of the Project were: (i) to rapidly bring the infrastructure of Antananarivo to a satisfactory
level, with a priority given to roads, and (ii) to develop formal domestic SMEs in the construction and
engineering industry, strengthening their capacity to design, execute, and supervise a wide range of public
works. The associated objectives were: (i) to strengthen the management capacity of the municipality, (ii)
to create jobs by encouraging the use of labor-intensive technologies, whenever economically efficient,
and (iii) to stimulate growth in the construction industry and in the economy as a whole. The project was
based on the principle of community participation in order to increase the voice of users and stakeholders
in maintenance planning and establish a closer link between the municipality's actions and the wishes of
the public.
Components
The project resulted in (i) the creation of an executing agency,Agence d'Execution de Travaux
d 'Infrastructure Publique d'Antananarivo (AGETIPA), (ii) the execution of sub-projects to improve the
infrastructure in Antananarivo, (iii) the establishment of a training program for SMEs and public
institutions, and (iv) the provision of services to inform the public about the approach of the project and
the work program.
Implementation Experience and Results
Project implementation began very rapidly and proceeded throughout relatively smoothly despite difficult
traffic conditions, inexperienced contractors and delays in mobilizing counterpart funds. Performance
indicators for management and physical results mostly exceeded expectations throughout project
execution. The total cost of the works and studies was US $20.5 million for a total of 874 signed
contracts. Disbursements slightly exceeded appraisal estimates and the credit was fully disbursed on
schedule. However, the speed with which the project was implemented and disbursements were made
appears to have masked a number of problems during project execution.
- Ui -



Technical audits complied only partially with the terms of reference set out in the Manual of Procedures;
limited effort was made to examine the implications of choosing certain technical options and packaging
of contracts on procurement arrangements, as well as to review compliance with IDA procurement
procedures. Many sub-projects were subdivided into small contracts to an illogical and inordinate extent.
The result was a total number of work contracts all out of proportion with the number estimated at
preparation (732 instead of 310).  Although small enterprises were supposed to have been the
beneficiaries of such exercise, most of the contracts were executed by two large firms which built
infrastructure costing FMG 48 billion, or 51,2 percent of the entire project.  Compliance with
procurement procedures was also deficient. In some instances, ICB should have been undertaken instead
of LCB and requirements for IDA prior review were not met.
Rehabilitation of urban works in Antananarivo. Under the project, 106 km of roads, 111 km of
sidewalks, and 104 km of drains were rehabilitated, 8 km of stairs and alleyways and about 100 retaining
walls were built or repaired, and five markets and various public places were developed. Sub-project
viability was demonstrated by an internal rate of return of over 20 percent. A steady improvement in the
quality of the works was observed as the project progressed.
Job creation and poverty alleviation. Throughout, the project generated 133,000 man-months of
employment in direct jobs. The resulting payroll amounted to some FMG 18 billion or about 20 percent
of the total cost of the works. Many suppliers to whom contractors tumed for the works benefited in
terms of employment and income. Together with this multiplier effect, increase mobility of the
population also had a positive impact on job creation, particularly in outlying districts.
Promotion of consulting firms and private enterprises and stimulation of growth in the public works
sector. Overall, the number of failures among the SMEs which contracted with AGETIPA was low.
Substantial training was provided and a considerable effort was undertaken to mobilize SMEs which
enjoyed the benefits of technological progress, since most of them were involved in the project at its
inception. A set of "Quality Standards," a list of technical specifications which they drew up together
under AGETIP's guidance, also had a positive impact on the quality of works. SMEs in the civil works
sector in Antananarivo also became better organized. An association was established during the project
and entrepreneurs met periodically under its auspices to share their experience. Although the project
expanded and stabilized existing SMEs in the sector, it led to the establishment of very few, if any, new
firms.
Strengthening the management capacity of the municipality. AGETIPA assisted the municipality in using
its services as best as possible and improved the interaction of the municipality with its service users.
This was achieved by involving district organizations on an individual basis through surveys, media
campaigns and direct assistance to neighborhood committees during sub-project identification and
execution.
Borrower and IDA Performance
The Borrower made a significant contribution during project formulation and preparation. It did its
utmost to meet all the conditions for project effectiveness expeditiously.   However during
implementation, there were recurrent delays in mobilizing counterpart funds, and continuity in decision-
making was somewhat hampered by the frequent tumover of Ministers. While the municipality received
adequate assistance to identify sub-projects and establish priorities, its ability to maintain rehabilitated
works remains inadequate because of lack of financial resources. Overall, AGETIPA performed well
under difficult conditions and achieved the major objectives assigned to it. Its performance in complying
with procurement procedures was, however, deficient.
- i11 -



IDA played a key role in project identification and was successful in winning the support of the Malagasy
authorities for the delegated contract management system. The appraisal mission went very smoothly,
paving the way for rapid implementation. IDA performance during these phases of project processing
was highly satisfactory. During project execution, IDA supervised the project by sending two to three
missions annually, It also relied on the work undertaken by technical assistance missions financed by the
French Cooperation Fund (FAC). All these missions focussed primarily on the progress and quality of
works, and on training aspects. However, important issues which emerged during implementation
concerning the coverage of technical audits, choices of technical options, packaging of contacts and
compliance with IDA procurement procedures were overlooked. IDA performance in addressing these
issues and taking corrective measures during supervision is deemed unsatisfactory.
Project Outcome
The project has achieved the objectives intended at appraisal and its results are considered satisfactory.
By demonstrating the benefits of using contracted out services, AGETIPA has proven it is an effective
instrument for assisting municipalities in infrastructure rehabilitation, promoting SMEs in the public
works sector and creating jobs. After initial reluctance from Govemment officials, the delegated contract
management system appears to have won the support of many local officials. IDA has financed a second
project covering five secondary cities (Credit 2968-MAG) whose implementation is now picking up after
an initial slow start.
While physical results achieved during the project are substantial, the sustainability of rehabilitated works
remains uncertain in the absence of sufficient resources for maintenance. The longer term sustainability
of the delegated contract management system and of AGETIPA greatly depends on mobilizing additional
resources not only from extemal donors other than IDA but also from domestic sources, in particular
through the establishment of the Road Maintenance Fund.
Key Lessons Learned
Key lessons learned from this project can be divided in two main categories: those specific to this
operation and AGETIPA itself, and those of a general nature which can apply to other similar AGETIP
operations.
Project related lessons
*   On the institutional front; it is necessary to expand the General Assembly of AGETIPA to
reflect the composition envisaged in the appraisal report (including, for example, mayors,
major utilities, and industry representatives). Steps have now been taken under the urban
infrastructure project (Credit No. 2968-MAG) to ensure a broader representation at the
Board.
*   With regard to financial matters, and in the interest of ensuring the sustainability of
AGETIPA, it is essential that it accesses additional financial resources needed to carry out
its activities from other donors and local sources (e.g. the Road Maintenance Fund).
AGETIPA should also set aside sufficient resources to meet cash requirements from
administrative expenses arising from temporary but recurrent declines in its level of
activities.
- iv -



*   Regarding the packaging of contracts, there should be a gradual shift towards larger
contracts. This would reduce administrative costs and have a positive impact on the
development of small enterprises.
*   With respect to procurement, IDA shall ensure that technical audits systematically include
a review of contracts and an analysis of compliance with procurement procedures set forth in
the Manual of Procedures and the Credit Agreement.
General lessons
*   During the sub-project identification phase and preparation of work plans of AGETIP
projects, greater attention should be paid to the city's overall infrastructure rehabilitation
needs, and a multiyear program and budget should be developed for approval by the
municipality. Besides ensuring that municipalities meet their counterpart obligations, this
approach would encourage elected officials to conduct a complete inventory of, and then
classify, the city's entire urban infrastructure on the basis of actual rehabilitation
requirements. Estimates of rates of return might then prove more accurate if a group of
projects could be examined together in the context of a coherent strategy.
*   Satisfactory implementation of AGETIP projects require close supervision, especially
during the initial phases of execution, supplemented by strong emphasis on the quality and
adequate coverage of financial and technical audits.
*   Conceming the sustainability of project works municipalities should be required to draw
up plans and budget for maintaining repaired infrastructure. Consideration should be given
to require municipalities to contribute up to three years of maintenance funds up front as a
criteria for project eligibility.
*   With regard to choice of technical options for repairing roads, job creation and maintenance
requirements should receive increased attention. Giving preference to technical solutions
based on paving techniques would be an important step in this direction.



REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ANTANANARIVO URBAN WORKS PROJECT: CREDIT 2591-MAG
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   PROJECT IDENTIFICATION
Name:                 Antananarivo Urban Works Project
Credit Number:        2591-MAG
Credit Amount:        SDR 13.3 million (USD 18.3 million equivalent)
Vice-Presidency:      Africa Region
Country:              Madagascar
Sector:               Infrastructure
Sub-Sector:           Urban Development
B.   INTRODUCTION
I.   During the early 1990s the economy of Madagascar was mired in stagnation.  As studies
unanimously indicated, economic growth and investments were inadequate to bring about the economic
recovery the country wished to achieve. Per capita GDP was clearly on the decline, hovering around US
$230. hi response to this situation, major efforts to spur economic growth were launched focusing on
greater openness, transparency, unfettered competition, private sector development, and public sector
performance.
2.   Shortcomings affecting basic infrastructure in general, and urban infrastructure in particular, were
identified as among the most serious impediments to Madagascar's economic development. The
constraints in the public infrastructure sector, especially those affecting roads, were familiar ones:
insufficient financing, sorely inadequate implementation capacity, and cumbersome administrative
procedures.
3.   These shortcomings caused cumulative delays in the maintenance and rehabilitation of
infrastructure required to sustain a market economy. This situation sparked recognition of the need for a
more effective delivery system. The International Development Association (IDA) shared its experience
with the Malagasy Government regarding the establishment of public works executing agencies. The
creation of such agencies made it possible to increase the absorptive capacity for civil engineering works
in all sectors. This approach was also consistent with the Government's structural adjustment efforts and
its efforts to streamline its own role.
C.   PROJECT OTBJECTWVES
4.   The primary objective of the Antananarivo Urban Works Project was to demonstrate the benefits of
the delegated contract management system as tool for managing and maintaining infrastructure works. It
was also intended to serve as a model for subsequent broader application.
- 1 -



5.   The project had two fundamental development objectives: (i) to restore the infrastructure of
Antananarivo - and particularly its roads - to satisfactory condition rapidly and (ii) to promote the
development of domestic small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in the construction and civil engineering
industry by strengthening their capacity to design, execute, and supervise a wide range of public works
undertakings.
6.   The project's related objectives were to strengthen the management capacity of the municipality,
create jobs by encouraging the use of labor-intensive technologies where economically efficient, and
stimulate growth in the construction industry and in the economy as a whole.
7.   The project was based on the principle of community participation in order to increase the voice of
users and stakeholders in maintenance planning and establish a closer link between the municipality's
actions and the wishes of the public.
D.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION
8.   The project resulted in (i) the creation of an executing agency, Agence d'Ex6cution de Travaux
d 'Infrastructure Publique d 'Antananarivo (AGETIPA); (ii) the execution of sub-projects to improve the
infrastructure in Antananarivo; (iii) the establishment of a training program for SMEs and public
institutions; and (iv) the provision of services to inform the public about the approach of the project and
the work program.
9.   The sub-projects were identified by the municipality and other public agencies and were reviewed
and approved by the executing agency according to clear eligibility criteria. The sub-projects were then
packaged into an annual work program, and focused primarily on urban road repair and rehabilitation of
public areas.
10.  AGETIPA was expected to oversee the contracting of about 25 sub-projects a year costing
approximately US $200,000 each on average. The Agency was to be headed by a General Manager with
broad powers who was recruited from the private sector and whose responsibilities were clearly defined
in the statutes of the Agency. He was to report to a General Assembly comprising representatives of the
water and electricity company, associations of domestic contractors and consultants, road transporters,
and labor unions. User and stakeholder ownership was to be promoted through a participatory approach.
11.  The Government and AGETIPA were to sign a convention under which AGETIPA assumed full
responsibility for (i) reviewing and approving sub-projects proposed for execution; (ii) inviting tenders
from domestic SMEs; (iii) evaluating tenders and awarding contracts (for engineering studies, works, and
supervision); (iv) administering contracts efficiently and in a timely manner; and (v) providing technical
assistance to SMEs and consulting with public institutions: AGETIPA was to perform these operations in
accordance with a detailed Manual of Procedures, acceptable to IDA, including sample bidding
documents. Its activities were monitored on the basis of monthly progress reports and technical and
financial audits conducted by extemal auditors - acceptable to IDA - quarterly during the initial months
and biannually thereafter.
12.  The training program for SMEs covered execution of sub-projects and basic business management.
This program was coordinated with the newly established National Center for Technical and Vocational
Training (CNFTP) and the ongoing Financial Sector and Private Enterprises Development Credit project
(APEX, Credit No. 21040-MAG). Promising consulting firms were trained to become future executing
agencies in their own right with similar responsibilities. The provision of information services consisted
mainly of using the mass media.
-2 -



E.   PROJECT PREPARATION
13.  The idea of a delegated contract management system was first discussed in the early 1990s during
the preparation of the seventh road project (Cr. 1905-MAG). Various Bank experts explained the Bank's
experience in Africa in recent years with the establishment of public works executing agencies to the
Malagasy Government.. IDA proposed to the Government that it introduce and test the system in an
urban works project in Antananarivo and the Government agreed in December 1992. The Bank agreed to
a PPF request to finance project preparation. Project appraisal took place in June 1993. The General
Manager of AGETIPA, deemed acceptable to IDA, was appointed on July 25, 1993. The statutes of
AGETIPA were registered and it was declared a public-interest entity on August 20, 1993.
14.  The municipality of Antananarivo and the Govenmnent identified eight sub-projects to be executed
before project implementation. They were reviewed and approved during a post-appraisal mission in
September 1993. AGETIPA and the Government signed an initial convention, and AGETIPA and the
municipality signed conventions for the contracting of the eight sub-projects. The relevant works were
financed with an advance of US $300,000 (PPF No. 800.0) provided on July 20, 1993. Works were
executed between November 1993 and January 1994. As a result of the satisfactory outcome of these
sub-projects, and given the reconstruction needs in the aftermath of cyclone Geralda, an increase of US
$975,000 to the PPF advance was made for seven additional sub-projects pending credit effectiveness.
While these sub-projects were under way, various technical studies were also undertaken during the
preparation phase (see Table 6).
15.  Negotiations were held in Washington from January 31 -February 5, 1994. The credit of SDR 13.3
million was approved by the Executive Board of the World Bank in March 1994 and signed on April 7,
1994. Credit effectiveness, initially expected in July 1994, was declared on August 1, 1994.
F.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
16.  Project implementation began very rapidly in 1994 and proceeded relatively smoothly. Despite
difficult traffic conditions, inexperienced contractors and delays in mobilizing counterpart funds,
AGETIPA's performance indicators for management and physical results mostly exceeded expectations
throughout project execution (see Table 5). This success was due in part to the speed of implementation
of sub-projects; AGETIPA issued contracts in 7 days on average and paid work orders in a maximum of
10 days. The Agency's overhead costs amounted to only about 5 percent of works executed. AGETIPA
had only 6 professional staff (out of a total of 12 staff) to manage a program costing US $20.5 million for
a total of 874 signed contracts. The total cost of the works was FMG 92 billion (see Table 7A).
Disbursements slightly exceeded appraisal estimates and the credit was fully disbursed on schedule (see
Table 4). However, the speed with which the project was implemented and disbursements were made
appears to have masked a number of problems, particularly with respect to choices of technical options,
packaging of contracts, and compliance with IDA procurement guidelines:
17.  The technical audits complied only partially with the terms of reference set out in the Manual of
Procedures, since these audits focussed essentially on the quality and technical execution of the works.
Limited effort was made to examine the implications of choosing certain technical options and packaging
work contracts on procurement arrangements, as well as to review compliance with IDA procurement
procedures. This led to a number of deficiencies as explained below.
18.  Choice of technical options: Many of the sub-projects focused on resurfacing bitumen-covered
roads with bituminous concrete. This technique was not included in the list of eligible works contained in
the Manual of Procedures. Moreover, it has two drawbacks: it is not labor-intensive and only large firms
- 3 -



can undertake such works. Because of political pressure and since the surface of the major road network
had deteriorated so badly and no alternative options existed, it was inevitable that this technique would
have to be used. This could have been anticipated during project preparation and reflected in the project
design. Moreover, during project execution and supervision, this situation should have been officially
acknowledged and dealt with as necessary, including revising the Manual of Procedures.
19.  Packaging of contracts: Many sub-projects were subdivided into small contracts to an illogical and
inordinate extent. The result was a number of contracts all out of proportion to the number estimated at
preparation (732 instead of 310). The reasons given by AGETIPA were: (i) the need to adapt to the
capacity of the construction enterprises; (ii) the desire to have the maximum possible enterprises working
simultaneously, mainly in order to minimize execution delays (to prevent traffic disruption), but also (iii)
to dispense with IDA procurement prior review "in order to save time." This splitting up of contracts
certainly generated additional administrative costs, and also very likely raised the cost of the works
themselves. Although small enterprises were supposed to have been the beneficiaries of such exercise, it
should be noted that most of the contracts were executed by two large companies with an annual income
in excess of FMG 14 billion. These two firms in fact built works costing FMG 48 billion, or 51.2 percent
of the entire project (see Table 12).
20.  Procurement procedures and Award of contracts: Compliance with procurement procedures was
deficient. The Nanisana road project can be cited as an example. The total cost of this sub-project was
FMG 3.6 billion (US $700,000), for which ICB should have been undertaken instead of LCB. Only two
bids were submitted. According to the Manual of Procedures, since fewer than three bids were received,
re-tendering should have been carried out. This was not done and the contract was awarded nevertheless
to the winning firm. However, the contract was then subdivided into 15 small separate contracts, each of
these smaller contracts averaged FMG 240 million to remain below IDA prior review threshold. In
addition, the Manual of Procedures calls for an automatic prior review by IDA where a tendering process
results in fewer than five bids, or where the successful bidder has not submitted the lowest bid. A review
of the project files suggests that this condition was not met.
21.  The Manual of Procedures provides for eliminating lowest bids on the basis of objective criteria. A
review of the tendering process for the project as a whole shows that 28 different criteria were used to
eliminate the lowest bids. This number is neither realistic nor manageable. Moreover, as the following
table indicates, the number of lowest bids eliminated as the project progressed kept rising:
Year              % of lowest bids rejected
1993                       5%
1994                       6%
1995                       18%
1996                       40%
1997                       53%
22.  This pattem is surprising, to say the least, since one would expect that over time the enterprises
should have grown more familiar with AGETIPA's procedures. The argument that finns were saturated
by an excessive workload defies credibility. In fact, the number of lowest bids rejected between 1996 and
1997 was much higher, despite a noticeable decline in the volume of works during this period.
- 4 -



G. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
23.  Rehabilitation of urban works in Antananarivo. Under the project, 106 km of roads, 111 km of
sidewalks, and 104 km of drains were rehabilitated, 8 km of stairs and alleyways and about 100 retaining
walls were built, and five markets and various public spaces were developed. Sub-project viability was
demonstrated by an internal rate of return of over 20 percent. This assessment was borne out in user
surveys. Besides these substantial physical achievements, a steady improvement in the quality of the
works was observed as the project progressed despite inexperienced SMEs. However, traffic conditions
in Antananarivo still remain difficult because of the increase in motorization.
24.  Job creation and poverty alleviation. Throughout, the project generated 133,000 man-months of
employment in direct jobs. The resulting payroll represented approximately 20 percent of the cost of the
works, or some FMG 18 billion (see Table 12). Many suppliers (including quarry and sandpit operators)
to whom enterprises turned for the works benefited in terms of employment and income. Together with
this multiplier effect, increased mobility of the population also had a positive impact on job creation,
particularly in outlying districts.
25.  Payroll accounted for 20 percent of total costs on average, although the figure varied considerably
depending on the nature of the works and choice of technique. For example:
(a)  Resurfacing with bituminous concrete absorbed 12 percent of the credit but generated only
0.6 percent of the project payroll (labor accounts for only 1 percent of the cost of such
works).
(b)  Street pavin, including supplied paving stones, accounted for 8 percent of project credits
but generated 25 percent of the payroll (in this case labor accounts for 62 per cent of the
cost).
26.  Promotion of consulting firms and private enterprises and stimulation of growth in the public
works sector. The enterprises and consulting firms with which AGETIPA dealt initially were weak.
They lacked professionalism, were notoriously under-equipped and had limited access to banking
services. Training was provided and a considerable effort was undertaken to mobilize SMEs, which had
for so long found it necessary to diversify their activities excessively across various sectors owning to a
paucity of work (prior to 1994). AGETIPA took various steps to enhance their performance, such as
providing targeted training and on-the-job training, encouraging the profession to organize itself, and
fostering the preparation of "Quality Standards" and a work-site manual. Forty training modules were
developed. Some sixty training sessions were organized, attracting 1,111 participants. Nine on-the-job
training modules were also used to provide instruction to 101 professional staff and 57 laborers.
27.  SMEs working for AGETIPA enjoyed the benefits of technological progress, as most of them
became involved in the project at its inception. The CVs of their permanent staff, their references, and
the equipment they owned show that they were active mainly in the construction sub-sector. A set of
"Quality Standards," a list of technical specifications which they drew up together under AGETIPA's
guidance, also had a positive effect. In addition to developing greater technological skills, participating
firms ended up engaging in a natural self-selection process, with the result that the enterprises keenest to
boost their professionalism stood out. Overall, the number of failures among the SMEs which contracted
with AGETIPA was low.
28.  SMEs in the civil works sector in Antananarivo also became better organized. An association was
established during the project and entrepreneurs met periodically under its auspices to share their
experience. There were constructive sessions, as evidenced by the proposals which they forwarded to
-5-



AGETIPA for improving relations among the delegated contract manager, general contractors, and SMEs.
Such initiatives had been umheard of earlier.
29.  With respect to stimulating the growth of the public works sector, the following table shows the
total of SMEs' contracts with AGETIPA as a proportion of their overall business was 20 percent on
average and evolved as follows:
1994                  1995        1         1996                  1997
7%                   23%                   27%                   18%
30.  With regard to promoting consulting firms and enterprises, the following figures indicate that:
* AGETIPA worked with 387 enterprises;
* Bids were invited for 171 studies and works supervision projects;
*. Eighty consulting finns participated in the bidding and 39 were awarded contracts;
* Bids were invited for 700 works contracts;
* One hundred seventy-two firms participated and 105 were awarded contracts.
31.  Overall, many enterprises derived considerable benefit from the AGETIPA project, which was
deemed a sound program that provide them with business opportunities beyond the short term. The
project also enabled SMEs to demonstrate their ability to seize these opportunities and adapt to working
with several contract managers, whether delegated or not. It should be noted that although the project
expanded and stabilized existing SMEs in the sector, it led to the establishment of very few, if any, new
firms.
32.  Strengthening the management capacity of the municipality. Activities were mostly focused on
assisting the municipality in using the services of a contracted out agency as best as possible and geared at
improving the interaction of the municipality with its service users. During project startup, operations
were initially identified by involving district organizations on an individual basis (spontaneously or
otherwise) through surveys, media, campaigns, and direct assistance to neighborhood committees.
AGETIPA then pre-qualified the projects and submitted them to the municipality for review. Final
approval was made by the General Assembly of AGETIPA. The advantage of this method - borne out by
surveys - was that it reflected the situation in the field. There were drawbacks, however, in that
coherence of sub-projects and a global strategic vision proved at times to be elusive goals.
33.  Subsequently, once elected municipal authorities took office, AGETIPA adapted the sub-project
identification process to this new situation. From that point on, the municipality provided AGETIPA
directly with a list of its priorities. AGETIPA then determined the eligibility of each sub-project.
H.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
34.  The major factors affecting project implementation are set out below:
Factors outside the control of the Government and the municipality:
*  The depreciation of Madagascar's currency by half during project implementation hampered
the ability of the Government and the municipality to pay their share of sub-project financing.
This also translated into a quasi absence of funding for maintenance.
*  Antananarivo experienced a very rapid increase in traffic congestion, which seriously hindered
works construction and limited bypass options.
-6 -



Factors within the control of the Government and the municipality:
* The transformation of the transaction tax to a value-added-tax (VAT) and rate variations during
the initial stage of the project complicated financial transactions;
* Cumbersome administrative procedures for raising counterpart funds owed by the Government
and the municipality resulted in delays in approving work programs;
* The lack of funds to maintain rehabilitated works resulted in poor maintenance and still raises
serious concerns as to the sustainability of investments;
* The limited capacity of the municipality to coordinate and supervise works executed by major
utilities such as JIRAMA and TELMA resulted in implementation delays of some sub-projects
and in some instances degradation of works already completed. The absence of representatives
of utilities on AGETIPA's General Assembly may have compounded this problem.
Factors within the control of AGETIPA:
* Very few representatives of civil society served on the Board of Directors, resulting in a smaller
Board than had been expected at project preparation. The Board had only four members, one of
whom was the General Manager of AGETIPA. Little effort was made to broaden
representation at the Board because of the perceived risk of political interference in
AGETIPA's operations, at least initially. Stronger efforts should nevertheless have been made
to include at least representatives of major utilities and civil society.
* Because the city's infrastructure had deteriorated severely and was in need of urgent repair, it
was difficult to carry out very detailed engineering studies. As a result, many changes were
made to the sub-projects in the course of project execution. Managing this situation was
complicated by the fact that the enterprises and consulting firms were not very experienced. It
thus became necessary for AGETIPA officials to get directly involved in project execution, a
situation that placed the Agency in the difficult position of having to serve as both contract
manager and contractor.
I.   PROJECT SUSTAiNABILrrY
35.  Sustainability of the works. This will depend primarily on the municipality's capacity to keep up
with maintenance requirements. In the absence of adequate financial resources, this is uncertain at
present. Improved resource mobilization on the part of the municipality and the establishment of a Road
Maintenance Fund under a proposed IDA financed Transport APL in FYOO remain critical. If this is
achieved, AGETIPA definitely should play an important role as the municipality's delegated contract
manager for maintenance works.
36.  Sustainability of the delegated contract management system. After initial reluctance, a number of
Malagasy institutions have now recognized the benefits and usefulness of the system. Several ministerial
departments (Public Works, Regional and Urban Development) and AGETIPA are involved in preparing
legislation concerning delegated contract management. A draft of the proposed legislation is expected to
be submitted to the National Assembly in 1999.
37. Sustainability of AGETIPA. AGETIPA demonstrated its usefulness and efficiency. This success
was not lost on the elected mayors of Madagascar's large cities. Their requests for government assistance
- 7 -



have prompted the Government to seek IDA support to extend the system to the country's major cities. In
early 1997, an amendment to Credit No. 2591 -MAG was made authorizing the financing of sub-projects
in five other cities. At the same time, a new IDA credit (Cr. No. 2968-MAG), which was prepared in
1996 and became effective in 1997, calls for the extension of the delegated contract management system
under AGETIPA's auspices to these five cities.
38. Thus far, IDA is the sole donor financing AGETIPA operations. If AGETIPA is to prove
sustainable, it is crucial that it secures additional funding not only from other donors but also from local
sources (e.g. Road Maintenance Fund). To this end, AGETIPA needs to project an image other than a
provider of infrastructure and publicize the social and economic benefits derived from its activities. It
should also ensure broader representativity on its Board. As an autonomous institution, AGETIPA also
needs to set aside sufficient resources to meet cash requirements from administrative expenses arising
from temporary but recurrent declines in its level of activities.
J.   IDA PERFORMANCE
39.  IDA played a key role during project identification and preparation and was successful in winning
the support of the Malagasy authorities for the delegated contract management system. The appraisal
mission went very smoothly, paving the way for rapid implementation. IDA performance during these
phases of project processing was highly satisfactory. During project execution, IDA supervised the
project by sending two to three missions annually (see Table 10). It also relied on the work undertaken by
technical assistance missions financed by FAC. All these missions focused primarily on the progress and
quality of works, and on training aspects. However, as mentioned in paras. 17-22, there were some
important issues which emerged during implementation concerning the coverage of technical audits,
choices of technical options, packaging of contracts and compliance with procurement procedures. IDA
performance in addressing these issues and taking corrective measures during supervision is deemed
unsatisfactory.
K. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
40.  Government performance.  The Government made a significant contribution during project
formulation and the final phase. It did its utmost to meet all the conditions for project effectiveness
expeditiously. However, there were recurrent delays in raising its financial contribution, and continuity in
decision-making was also somewhat hampered by the frequent turnover of Ministers.
41.  Performance of the municipality. The municipality required and received assistance to identify
sub-projects and establish priorities. Its ability to maintain rehabilitated works was and remains
inadequate mainly because of lack of financial resources. An effort is currently under way to streamline
and improve the resource mobilization process, including revised procedures for assessing the tax base
and collecting taxes under the Antananarivo Urban Works Project (Credit No. 2117-MAG) and with
technical support to the municipality from the French Cooperation Fund (FAC). Further efforts and
assistance are nevertheless still needed to improve urban infrastructure management at the municipal
level.
42. Performance ofAGETIPA. Overall, AGETIPA performed well and achieved the major objectives
assigned to it.
* The level of infrastructure service provided in the Antananarivo Urban Area was substantially
improved through the rehabilitation of a significant segment of the infrastructure (including
- 8 -



roads, sidewalks, sanitation, alleyways, and stairways). However, because of the substantial
infrastructure backlog which accumulated for the last twenty years and the rapid increase in
motorization during project execution, traffic conditions still remain difficult despite these
achievements.
*  Support for SMEs (enterprises and consultants) is now well-established. Their professionalism
was gradually enhanced by providing many opportunities for staff training and by actively
involving AGETIPA staff in the preparation of studies and execution of works.
* A communication system is in place to keep users informed on a regular basis. The project's
socioeconomic and enviromnental impact was assessed periodically through user surveys,
leading to improvements in project execution with a view to meeting the public's expectations
more effectively.
* After initial reluctance from Government officials, the delegated contract management system
has been put to the test and has now won the support of many local officials.
* Sub-project design and the quality of works have gradually been improved through periodic
technical assistance missions.
* Adequate financial management systems were put in place and financial audits were prepared
and submitted to IDA on time. IDA had, however, to inform the auditors that there were
several issues which were not sufficiently covered in their reports such as internal control and
adequacy of expenses in relation to contracts awarded.
L.   PROJECT OUTCOME
43.  The project has achieved the objectives intended at appraisal and its results are considered
satisfactory. By demonstrating the benefits of using contracted out services, AGETIPA has proven it is
an effective instrument for assisting municipalities in infrastructure rehabilitation, promoting SMEs in
the public works sector and creating jobs. After initial reluctance from Government officials, the
delegated contract management system has now won the support of many local officials. IDA has
financed a second project covering five secondary cities (Credit 2968-MAG) whose implementation is
now picking up after an initial slow start.
44.  While physical results achieved during the project are substantial, the sustainability of rehabilitated
works is uncertain in the absence of sufficient resources for maintenance. The longer term sustainability
of the delegated contract management system and of AGETIPA greatly depends on mobilizing additional
resources not only from external donors other than IDA but also from domestic sources, in particular
through the establishment of the Road Maintenance Fund.
M. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
45.  Key lessons learned from this project can be divided in two main categories: those specific to this
operation and AGETIPA itself, and those of a general nature which can apply to other similar AGETIP
operations.
Project related lessons
* On the institutional front, it is necessary to expand the General Assembly of AGETIPA to
reflect the composition envisaged in the appraisal report (including, for example, mayors,
major utilities, and industry representatives). Steps have now been taken under the urban
-9-



infrastructure project (Credit No. 2968-MAG) to ensure a broader representation at the
Board.
*   With regard to financial matters, and in the interest of ensuring the sustainability of
AGETIPA, it is essential that it accesses additional financial resources needed to carry out
its activities from other donors and local sources (e.g. the Road Maintenance Fund).
AGETIPA should also set aside sufficient resources to meet cash requirements from
administrative expenses arising from temporary but recurrent declines in its level of
activities.
*   Regarding the packaging of contracts, there should be a gradual shift towards larger
contracts. This would reduce administrative costs and have a positive impact on the
development of small enterprises.
*   With respect to procurement, IDA shall ensure that technical audits systematically include
a review of contracts and an analysis of compliance with procurement procedures set forth in
the Manual of Procedures and the Credit Agreement.
General lessons
*   During the sub-project identification phase andpreparation of work plans of AGETIP
projects, greater attention should be paid to the city's overall infrastructure rehabilitation
needs, and a multiyear program and budget should be developed for approval by the
municipality. Besides ensuring that municipalities meet their counterpart obligations, this
approach would encourage elected officials to conduct a complete inventory of, and then
classify, the city's entire urban infrastructure on the basis of actual rehabilitation
requirements. Estimates of rates of return might then prove more accurate if a group of
projects could be examined together in the context of a coherent strategy.
   Satisfactory implementation of AGETIP projects require close supervision, especially
during the initial phases of execution, supplemented by strong emphasis on the quality and
adequate coverage of financial and technical audits.
-   Concerning the sustainability of project works municipalities should be required to draw
up plans and budget for maintaining repaired infrastructure. Consideration should be given
to require municipalities to contribute up to three years of maintenance funds up front as a
criteria for project eligibility.
*   With regard to choice of technical options for repairing roads, job creation and maintenance
requirements should receive increased attention. Giving preference to technical solutions
based on paving techniques would be an important step in this direction.
- 10 -



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:        Summary of Assessments
Table 2:        Related IDA Loans/Credits
Table 3:        Project Timetable
Table 4:        Credit Disbursements
Table 5:       Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:        Studies Included in the Project
Table 7A:       Project Costs
Table 7B:       Project Financing
Table 7C:       Credit Allocation per Category
Table 8:        Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:        Bank Resources : Staff Inputs
Table 10:       Bank Resources : Missions
Table 11:       Contracts Distribution per Size of Enterprises
Table 12:       Estimated Wages According to Types of Works



REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ANTANANARIVO URBAN WORKS PROJECT
[Credit 2591-MAG]
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: TABLES
Table 1 - Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Project Objectives       Substantial        Partial        Negible         Not Applicable
Macro Policies
Sector Policies                            =
Financial Objectives
Institutional development                                                                    _
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction                          /
Gender concems                                                                               .1
Other social objectives                                      I
Environmental objectives
Public sector management
Private sector management
Private sector development
Others                                     _
B. Project sustainability                     Likely                   Unlikely               Uncertain
(1/)                      (1)                     (a/)
Short and medium term
Long term                                  H                         H                       H
C. Bank Performance                           Highly
Satisfactory              Satisfactory            Deficient
(1)                       (1)                     (1)
Identification
Preparation                                [y*_
Appraisal                                  Lu
Supervision
D. Borrower Performance                       Highly
Satisfacto                Satisfactory            Deficient
(I)                        (I)                     (I)
Preparation
Implementation                             [                                                  _
Covenant Compliance
Operation                       S a                                                           _
E. Assessment of Outcome              Highly                                                       Highly
Satisfactory      Satisfactory        Unsatisfactory       Unsatisfactory
V )                (V) 12 -
- 12-



Table 2 - Related IDA Loans/Credits
Peeigoperations
Antananarivo Plain        The main objectives are to: (I ) provide a  May 1990         Ongoing
Development Project (Cr.   100-year flood protection to the suburbs
2117-MAG)                 of Antananarivo, (2) rehabilitate and
expand the drainage and sanitation
facilities in the plain, (3) rehabilitate the
irrigation system of the Ikopa Right Bank
(3000 ha), (4) improve the performance of
local government's revenues at the
regional level, (5) establish an
economically viable urbanization program
and, (6) strengthen the institutional
framework for integrated and controlled
development of the plainL
Following operations
Urban hifrastructure      (i) Improve the provision and maintenance   October 1997     Ongoing
Project (Cr. 2968-MAG)    of urban infrastructure, (ii) Increase
income and employment for the poor, (iii)
Efficient system for delegated project
management developed in six regions, (iv)
Small construction enterprises and
consulting fimns developed, (v) Project
management enhanced, (vi) Improved
municipal investment prioritization
Table 3 - Project Timetable
|Identification (Executive Project          December 1992                      December 1992
lSummary)
Preparation                                  March 1993                         March 1993
Appraisal                                     June 1993                          July 1993
Negotiations                                February 1994               January 31 -February 3, 1994
Board presentation                           March 1994                       March29, 1994
Signing                                   March -April 1994                    April 7, 1994
Effectiveness                                 June 1994                       August 1, 1994
Midterm Review                                June 1995                         June 1996
Completion                                  June 30,1998                       June 30, 1998
Project Closing Date                      December 31, 1998                 December 31, 1998
Source: Project files and Bank staff estimates.
- 13 -



Table 4 - Credit Disbursements
(millions of SDR)
Appraisal Estimates                         0,93       2,40      4,76      3,80       1,39
Actual Disbursement                         0,87       2,46      5,58      4,29       0,96
Actual as Percentage of Estimates (in %)    93,5%      102%      117%       112,9%    69%
Appraisal Estimates Cumulative              0,93       3,33      8,09      11,89      13,30
Actual Cumulative Disbursements             0,87      2,46       8,04      12,33      13,29
Actual as Percentage of Estirates Cumulative  93,5%   73,8%      99%       104%       99,9%
The last disbursement of SDR 7,165.90 (equivalent to US$ 9,505.50) was made on August 31, 1998.
- 14 -



Table 5 - Key indicators for Project Performance
No. of delegated management         Estimates                           20                  25                 24
contracts                           Actual                              12                  7                   3
Actual as % of estimates                 60%                 28%               12,5%
Corresponding cumulated amounts    Estimates                            4,8                6,0                 5,8
(US$ million)                       Actual                              7,3                7,9                 2,6
Actual as % of estimates                152%                132%                45%
No. of sub-projects in progress     Estimates                           20                  25                 24
Actual                             102                 70                  12
Actual as % of estimates                510%                280%                 50%
No. of contracts signed             Estimates                           90                 110                 110
(design/supervision/works)          Actual                              320                278                 134
Actual as % of estimates                356%                258%                122%
No. of contracts completed          Estimates                           70                 180                 290
(cumulated)                         Actual                              121                282                 126
Actual as % of estimates                173%                157%                48%
Average costs of Sub-projects       Esimates                          240 000            240 000             240 000
Actual                            71 195             16 805              8 000
Actual as % of estimates                 30%                  7%                  3%
Percentage of contracts completed    Estimates                         80%                 90%                 90%
in time                             Actual                             67%                 67%                 78%
Actual as % of estimates                 84%                 74%                 87%
Percentage of contracts completed    Estimates                          80%                90%                 90%
on budget                           Actual                             90%                 76%                61%
Actual as % of estimates               112,5%                84%                68%
No. of medium enterprises promoted  Estimates                            0                  4                   4
Actual                              0                   0                  0
Actual as % of estimates                  0%                  0%                  0%
No. of Small enterprises promoted    Estimates                           0                  6                   6
Actual                              0                   0                  0
Actual as % of estimates                  0%                  0%                  0%
No. of Small enterprises created    Estimates                            0                  24                 22
Actual                              0                   0                  0
Actual as % of estimates                  0%                  0%                  0%
No. of man-months of employment   Estimates                            19 000             26 000             23 000
created                             Actual                            24 500              68 500             36 000                           I
Actual as % of estimates                128%                263%               157%
Average time for processing         Estimates                           30j                21j                 15j
contracts (calendar days)           Actual                              7j                  7j                 7j
- 15 -



% of payments within 30 days of     Estimates                         90%                 95%                95%
invoice receipt                     Actual                            100%               100%                100%
Actual as % of estimates                111%               105%                105%
Prorated fee of AGETIPA (% of       Estimates                          6%                 6%                 6%
operating costs / design /          Actual                            5,5%               3,1%                4%
supervision and works)
- 16 -



Table 6- Studies Included in the Project
1.    Amhohijatovo Park, October     Feasibility study for        Completed           Project executed during pilot
1993                           rehabilitation and landscaping                  phase
2.    Drainage pattern of the upper   Feasibility for project      Completed          Sub-projects executed
Antananarivo                   financing
3.    Traffic Study of Antananarivo  Assessment of traffic patterns   Completed       Identification of priority sub-
and key bottlenecks                             projects
4.    Output and efficiency of        Feasibility of using paving  Completed          Development of small
production of paving stones in the  technique for road and                      enterprises for stone cutting
Antananarivo area              sidewalk repairs
5.    Environmental assessment of a   Assess environmental impact    Completed        Results incorporated in sub-
sample of representative sub-  and measures to be taken                        project design
projects.
6.    Economic rate of return of a   Assess eligibility of sub-    Completed          Identification of eligible sub-
sample of representative sub-  projects                                        projects
projects.
7.    Accounting system and          Assess requirements for       Completed          MIS implernented
procedures of AGETIPA          adequate MIS
8.    Design and provision of training    Strengthen capacity of SMEs   Completed     Training modules developed
services                       and consulting firms                             and training sessions delivered
9.    Urban road design standards     Examine alternative technical   Completed       Input to the establishment of a
designs                                         quality standard list
10.   Classification criteria of SMEs  Assess capacity of SMEs to  Completed          Classification list established
undertake various types of
works
11.   Definition of tests to be used for   Identify criteria for quality  Completed   Improved supervision of works
the acceptance of works        control
12.   Software needs for AGETIPA      Improve AGETIPA's            Completed          Computerization of AGETIPA
operations
13.   Format for technical audits     Define content of technical  Completed          Only partly implemented.
audits
14.   Assessment of the social impact    Obtain feedback from      Completed          Improved communication with
of the project                 beneficiaries on project design                  local population and execution
and execution                                   of sub-projects facilitated
15.   Workshops on quality standards    Disseminate quality standard    Completed     Greater awareness of SMEs
list                                            and consulting firms on quality
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I requirements
16.   Study on establishment of a     Facilitate acquisition of    Completed          Study completed but not
leasing company                equipment by SMEs                                implemented
- 17 -



Table 7A - Project Costs
1. Investmnent Costs.l
A. Civil works                   H)A/Mdgscr          15 320,0         16 770,0           110%
B. Goods
Local Goods                   IDA/Mdgscr              45,0             10,0            22%
Imported Goods                IDA/Mdgscr               5,0
C. Consultancy Services
Local Consultants             IDA/Mdgscr           1 660,0            580,0            35%
Local and Foreign Consultants   IDA/Mdgscr           440,0
Foreign Consultants           IDA/Mdgscr/            550,0             60,0            11%
FAC                                                           l
Total Investment Costs                               18 020,0         17 420,0           96%
II Recurrent Costs
A. AGETIPA Operating Costs       LDA/Mdgscr            960,0           1 010,0           105%
B. Operating Costs under PPF     IDAlMdgscr            230,0              30,0            13%
C. Technical and Financial Audits   IDA/Mdgscr         270,0             110,0           41%
D. Monitoring of Social Impact   IDA/Mdgscr            200,0             110,0            55%
E. Monitoring of Environment     IDA/Mdgscr             20,0              10,0            50%
Impact
Total Recurrent Costs                                 1 490,0          1 270,0           85%
Unallocated                                            350,0
Total Costs                                             20 050,0         18 690,0            93%
- 18 -



Table 7B - Project Financing
Appraisal    % of Total       Actual        % of Total
IDA Credit            18 270          91 %          18 698          77 %            102 %
MAT                      805           4 %           4 880          21%            600 %
Municipality             805           4%              375           1%              46 %
FAC                      170           1%              170           i%             100%
TOTAL                  20 050        100 %         24123      I   100 %           120        ]
l The Actual amount in US $ reflects the shaip depreciation of the Malagasy Franc.
- 19 -



Table 7C - Credit Allocation per Category
(in SDR)
I. CiilWok                           9 640 000         10 354 092
2. Design and Supervision of Civil     770 000            498 900 |
Worksl
3. Executing Agency Operating          720 000            707 923
Costs
4. Equipment and Furmiture for          10 000              8 924
public insitutions involved.
5. Consulting Services                1 230 000           823 682
6. PPF refinancing                     930 000            905 678
TOTAL                               13300000           13299199
- 20 -



Table 8 - Status of Legal Covenants
2.02 (b)        I         C          October   The Borrower shall openi and maintain in dollarsl
l                             ~~~~~~~~~~~1993   a special deposit account in a commercial bank.
3.01 (a)        5         C                    The Borrower shall cause AGETIPA to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement.
3.01 (b)        5         C         09/30/95   The Borrower and the Association shall      Midterm review
annex 3                                        undertake a midterm review of the Project.  undertook in June
1996
3.01 (c)       5          C       02/01/1994    The Borrower shall conclude an agreernentwith   Condition for
AGETIPA.                                    effectiveness
5.01 (a)        3         C        May 1994   AGETIPA has submitted to the Association an    Condition for
initial program of selected sub-projects to be  effectiveness
implemented during the first year of the project
implementation period.
5.01 (b)       3          C        May 1994   A project account has been duly opened.      Condition for
effectiveness
5.01 (c)       3          C        May 1994   The auditors have been duly recruited.       Condition for
effectiveness
2.05 (a)        5         C                    AGETIIPA shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the
Association with regard to the progress of the
project.
3.01 (b)       5          C                    AGETIPA shall ensure that the position of   New Director
Director General shall be kept filled at all times.  General nominated
on August 10,
1998.
4.01 (b) (i)    I         C                    AGETIPA shall have its records audited on a  Audits prepared on
quarterly basis during the first six months  time.
following the effective date and semiannually
thereafter.
4.01 (b)        I         C       09/30/1994   AGETiPA shall furnishto the Association not    Audits submnitted
(ii)                                           later than three months after the end of each  on time. IDA
quarterly audit period: certified copies of its  commented on
financial statements and the report of such audit.  quality of audits
Annex 2-1       5         C       01/12/1995   AGETIPA shall submit to the Association its
proposed program of selected sub-projects for
the second, third and fourth years of the project
implementation period.
Annex 2-2       9         C      Each Month   AGETIPA shall submit monthly reports on the
progress of the Project to the Association.
- 21 -



Covenant Type                                                              Present Status
I   Accounts/Audits                                                      C      Complied with
2    Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries           CD      Compliance after delay
3   Flow and utilization of Project funds                                CP      Complied with partially
4    Counterpart funding                                                 NC    Not complied with
5   Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6    Environmental covenants
7    Involuntary resettlement
8    Indigenous people
9    Monitoring, review and reporting
1 0   Implementation
11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12   Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
1 3 Other
-22 -



Table 9 - Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (in weeks and US$ '000)
Preparation toAppraisal                                 24.7               50.5l
Appraisal                                               49.3              104.3
Negotiations through Board Approval                     21.4               48.4
S-upervision                                           107.1              223.2.
Completion                                              10.5               35.5
TOTAL                                                  213.0  _461.9
-23 -



Table 10 - Bank Resources: Missions
2                              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Identification
Preparation                 93
Appraisal                 06/93            3             16        EN, C, C
Post-appraisal            11/93            2             10        EN, IN
Negotiations              03/94            7                       EN, L, DS, DS, FA, A, EC
Supervision 1             04/94            4             10        EN, FA, A, C                         I
Supervision 2             07/94            3             10        EN, A, C                            HS                HS
Supervision 3             11/94           4              20        EN, A, C, OA                        HS                HS                               l
Supervision 4             02/95            2             10        EN, A                               HS                 HS                  AF
Supervision 5             05/95           4              18        EN, A, C, C                         HS                 S                   AF
Supervision 6             11/95            3             16        EN, A, ?                            HS                 S
Supervision 7             01/96           2              15        EN, A                               HS                HS                AF, MA
Supervision 8             06/96            5             4         EN, FA, A, EN, C                     S                 S                   AF
Supervision 9             01/97           2              7         EN, EC                              HS                HS                AF, AM
Supervision 10            10/97            3             14        EN, EC, FA                          HS                 S                   AF
Supervision 11            05/98           2              7         EC, EN                               S                 S
Completion                10/98            2             14        EC, EN                               S                 S
Staff Skills                            Performance Ratings            Types of Problems
AR - Architect                          I - Minor or No Problems       AF: Availability of Funds
EC - Economist                          2 - Moderate Problems          CC: Compliance with Legal Covenants
EN - Engineer                           3 - Major Problems             FP: Financial Performance
Env - Environmentalist                  S Satisfactory                 PDO: Project Development Objectives
FA - Financial Analyst                 U Unsatisfactory                PMP: Project Management Performance
L - Lawyer                              HU Highly Unsatisfactory       PP: Procurement Progress
C - Consultant                                                         PS: Progress of Studies
DS  Disbursement Specialist                                            TA: Technical Assistance Progress
TTL..Task Team Leader                                                  MA: Maintenance of Works
SM - Sector Manager
U - Urbanist
A -- Assistant
OA - Operations Analyst
- 24 -



Table 11 - Contracts Distribution per Size of Enterprises
:3                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
No. of enterprises                                                  2              2%
No. of contracts                                                 193              28%
Contracts amounts                                      48.047.705.425              51%
Average contract amount                                      248.951.842
Average tumover per enterprises                                2.402.852 763
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
No. of enterp rises                                                 4               41 
No. of contracts                                                  S0               7%
Contracts amounts                                        5.232.323.763              6%
Average contract amor nt                                     104.646.475
Average turnover per enterprises                               1.308.080.941
No. of enterprises                                                 18 0
No. of contracts                                                 189              272
Contracts amounts                                       20.697.603.984             22%_l
Average contract amount                                      109.511.132
Average tumover per enterprises                                18149.866.888
-No. of entcrprises                                                81                 /o
F         ~~~No. of contracts                                               260              38%
Contracts amoimts                                       19 .794.382.513            21%
|      ~~Average contract amount                                      76.132.240
Avffage t lmover per enterprises                                   244.375.093
No of enterpnrses                                                 105
l        ~~~No. OF CONTRACTS                                                692
l       ~~~Contracts Amo-unts                                     93.772.015.685l
Average Contract                                           135.508.693
l  Average turnover per enterpirises                                 893.066.816l
- 25 -



Table 12 - Estimated wages according to types of works
Roads
Prelimninary works         4.881.244.641                 5,2%            190.368.541                 1,1%                  3,9%    I
Street paving              1,947.052.413                2,1%           1.125.396.295                 6,4%                 57,8%
Street paving              1.543.965.542                 1,6%            208.435.348                 1,2%                 13,5%
rehabilitation
Resurfacing with
bituminous concrete       11.328.534.858                12,1%            113.285.349                 0,6%                  1,0%
Two layers resurfacing       146.353.458                0,2%               7.829.910                 0,0%                  6,3%
Urban works               23.772.319.625                25,4%          3.565.847.944                30,3%                 15,0%
rehabilitation
Spot improvement works     1.208.686.816                 1,3%           223.607.051                  1,3%                 18,5%
Paving blocks jointing       133.487.597                0,1%              63.406.609                 0,4%                 47,5%
Shoulders rehabilitation     603.849.625                0,6%             152.170.106                0,9%                  25,2%
Bridge works                 798.861.763                0,8%             219.581.570                 1,2%                 27,8%
46.355.356.338              49,4%           5.869.928.723               33,4%                  12,7%
Sidewalks
Bitmino-us                 6.108.896.271                 6,5%            927.330.454                 5,3%                 15,2%
Slabs                        859.846.875                0,9%            288.220.673                  1,6%                33,5%
TOTAL                      6.968.743.146                7,4%           1.215.551.127                6,9%                 17 4%
Sanitation
Gutters and drains        21.056.857.648               22,5%           5.026.271.921               28,6%                 23,9%
TOTAL                     21.056.857.648               22,5%           5.026.271.921               28,6%                 23,9%
Retaining walls
16                                         -   I11       . i ~ ..  T-11".... A.           .
Masory walls               3.220.426.501                3,4%             390.637.735                2,2% _121%
TOTAL                      3.220.426.501                3,4%            390.637.735                 2,2%                 12,1%
- 26 -



Goods
Crushed stones               2.710.421.300                 2,9%                .104.213                   0,2%                   1,0%
Paving stones                5.262.947.052                  5,6%           3.341.971.378                 19 0%                  63,5%
Manufactured concrete        2.644.822.964                  2,8%            793.446.889                   4,5%                  30,0%     l
TOTAL                       10.618.191.316                1153%            4.162.522.480                23,7%                   39,2%
Pn eets                        720.765.667                078%                96.869.696                  0,6%                   13,4%
Markets                       707.142.926                   0,8%            230.811.451                   1,3%                  32,6%
|Fence                         569.036.909                  0,6%              38.182.377                  0,2%                    6,7%
|Sta-irs                      2.385.316.401                 2,5%             367.100.194                   2,1%                  15,4%
Road cleanilng                 104.506.340                  0,1%              12.540.761                  0,1%                  12,0%
Horizontal signage            510.416.442                  0,5%             125.052.028                  0,7%                   24,5%
Vertical signage              555.265.054                   0,6%              54.415.975                  0,3%                   9,8%    D
TOTAL                        5.552.449.73688              519%            18924972.482                  513%                    16,7%
Summary
Paving stones supply         7.209.999.465                 7,7%            4.467.367.673                 25,4%                  62,0%
and lay_
TOTAL            m93.772.024.688                           100%           17.589.884.468                 100%                   18,8%
- 27 -






Annex 1
Borrower comments on the ICR
29



SCANNED] FILE COPY~
4ecess.o~r   Ntr.).,  -T'gAJmrc
isiE   d:>  i's ;;  nl' 2  ':  .'r G; T.i: gU H   Adm Prg   j
.______________________________________       Antananarivo  Ic 14  fevricr 1999
A lattention dc:
0ol
Messieurs Michael SARRIS &. Arnaud GUINARD
BANQUE MONDIALF,
WASRINGTON DC
Dc ia part de
Mamy RAJAOBELINA
AGETIPA
ANTANANARIVO 101
Objet: Rapport dtachNvement proje.t 2591 Mag
Messieurs,
En compl6ment A notre fax du 6 fevrier 1999 vous dornmant nos premiWres impressions sur le
pirojet de rapport d'achevement du 2591 mag, nous vous prions de lire ci-apr6s des 6l6ments
de coimmentaires etablis avec l'6quipe de 1'agetice.
Promotion des JME et IBE
Le prqjet a 6galenetit. favoris6 un diargisseinent des comp6tences des PME et BE dans le
doinaine du g6nie civil . En effct , au vu des fiches de renseignements de nombreux BE et
PME, le bhtiment 6tait suparAvant auparavant leur sous secteur d'intervention habituel.
FRacteurs ayant Cu tine incidence suAr Ic projet
Du cote de l'crnprunteur, sept gouvernements se sont sucods durant la p6riode dex&cution
du proict. Du cot6 du bailleur, trois task managers se sont cgaletnent relay6s sur le projet.
Le probllme n'6tait pas ]es changements d'bonimes d'un cot6 comme de I'autre. En revanche,
In principale pr6ocvupation 6tait de s'assurer que "I'esprit et la m6thode Agetip" 6taient bien
compris des divers partenaires qui avaient dans oertains cas des visions differentes dans la
hidrarchisation des objectifa.
Conseil d'adiuini6istation et Assenlbl6e g6niralc
Agetipa est depuis son origine une association reconnue d'utilit publique, dirig6e par une
assemb1ie g6n6rale des rneinbres (et non uW conseil d'admiinistration) et une direction g6n6rale
des op6rations. L.a structuie actuelle de I'Agetipa , la rdparlition des responsabilit6s de lAG ct
du DO ainsi que la composition de son assemnbie g6n6rale ont regu l'approbation de FIDA au
momenit de la misc cn vigucur du ci Wdit 2591 mag.
l1e noni changeinent de la composition de l'assembl6e g6ndrale n'a pas eu d'incidence
sp6cifique sur le d6roulement du projet. En particulier, Ia pr6sence des concessionnaires
commne membres de I'Agetipa, n'etait pas des conditions suffisantes pour s'assurer une r6ellc
coordination des activites des uns et des autres. Les travaux de la Jirama rentraient dans le
30



cadic dcs interventions d'urgonee (impossibles A programmer). Par ailleurs, le financeinent et
-  -.  -  -  1~  ~      ~   .  -       1,  - -.A4A     A. -  ,                              ___________
souples pour etre inodifids ci cours de route.
Agetipa appartient au rdseau Africatip. Des renseignements obtenus des ditT-renites agences
eparpillees en Afrique de l'Ouest nous ont permis d'apprendre que les compositions des inos
assembl6es gdndrales rcspectives avaient un  profil et une  importance quanltitative
comparables. En Afrique (le l'Ouest comme A Madagascar, les resultats des divers projets
Agetip etaient globalement positifs. 11 est donc peu cr6dible d'affirmter que le succ6s du projet
est Ii6c A la composition des membres de l'assemlbl6e g6n6rale. Agetipa 2591 mag en est la
preuve concrete.
La geslion du projet dans un contexte doe hangrnents fr6quents de ministies imilitait pour une
certa.ine protection du projet. De plus I'esprit de la maitrise d'ouvrage d6legu6e indiquait
clairenent le d6sengagernent de l'Ltat des activit6s en r6gie directe. 11 etait par cons6quent
impelisabic do retrouvcr une autre forme de presence de l'Ptat au sein de l'agence , A travers
les concessionnaires societes dEtat ou des repr6sentants de minist,res.
L]autonomie de l'Agence est Utie condition non n6gociable du bon deroulement du projet.
l'IDA se positionne d'aillcurs en premier defenseur de cette aut:onomie, principale force des
Agetips. En effet, Agetipa n'est pas unic socidtd o6 l'Etat ddtient une part des capitaux
ndcessitant par IA iiie repr6sentatioh de I'actionnaire en son sein. Agetipa est un prestataire de
service rdmun&r6 en qualit6 de inattre d'ouvrage d6l6gu6. Ie contr8le des activites d'Agetipa
noe se fait pas en assembl6c g6ndralc mais plut8t A travers les audits tecliniques et financiers.
Choix techniques et phasages des travaux
d.4 C     c:.%*; . . rnO.I OimJ;v eiot, 040i.. J";I\     @
gestion des travaux. De meme, la connaissance des objectifs ot la prise en compto des facteurs
de succ6s dui projet ont 6te A l'origine de l'itablissexinit (le la rationalite des ddcoupages et des
phlasages dti projlt.
Ne pas appliquer le systemc de phasage aurait abouti a:
-  L'6limination des PMF3 locales du projet
-  La limitation des cntrcprises adimises A soumissionner au nombre de cinq au maximum
-  Lc maintien du systWre de la ,ous-traitance des travaux non rentables par les grandes
entrepriscs aupr6s des PMF.
-  1a mise en cause du systeme de consultation moins selective
-  La limitation du nomlbre d'cmplois cr6es car le systmoe I-lIMO est contraire au principe de
rentabilite adoptbe par les entreprises de grande taille.
Sur un autre point de vue, le rapport affirme quo le phasage des travaux ont contribu6 A
augineier lcs coOts. Les divers rapports du baillcur au moment de la revue A ini-palcours eo
particulier indiquent le contraire. La fonnule Agetip en g6n6ral, a ddmontr6 qu'il etait possible
d'abaisser substanciellenient les coOts des operations A Madagascar,
Passation des march&s
L'attribution d'un march6 sur la basc de deux offros revues n'ost pas on contradiction avec le
manuel de procAdure appliqud dans le cadre du 2591 inag. Rn effet, les criteres repris par le
rapport d'ach6vement sont ccux du projet. 2968 mag.
31



3
l,limination des offres moins disantes A partir d'use grille de 28 critkres (approuv6s par
l'1I)A) a permnis de:
- r6duire en 1997 le taux des marches ex6cut6s avec d&passemuent des d6lais
-  r6duire les genes occasionn6s par les travaux cn milieu urbain. ll dtait eo) effet
itiicpe.n-hhlt (Ant Jm rlA(ire. (  ldi  dirn dimnl Iiii projeot d( "Ian1ler All T ieix aux r:Al  dii
terrain". I a croissance ullra rapide diu nombre de v6hicules en circulation A Anitananarivo
ne permettait pas de trop tarder sur un chantier on centre ville. Unc offre pour travauix de
jour et cle nuil est obligatoireinent plus couteuse qu'une offre classigue pour travaux de
jour uniquement.
Moraliser le secteur HTV  habituW A l'octr0i sysltdalique el abusif d'avenanits pour revision
en hausse du delai d'ex&cution.
Le ph6noni6ne de saturation des eitfeprises dvoqud comme un des motifs d'61imination des
s;;   ntn4nc.^>;s A;c.an4r.o Acn... .A, 4ir.nt e,,  "-vir  ,.N. chw;r A,. 1+c An *raw,nlw  1.ai-et
simultannment, une entreprise soumissionne avee  iiva5lenienl les memes ressources
finanoci&res, mat6rielles, techniques, humaines ei logistiques sans tenir compte de l'impact de
i'attribntiotn sirnultan&e  de plusieurs lots sur ses capacitts efiTctives. En rdalfit, faute de
pouvoir prejuger du nomnbre lots qui lui seraient attribu6, 1'entreprise soumissionne A toutes les
offres dont I'importancc des travaux est comparable. IJne fois de plus, 1'exp6rience du terrain a
penis de niieux conna?tre le comporlement des entreprises une fois les travaux effectiveme,fl
cn cours.
Des oilfres inoiis disantes oit W 61imin6es car certaines entreprises souinissionnaienlt sur des
lots appartonaunt A une catdgorie sup6ricure de travaux sur laquelle elles sonl agrees. D'ailleurs
1cxamcn d6tailld des prix a mis cn 6vidence des offres fantaisistes ou ufle ineconnaissance
technique des travaux demand6s.
Performance de l'emprunteur sur le respect des clauses
A proipx)s de la mnise A disposition des fonids TTL, loites les arri6rds de TVA ont 6td r6pgl6es
par J'Etat A la date de cloture du projet 2591.
(Conclusion
Dc tout cc qui pr&c&do, nous estimiiiois que 1 appr6ciation "Ires satisfaisanti" doit etre alUribu6e
aussi bien A la supervision qu'A 1'emprunteur.
Nous restons A votre disposition pour 1outes prdcisions utiles. Dans I'attente de la venue de la
prochaine nission de supervisionI entre le 1cr et le 16 Mars 1999, nIous prions d'agr6cr,
Messieurs, I'assurance de notre parfaite cosusiddration.
~ / Mamy REJAOLELINA
Directeur g6n6ral Agetipa
32



Annex 2
Completion Report by the Borrower
33



MINISTERE DE L'AMENAGEMENT DU TERRITOIRE
ET DE LA VILLE
AGETIPA
Agence d'Execution des Travaux
d'Infrastructures Publiques
d'Antananarivo
PROJET DE RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
AVRIL 1998
34'



Rapport d'achevement
Projet voiries urbaines d'Antananarivo Credit 2591 MAG IDA
Identification du projei
Nom du projet:           Projet Voiries Urbaines d'Antananarivo
NO du Credit:            2591-MAG
Agence d'Execution:      AGETIPA
Region:                  Region Afrique
Pays:              MADAGASCAR
Secteur:                 Urbain
1. Introduction
Au debut des annees 90, Madagascar se trouvait en plein marasme economique. Les etudes
effectuees ont et6 unanimes a montrer le faible croissance de l'economie, 1'insuffisance des
investissements pour permettre un redressement economique souhaitable. Le PIB per capita
6tait en nette regression; il se situait a moins de 100 US dollars
Cette situation est a l'origine de grandes orientations economiques axees sur: le liberalisme, la
trfansparence, la libre cowence et le developpement du secte.r prive et Ia performance.
Concemant les travaux c Iuc   d&base Th general et cJufferents aux voiries urbaines
en particulier, les insuffisances des infrastructures ont ete identifi6es comme les contraintes les
plus graves au developpement du pays. Dans le secteur des infrastructures publiques (port,
routes essentiellement), les causes profondes sont connues (P'insuflisance de financement -
graves iacunes dans la capacite d'execution -complexite des procedures... ).
Ces insuffisances se traduisent par une accumulation de retard dans les travaux d'entretien et de
rehabilitation necessaires pour soutenir une economie de marche. La mise en place d'un
systeme plus performant a ete alors necessaire. L'IDA a apporte son experience dans la
constitution d'agences d'execution des travaux publics au Gouvemement malgache Celle-ci
permettrait d'accroitre la capacite d'absorption des travaux de genie civil dans tous les secteurs.
Cette approche se cadre dans le contexte de I'ajustement structurel entrepris par le
Gouvemement malgache et de la rationalisation du role de I'administration.
2. Objectifs du projet
Le projet de voiries urbaines d'Antananarivo a pour principal objectif de prouver les merites du
recours au systeme de la ma^trise d'ouvrage de1lgue pour assurer la gestion et 1'entretien des
travaux dtinfrastructure. Le projet servira ainsi de modele qui pourra par la suite etre applique &
des usages plus diversifi6s et permettra de faire mieux prendre conscience au Gouvemement de
1'efficacit6 de ce nouvel instrument.
Les objectifs de developpement sont essentiellement : (i) porter l'infrastructure d'Antananarivo
a un niveau satisfaisant, en donnant la prionte aux routes, (ii) promouvoir les PME malgaches
dans le secteur BTP modeme en renfor,ant leurs capacites de   concevoir, executer et
35



superviser une large gamme de travaux publics, (iii) renforcer la capacite de gestion de la
municipalite, (iv) creer des emplois en encourageant le recours a des technologies a forte
intensite de main d'cuvre,  lorsque cela s'avere rentable et (v) stimuler la croissance dans le
secteur BTP et dans 1'ensemble de l'economie.
3. Description du projet
Le projet comporte trois composantes principales: i) un programme de sous-projets visant a
ameliorer l'infrastructure dans l'agglomeration d'Antananarivo, ii)une enveloppe de formation
et information axee sur les institutions publiques, les PME, l'agence et le grand public et iii) des
etudes techniques et sectorielles pour intensifier les effets des deux autres composantes.
Le projet a donne lieu A la creation de l'Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'lnfrastructures
Publiques d'Antananarivo (AGETIPA) et a accorde le role primordial a celui-ci.
4. Organisation du projet
Apres identification des sous-projets par les municipalites, L'AGETIPA se chargera de
toutes les demarches requises pour leur realisation tout en veillant aux respects des termes du
Manuel de procedures qui sont detailles. La gestion de I'agence est evaluee en fonction des
indicateurs de performance mesures mensuellement (cf annexe ). Ces actions doivent concourir
vers des objectifs contractuels qu'elle s'est engagee d'atteindre.
L'AGETIPA a signe une convention avec le Gouvemement en vertu de laquelle, elle a assumne
1'entiere responsabilite i) de la verification de l'eligibilite des sous projets, ii) du lancement des
appels d'offres aupres des bureaux d'etudes et des Pme, iii) de l'evaluation des soumissions et
de l'attribution des marches iv) de la gestion des marches: suivi controle assistance reception et
liquidation des marches et _ture d'une assLy,eW              ormation aux Bureaux
d'etudes et PME.        7ri                                           u  Bureaux
5. Preparation du projet
L'idee de mise en place du systeme de maltrise d'ouvrage deleguee a 6t6 discutde
lors de la preparation du 8 eme Projet Routier au debut des annees 90. L'expdrience de la
Banque, en Afrique, depuis plusieurs annees dans la mise en place d'agences chargees de
1'execution des travaux publics a ete explicitee par differents experts de la Banque mondiale
au Gouvemement malgache. La Banque a propose a celui-ci de demarrer l'experience sur
les voiries urbaines d'Antananarivo. Cette proposition a ete revue favorablement par le
Gouvernement malgache en decembre 1992. Une demande de PPF a e  acceptee par la
Banque pour financer la preparation du projet. La lettre d'acceptation a ete contresignee le
22 mars 1993 par le Representant legal du Gouvemement malgache.
L'AGETIPA a ete creee. Ses statuts ont e  deposes et elle a ete declaree d'utilite
publique le 20 aout 1993. Le Directeur general de I'AGETIPA a ete nomme et a eu
lagrement de l'IDA.
Pour accelerer la mise en ceuvre du projet, huit sous-projets tests ont ete identifies par la
Municipalite d'Antananarivo et le Gouvernement. Ceux -ci ont fait l'objet d'une revue de
la part de la Banque mondiale et ont ete approuves par celle-ci pendant la mission de post
evaluation en septembre 1993: L'AGETIPA et le Gouvernement ont signe une premiere
convention ainsi que I'AGETIPA et la municipalite pour la delegation de maitrise d'ouvrage
de ces sous-projets:
1. Assainissement de la rue Soavinandriana vers Hopital militaire
36



2. Realisation de travaux de point A temps sur la route circulaire Ambanidia
(chaussee bituihee)
3. ReaIisation de travaux de point A temps et des trottoirs de la rue
Raininandriamampandry
4. Amenagement d'espace public pietonnier: Escalier Place Antaninareina vers rue
Rainitovo,
5. Amenagement de 1'entree du Parc d'Ambohijatovo
6. Travaux de pavage de la rue Radley
7. Amenagement de carrefour d'Anosy
8. Ecaillage de la couche de bitumee et reglage des paves sous-jacents de la rue
Andriandahifotsy
Ces travaux ont et finances par une avance une avance de 300.000 dollars sous le numero
PPF 800.0 et mise A disposition le 20 juillet 1993. Ils etaient executes entre le 8 novembre
1993 et janvier 1994.Devant les resultats positifs des sous-projets test et les besoins de
reconstruction consecutifs au passage du cyclone Geralda, une augmentation du PPF de
975.000 dollars a et faite pendant la phase de preparation pour realiser sept autres sous-
projets en attendant la mise en vigueur du credit.
Parallelement A ces travaux tests, diverses etudes techniques ont ete entreprises pendant la
phase de preparation:
(i) le volume et la rentabilite de la production de paves dans la region d'Antananarivo;
(ii) lejardin d'Ambohijatovo;
(iii) la structure du-drainage sur les hauteurs d'Antananarivo;
(iv) la carte de la circulation AAntananarivo;
(v) l'evaluation ecologi_tn echantillon de sous-projets representatifs;
(vi) le taux de rentabilit'f ni   d'uji gchagtS    uswrojets representatifs;
(vii) le systeme et les plbI)es Z     
(viii) la definition et elaboray o"f de Ia formation,  -
(ix) les criteres applicables a la construction des voiries urbaines;
(x) les criteres de classification des PME;
(xi) la definition des tests de r6ception des travaux;
(XII)les besoins en outils informatiques;
(xiii) le format des audits techniques et financiers;
Une vingtaine d'entreprise et de bureaux d 'etudes ont concourus A la realisation de toutes
ces prestations pour la formulation detaillee du projet de voiries urbaines d'Antananarivo
Les negociations ont eu lieu A Washington du 31 janvier au 5 fevrier 1994. Le montant du
credit arrete s'elevait a 20,5 millions de dollars. Le Credit a et approuve par le Conseil
d'Administration de la Banque mondiale en mars 1994 et signe le 7 avril 1994. Les
conditions de mise en vigueurs etaient:
L'approbation d'un programme initial de sous-projets choisis pour etre executer
pendant la premiere annee.
La publication au journal officiel de la ratification de l'accord de credit
Le recrutement des auditeurs financiers
Le d6p8t dans le compte de projet par le Gouvernement et la municipalite d'au moins
l'equivalent de 300.000 US dollars
L'autorisation et la signature de la convention entre le Gouvernement et I'AGETIPA
Initialement prevu au cours du mois de juillet 1994, la mise en vigueur du credit a ete
definitivement declaree le I' aouit 1994
37



6. Mise en euvre du projet
Le projet a ete lance tres rapidement au cours du mois de mars 1994 et de fason tres
satisfaisante. Bien avant la mise en vigueur, des resultats concrets ont ete obtenus.
L'Agetipa a demontre qu'elle etait un instrument efficace pour aider la municipalite a
restaurer ses infrastructures, promouvoir les petites et moyennes entreprises du secteur de
travaux publics et foumir de 1'emploi. Pendant toute la duree de mise en ceuvre du projet,
Les valeurs prevues des indicateurs de perfornances aussi bien en matiere de gestion que de
resultats physiques ont ete depassees de facon continue depuis le lancement du projet
Ce succes s'explique en partie par la vitesse d'execution des sous-projets. AGETIPA signe
des marches en 7jours, et regle les commandes de travaux en un maximum de 1 0 jours. Les
frais de gestion d'AGETIPA representent 4% de la valeur des travaux executes. Les
effectifs au siege d'AGETIPA comprennent seulement 6 cadres sur un total de 12 agents
pour la gestion d'un programme de USD 20,5 millions sur trois ans. 874 marches ont e
signes. Le cout total cumule des travaux s'eleve a 92 milliard FMG .
7. Rlalisation des objectifs
Re&habilitation des infrastructures d'Antananarivo
106 km de rues, 111  km de trottoirs  et 104  km de caniveaux et canalisations ont et
rehabilites, 8km escaliers et ruelles pietonnieres ont et refais une   centaine de murs de
soutenement ont ete construits, cinq marches et amenagement divers ont ete amenages.
La viabilite des sous projets a montre un taux de rentabilite superieur de 15 % . Cette
evaluation a ete confirmee par des enquetes continue effectu6es aupres des beneficiaires .Les
principaux impacts ptaientJeiMS sur la connqmWation..deLintrants, plus de fluidite,
diminution des depenses d'flpO     g    <i    |-  
principau  impacts      oA       ~ 4(        -
Creation de V 'emploi en contribuant a la lutte contre la pauvrete
Le projet a genere 133.000 hommes.mois d'emplois directs durant I'execution du projet Les
entreprises ont eu recours egalement a d'autres secteurs (exploitants de carriere ou de sable, ...)
pour lesquels des effets (sur 1'emploi, sur les revenus et sur d'autres secteurs) ont ete aussi
occasionnes par les travaux, d'ou un effet multiplicateur evident. Le projet a depasse les
previsions.
P'romotion des bureaux d 'etudes et des entreprise prives et stimulation de la croissance dans
le secteur des BTP
La performance s'est averee tres satisfaisante. Les objectifs ont et depasses. les diverses
actions entreprises par l'AGETIPA ont concouru a promouvoir et a stimuler largement la
croissance dans le secteur BTP, tant au niveau des entreprises qu'a celui des bureaux d'etudes .
Le fichier de base de i'AGETIPA recensait 387 entreprises . 171 appels d'offres d'etudes et
contr6les et surveillance ont et lances: 80 bureaux d'etudes y ont participe 39 ont et declares
adjudicataires. 700 appels d'offres pour travaux ont ete lances: 172 entreprises ont
soumissionne 105 entreprises ont obtenu un marche.
A cote du role g6ndrateur de revenu au profit des PME/BE, I'AGETIPA a entrepris diverses
actions: La dispense de formnation appropriee devant accroitre leur "savoir-faire" selon les
regles de l'art, la tenue de "Chantiers-Ecoles", les incitations A la restructuration de la
38



profession des BTP, la participation a la redaction d'une "Charte Qualite" de travaux, la
redaction d'un guide de chantier et 1'etude de la mise en place d'une societe de leasing
Les activites de formation ont commence le 14 Fevrier 1994 . Quarante et un modules de
formation ont et mis en ceuvre depuis le 14 fevrier 1994. Une soixante de seances de
formation ont et organisees auxquelles ont assiste mille cent onze (I I I I) participants. En ce
qui conceme les chantiers ecoles, neuf modules ont ete dispenses; cent un (101) cadres et
Cinquante sept (57) ouvriers ont suivi ce programme de formation.
Renforcement la capacite de gestion de la municipalite
La municipalite a pris conscience de la necessite et de l'interet d'une prioritisation des
projets inities dans l'agglomeration .La programmation s'est nettement amelioree avec la
participation de diffdrents beneficiaires directs. Des ateliers de sensibilisation ont ete
organises pour assister la municipalite a l'identification de sous-projets . D'autres mesures
institutionnelles plus importantes devraient etre prises pour que la municipalite puisse jouer
son nouveau r6le dans le cadre de l'ajustement et l'assainissement des services publics.
8. Principaux facteurs ayant une incidence sur le projet
Les facteurs , qui ont cree des probilmes a gerer par I'AGETIPA pour ne pas avoir des
ecarts negatifs entre les resultats effectifs et les resultats attendus sont notamment:
Les facteurs non Iies en Ru--ral au controle du Gouvernement et de la municipaliti
La depreciation de la nroi  malgacliE doniif la vafeur aete reduite de moitie
pendant le cycle du projet qui a handicape le Gouvernement et la Municipalite pour
le paiement de leur part de financement.
Les ev6nements politiques : sept Ministres se sont succedes durant la mise en ceuvre
du credit, obligeant I'Agence a deployer des efforts de gestion de l'interface entre
les differents partenaires du projet.
Le niveau et la croissance du trafic automobile dans la ville d'Antananarivo ont
rendu difficile la r6alisation des travaux dans l'organisation des circuits de
deviation, etant donne l'dtroitesse des voies.
Les facteurs Iies en ge.neraf au conlrdle du Gouvernement et de la municipalil
Ces facteurs sont la transformation du TST en TVA et la variation du taux en debut
de periode (1995), la lourdeur administrative dans le mobilisation des fonds des
contreparties gouvemementales et municipales, la decroissance de la participation
financiere de la Commune Urbaine d'Antananarivo, I'absence de ressources
financiere pour assurer 1'entretien des ouvrages rehabilites, l'inefficacite du systeme
de drainage de la Plaine d'Antananarivo, limitant la duree de vie des ouvrages, la
capacite limitee de la Municipalite dans le contrBle des travaux executes par les
grands concessionnaires de la voirie (adduction d'eau JIRAMA, reseaux entretien
TELECOM) entrainant des degradations prematurees de certaines parties des
ouvrages deja rehabilites.
39



Les facteurs lies en genjral au conir6le de l 'AGE7IPA
La faible capacite des entreprises et bureaux d'etudes: professionnalisation
insuffisante, faible niveau d'equipement, faible acces des competences eprouvees,
acces reduit aux financements bancaires.
Les degradations avancees des infrastructures ont necessite la realisation de travaux
difficiles dont les definitions ont du etre effectuees par une approche par
anticipation, les delais necessaires pour conduire des etudes detaillees pertinentes
auraient retarde la mise en ceuvre du projet.
L'implication des agents de I'AGETIPA pendant les phases de l'execution a ete
rendue ainsi necessaire, 1'experience des PME et Bureaux d'etudes etant limit6e
d'une part, et d'autre part, les demandes de travaux formulees soit par des
personnes physiques, soit par des institutions publiques, qu'il etait difficile de
satisfaire en general, car ne respectant pas la procedure convenue et n'etant pas
inscrits a priori dans de programme municipal.
9. Perennite du projet
Perennite des ouvrazes
La perennite des ouvrages depend la capacite de l'Agetipa a prendre la nouvelle tache de
gestion de l'entretien que la Municipalite souhaite lui deieguer d'une part, et de la capacite
de la municipalite de mobiliser les ressources financieres necessaires qui devrait etre inscrit
aupres du Fonds d'entretien routier ( FER).
Plrennite du sysleme   ?      iv.x - j&A
Le modele semble actuellement etre accepte par les differentes institutions malgaches. Des
actions ont ete entreprise pour la mise en place de la loi sur la maitrise d'ouvrage d6ldgu6.
Plusieurs departements ministeriels sont sur le projet (travaux publics, Amenagement du
territoire et de la vile) .L'AGETIPA a contribue A la formulation d'un premier projet de
loi. Celle-ci devrait etre discutee au niveau de l'Assemblee Nationale en 1999 au plus tard
Perenniti du proet
L'experience du projet a reussi . Ceci n'a pas echappe aux autres maires elus des grandes
villes de Madagascar. lus ont ecrit a AGETIPA en demandant 1'extension A leurs villes des
programmes de developpement des infrastructures et du systeme de maitrise d'ouvrage
delegu6e. Les premiers responsables du pays ont demande un amendement au credit et un
nouveau credit de l'IDA pour promouvoir le developpement d'une capacit4 regionale de
maltrise d'ouvrage d6l6gude, soutenir lexpansion dtinfrastructures 4conomiques et sociales
et faciliter le developpement de petites et moyennes entreprises. Un autre credit a et6 mis en
vigueur au cours de P'ann6e 1997 pour financer le projet d'infrastructures urbaines. Ce projet
utilise le systeme de maltrise d'ouvrage deleguee et I'AGETIPA pour la mise en aeuvre du
projet
10. Performance du Gouvernement
Le Gouvemement a contribue enonnrment a la formulation et la finalisation du
projet. II a e  tres rapide pour lever toutes les conditions de mise- en vigueur. du
40



credit. En revanche sa participation financiere a e* assez difficile A obtenir. Du
point de vue dt la programmation et la planification des sous-projets relevant de la
Municipalite, une assistance a et necessaire pour arriver A une planification
spatiale et temporelle correcte.
La capacite de la Municipalite pour assurer correctement 1'exploitation des ouvrages
rehabilit6s semble faible a l'heure actuelle. La mobilisation de toutes les ressources
necessaires devrait etre faite en fonction du niveau de services requis. Des efforts
tendant a une meilleure definition de l'assiette fiscale et meilleur recouvrement sont
en cours au moment de la redaction de ce rapport. Ils devraient etre relayes et
appuyes par des choix judicieux des methodes efficaces de gestion du patrimoine
infrastructurel urbain. Des efforts restent a produire  pour surveiller, gerer et
maintenir en etat ce patrimoine .
En ce qui conceme l'agence d'exdcution, les objectifs assignes au projet ont ete
atteints.
L'amelioration du niveau de service des infrastructures de la Commune Urbaine
d'Antananarivo a e  obtenue par la rehabilitation de la voirie (chaussee, trottoirs,
assainissement, ruelles, escaliers,...)
Le developpement des PME et BE a ete enclenche, les activites d'appui
correspondantes ont et menees dans le cadre d'une formation approfondie des
ressources humaines des entreprises
L'information permanente des usagers a ete assuree et les impacts socio-
economiques des travaux de rehabilitation ont ete mesures pdriodiquement aupres de
la population, apportant un eclairage dans la conduite du projet pour mieux repondre
aux attentes des usagers.
Le systeme de Maitrise d'O -D d1 udc a ete 6prouv6e   s  ble recueillir
l'adhesion de nombreux respos Ioeaix. '-            * -
II. Performance de la Banque Mondiale
La banque a joue un role important lors de l'identification du projet et a montre
efficacement au gouvemement les avantages du systeme de maitrise d'ouvrage delgue A
partir des experiences de la Banque mondiale dans des projets similaires en Afrique. Elle.a
conduit de facon tres satisfaisante la mission d'evaluation et de post evaluation . Celle-ci a
analyse et evalue tous les details d'execution et a dimensionne le projet de maniere avoir
une forte probabilitd de reussite .
Pendant la phase execution et supervision du projet, la Banque a suivi de pres l'execution
du projet. En moyenne ,trois A quatre missions par an ont ete consacrees A la supervision
pendant l'execution. Ces missions ont porte essentiellement sur la conduite et les resultats
obtenus, les impacts du projet notamment la priorisation des sous-projets A lancer , la
recherche des solution a des problemes qui depassent la responsabilite de l'agence et la
perennisation du projet. Un partenariat permanent a existe entre la Banque et le
Gouvemement.
12. Principales leqons
Lorsque le projet est bien cible et d'une portee limitee, les resultats concourent reellement aux
attentes des diff6rents partenaires
41



- Au point de vue de l'identification de sous-projets, bien qu'une large participation des
usagers ait ete soilicitee, une priorisation des actions doit etre etablie en tenant compte
des contraintes budgetaires, socio-economiques et d'environnement physique.
- La perennite des ouvrages ne peut etre assuree uniquement par la mise en place d'un
systeme d'entretien, il serait necessaire que l'usage de ces ouvrages soit reglemente et
suivi par une entite d'exploitation dont les fonctions sont bien definies et disposant de
l'autorite et des moyens necessaires.
- Les interventions necessaires des concessionnaires (JIRAMA, TELECOM) sur les
ouvrages pour les besoins de service public doivent etre controles absolument par le
Maitre de l'ouvrage.
42



Annex 3
ICR Mission Aide-Memoire
43



MADAGASCAR
PROJET DE VOIRIES URBAINES D'ANTANARIVO
AGETIPA I
CREDIT 2591 - MAG
PROJET D'INFRASTRUCTURES URBAINES
AGETIPA II
CREDIT 2968 - MAG
Mission de supervision d'octobre 1998
AIDE-MEMOIRE
Une mission de la Banque Mondiale a sejourne A Madagascar, pour superviser le projet de
voiries urbaines d'Antananarivo (cr. 2591) et le projet d'infrastructures urbaines (cr 2968).
Elle etait composee de Messieurs Amaud Guinard, chef de mission (21/09/98 au 05/10/98) et
de Luc Cosyn, ing&nieur (01/10/98 au 14/10/98).
La mission a visite les villes de Mahajanga, de Toamasina, d'Antsirabe et de Fianarantsoa.
Ces visites ont ete mises A profit, (i) pour rencontrer les Maires et plusieurs responsables de
1'6quipe municipale, ainsi que (ii) pour visiter les travaux realises ou en cours de realisation et
certains projets proposes aux PIPM.
Le present aide-memoire rassemble les principales informations recueillies par la mission, ses
conclusions et les recommandations qu'elle formule. La mission remercie le gouvernement de
1'excellent accueil qui lui a e reserve et de la collaboration dont elle a beneficie de la part de
toutes les personnes rencontrees.
Organisation de l'Agetipa.
Suite A la demission du Directeur General en aofit dernier, l'IDA a donne sa non objection A la
nomination de M. Mamy Rajaobelina sous reserve d'approbation par l'IDA du contrat de ce
demier. La mission a discute de l'organisation et de la gestion nouvelle de I'Agetipa. Celle-ci
a remis A la mission un ensemble de documents (echange de correspondances lors de la mise
en vigueur du credit, statuts, contrats de consultants, etc.). Ces documents ont fait l'objet
d'une analyse detaill&e et l'IDA a informr I'Agetipa et les autorites concern6es de ses
commentaires et decisions par lettre du 13 octobre 1998.
AGETIPA I - Credit 2591 - MAG.
Avancement du projet.
L'ensemble des travaux est termine, seul reste a prononcer un certain nombre de receptions
definitives et A proceder au reglement des retenues de garanties correspondantes.
Les previsions de depenses jusqu'A la fin du projet s'elevent A 2.023.711.000 flmg, dont
781.074.000 fmg au titre des .paiements de retenues de garantie.
Le solde previsible sur le compte de pret A la fin du projet s'etablit a 432.691 $US.
Preparation du rapport d'achevement.
Sur la base d'un premier draft de la contribution de l'Agetipa au rapport d'achevement remis a
la mission A l'occasion de la precedente mission de supervision (13/04/98 au 24/04/1998), et
d'une serie de questions formulees par ecrit par la mission, des elements complementaires ont
,4$'



ete fournis et discutes. Certains elements d'information n'ont pu etre communiques avant la
fin de la mission et seront transmis a l'IDA, pour le 22/10/98 au plus tard.
AGETIPA II - Credit 2968 - MAG.
Avancement du projet.
Nombre de contrats signes au 30 septembre 1998:
*  Etudes:         70
*             *  Contr6le        25
9 Travaux         133
Montant total (TTC) des marches signes au 30 septembre 1998 (1997 & 1998):  -
Etudes        Contr6le        Travaux          Total
Antananarivo      248.873.772     107.860.226    6.185.729.241    6.542.463.239
Antsirabe         135.459.359      16.699.200     581.285.305    733.443.864
Toamasina         108.924.795      26.198.550     480.390.664    615.514.009
Mahajanga          47.073.075      14.463.750     466.476.594    528.013.419
Antsiranana        74.287.500      34.583.850     514.720.818    623.592.168
Fianarantsoa      131.770.689                                     131.770.689
Toliary            64.669.860                 _                   64.669.860
811.059.049    199.805.576    8.228.602.622    9.239.467.247
Previsions de d6caissement sur le compte special (TTC) pour le programme 1998.
Droits constates en 1998      Programme total
Antananarivo                4.056.691.365          12.884.571.364
Antsirabe                 2.751.094.460            3.374.763.567
Toamasina                   936.362.507            1.256.758.424
Mahajanga                   839.081.075            1.717.161.075
Antsiranana                2.758.191.250            4.499.491.250
Fianarantsoa                3.417.810.689           6.404.610.689
Toliary                    547.309.860            1.539.949.860
Total                   15.306.541.206          31.677.306.229
Tableau de bord.
L'Agetipa et la mission ont convenu de la necessite d'adopter un tableau de bord du credit
2968. Ce tableau de bord, dont les 61ements devront etre definis sans ambiguite, sera concu de
fa9on a etre un outil de gestion de I'Agetipa et de communication de l'information. Issu des
"Fiches Projet ", ce tableau de bord sera tenu a jour en temps r6el et fera partie des rapports
trimestriels. II comportera, en les distinguant, les 6leriments acquis et previsionnels, consolid6s
par ville et pour 1'ensemble du projet.
Un exemple de fiche projet et de tableau de bord a e  discute. L'Agetipa elaborera et
proposera un projet de tableau de bord avant le 30/12/98.
Prix de reference.
La mission a fait part de ses preoccupations sur les effets pervers susceptibles de r6sulter, a
long terme, du systeme d'appel d'offres et de jugement des offres sur la base de prix de



reference. Apres discussion approfondie, la mission et l'Agetipa ont convenu de supprimer les
prix de reference a titre experimental. Pendant une periode probatoire, les r6sultats des appels
d'offres seront analyses, notamment du point de vue de l'6volution des prix et de la frequence
des resiliations.
Preparation du programme 1999.
Devant la difficulte rencontree dans certaines villes du projet (appel d'offres infructueux,
definition des programmes, etc.) la mission a exprime sa preoccupation sur la continuite des
travaux entre deux programmes annuels, pr6judiciable a la fois pour les bureaux d'etudes, les
entreprises et I'Agetipa. La mission et l'Agetipa ont convenu de la n6cessite d'organiser
prochainement une reunion des maires des villes du projet. Les objectifs de cette reuinion sont
essentiellement de sensibiliser les mair2s sur l'importance de l'identification des projets
prioritaires, en insistant tout particulierement sur l'aspect eligibilite au financement par le
credit 2968.
Compte tenu de 1'experience du passe, l'Agetipa ne lance les appels d'offres qu'une fois que
la contribution de I'etat et des municipalites a e  effectivement verse sur son compte. La
mission suggere d'examiner la possibilite d'anticiper dans certains cas les appels d'offres, en
differant l'attribution des marches oui en conditionnant la mise en vigueur de ceux-ci a la mise
en place effective des credits. Une telle disposition permettrait notamment d'eviter les d6lais
lies aux appels d'offres infructueux.
Actualisation des indicateurs de performances.
Certains indicateurs de performance utilises pour le credit 2591 et reconduits, s'averent peu
adaptes, voire susceptibles d'avoir des effets pervers. Par ailleurs ces indicateurs ne
concernent que l'Agetipa, alors qu'il parait souhaitable d'introduire egalement des indicateurs
de performance extemes (mise en place des credits par le gouvernement, et par les
municipalites). En consequence, la mission et l'Agetipa ont convenu de reexaminer les
indicateurs actuels et de mettre en place a l'occasion de la prochaine mission de supervision la
nouvelle grille d'indicateurs pour le projet 2968.
Audits financiers et techniques - Missions d'appui technique.
A la mise en vigueur du projet, l'IDA a donne' sa non objection sur les termes de reference et
le contrat pour la realisation des audits financiers et techniques. Par rapport au premier projet
la mission de l'auditeur a ete etendue et comporte maintenant le rapprochement des elements
comptables et des realisation physiques. Ceci ne remplace pas les " audits techniques ", qui
existaient pour le projet 2591. La mission et l'Agetipa ont convenu de l'intdr8t d'avoir recours
a des missions d'appui technique periodiques, portant sur la pertinence des choix techniques,
la qualite des etudes et travaux, l'organisation de l'execution (d6coupage en lots, etc.).
L'Agetipa soumettra prochainement les termes de reference et une short-list en vue le lancer
une consultation, dans des delais permettant de disposer d'un premier rapport de mission
d'appui technique pour la prochaine mission de supervision, a la fin du premier trimestre
1999.
Evaluation de 'iimpact social et environnemental des sous projets.
La mission et l'Agetipa ont convenu de la poursuite les etudes d'impact social et
environnemental, telles qu'elles 6taient men6es dans le prec6dent projet.



Organisation des appels d'offres dans les villes autres qu'Antananarivo.
Plusieurs appel d'offres ont ete declares infructueux, faute d'un nombre suffisant d'offres.
Afin d'eviter les retards qui en resultent, les appels d'offres font maintenant l'objet d'une
publicite au niveau national.
Visites sur le terrain.
La mission a proced6 a des visites d'une serie de sous projets dans les villes de Mahajanga,
Toamasina, Antsirabe et Fianarantsoa. Les divers commentaires relatives a ces visites figurent
en annexe.
Prochaine mission de supervision.
La prochaine mission de supervision est programmee pour mars/avril 1999.
Le present aide memoire est provisoire. La version definitive de 1' aide memoire sera
communiquee dans les jours qui suivent le retour de la mission a Washington.



Annexe 1, Mahajanga.
Le contexte de Mahajanga conduit a preconiser de lancer les appels d'offres sur la base de
variantes techniques (pour les trottoirs, paves <-> dalles, pour les chaussees, enrobes <->
paves).
Le decoupage des lots a e  evoque et il ressort des discussions qu'il est indique de separer les
lots de fournitures (paves, dalles) et les lots de mise en cruvre. Pour permettre un meilleur
amortissement des couts de mobilisation du materiel et constituer des ensembles attractifs, les
lots de fourniture seraient regroupes.
Deux sous projets susceptibles d'etre repris dans un programme futur ont e  visites.
Annexe 2, Toamasina.
Une rencontre avec l'equipe dirigeante de la commune a permis de faire un tour d'horizon, ohi
I'accent a e  mis sur la necessite de defirir une strategie pour la selection des projets futurs et
pour l'entretien des ouvrages.
La mission a pu assister a l'ouverture des plis des deux lots de travaux de r6habilitation de
l'assainissement du boulevard de la Fidelite. En ce qui concerne le lot nl, notons que toutes
les offres sont inferieures au cout de reference de cette operation. Le montant moyen des
offres s'etablit a 46,4 millions de fmng, soit moins de 85% du coit de reference (57,8). Deux
des quatre offres sont susceptible d'etre ecartees pour le motif " inferieur a 85% du montant
de reference ".
Lors de la mission precedente la mission avait emis des reserves sur deux sous projets. Les
etudes menees depuis, permettent de lever ces r6serves sur un des projets. Ceci resulte des
faits suivants
Pour le lac Madauto, l'adoption d'un exutoire existant (canal de Lattre de Tassigny) permet de
r6duire les couits tout en evitant de creer un exutoire supplementaire (reduction des charges
d'entretien).
Pour le Boulevard de l'Independance, bien que la possibilite de recuperation d'une partie des
buses, permette une reduction sensible du cofit, la faisabilite des travaux reste suspendue a la
possibilite d'adopter d'une solution viable pour l'exutoire.
Annexe 3, Fianarantsoa.
L'ensemble des 6 sous projets du progranmme 1998 a ete visite. Ceux-ci n'appellent pas de
remarques.
Une presentation de l'etude de rehabilitation du canal principal a ete faite par le bureau
d'etudes.
Annexe 4, Antsirabe.
Une visite des sous projets du programme 1988 a et realisee au retour de Fianarantsoa. Le
temps disponible n'a pas permis de rencontrer les representants de la mairie, rencontres lors
de la pr6cedente mission de supervision.
Pour l'essentiel les sous projets constituent la continuite des sous projets realis6s en 1997,
dans le cadre du credit 2591, et constituent un ensemble coherent et d'un interet economique
certain.



Map Section



IBRD 20035R1
Atranan
MADAGASMAACARNG
Routes~~~~~~ gaoddrazg
____ AII-wealher rood,  ..   ~         ~         ~          j.-.
Roues ssesiWs e tate  0t55  .NOSA30k-blob
-  Nas-arrrr~roANTANAdNARIV                                                                    4
mi  nt~~~~~~~~~~~~V~svi~
HoA,w    -  n.      K 
Rabies salsanogeres ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
so pivot ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ olp
Ceoltole dEtot  .            .                   .                                  BeAlosira
Chef-flea defasrta,ry  ~     ~          d.h A.no~o<                                             4'Adp
F  ts~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~)rtor     ~
Ol oepks                                                nsr
0Ank-ob.       IANAR            S O
*                                                                       AnoiloBekiry               A     s'AWIsdfoov
*   /
\   Arrso ~ ~ ~ ooo,
+'Arso  roes   jok  MarorroCEMaRr19o



