CREDIT NUMBER 2591 HAG
Development Credit Agreement
(Antananarivo Urban Works Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                  +             , 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2591 HAG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      (/ ,,LAX-7C           , 1994, between
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the  Project will be    carried   out  by  the Agence
d'Ex6cution des Travaux d'Infrastructures Publiques d'Antananarivo
(AGETIPA) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to AGETIPA the proceeds
of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and AGETIPA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.   The  "General   Conditions  Applicable   to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of   the  Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Beneficiary" means the public agency of the Borrower or
the municipality, as the case may be, for whose account a subproject
is executed;
(b)   "contrat de maltrise d'ouvrage d6lCgu6e" means the
contract referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;


﻿- 2 -
(c)   "Convention" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and AGETIPA pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes any schedules to the Convention;
(d)   "FA" means Fivondronana d'Antananarivo-Renivohitra;
(e)   "MAT" means the Borrower's Minist6re de l'Am6nalement du
Territoire;
(f)   "MTP" means the Borrower's Ministere des Travaux
Publics;
(g)   "operating costs" means the incremental operating costs
incurred by AGETIPA under the Project on account of local staff
salaries and allowances, maintenance of vehicles, fuel and
equipment, and office rent, supplies and services;
(h)   "Manual of Procedures" means the Manual of Procedures
referred in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to
the Manual of Procedures;
(i)   "project account" means the project account referred to
in paragraph 2 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(j)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and AGETIPA, of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(k)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"  means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to two letters of agreement, dated March 22, 1993, and
February 25, 1994, respectively, between the Borrower and the
Association;
(1)   "SME" means small and medium scale enterprise;
(m)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(n)   "subproject" means a subproject under Part A of the
Project and to be financed under the Project.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirteen million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 13,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)


﻿to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kird imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1,
commencing June 1, 2004 and ending December 1, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on December 1,
2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some


﻿- 5 -
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. AGETIPA is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause AGETIPA to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of AGETIPA
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable AGETIPA to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
(c)   The Borrower shall conclude an agreement (hereinafter
referred to as the Convention) with AGETIPA, under which it shall
transfer to AGETIPA the entire proceeds of the Credit on a non-
reimbursable basis and on such other terms and conditions as shall
be acceptable to the. Association; including, but without being
limited to, provisions to the following effect:
(i)    the  amount  so  transferred  to AGETIPA   for
purposes of Part A of the Project shall be used
exclusively to finance subprojects and the
operating costs;
(ii)    no subproject shall be considered for financing
under the Project except in accordance with
criteria, and terms and conditions, set forth in
a Manual of Procedures adopted by AGETIPA, and
approved by the Borrower and the Association;
(iii)    goods and services required for the purposes of
Part A of the Project, or pursuant thereto,
shall be procured in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association, and set forth in
the Manual of Procedures;
(iv)    no subproject shall be considered for financing
under the Project, except to the extent that the
counterpart funds required to cover the cost of
the subproject (including operating costs) have
been included in the annual budget of the
Beneficiary;
(v)    no   subproject  shall be executed under the
Project: unless (A) a contract (hereinafter
referred to as "contrat de maltrise d'ouvrage
d6lagu6e"  has  been   concluded  between  the
Beneficiary and AGETIPA, and (B) the counterpart
funds  required  to  cover  the  cost  of the
subproject (including operating costs) have been
deposited into the project account by the
Beneficiary.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Convention in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the


﻿-7-
Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Convention
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of goods, works and consultants' services, required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out
by AGETIPA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   AGETIPA  shall have   failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Convention, the Manual of Procedures or the
Project Agreement;
(b)   the Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Convention;
(c)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, a situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that AGETIPA will be able to perform
its obligations under the Convention, the Manual of Procedures or
the Project Agreement;
(d)   the statutes of AGETIPA    shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of AGETIPA to perform any of its
obligations under the Convention, the Manual of Procedures or the
Project Agreement;


﻿(e)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of AGETIPA or for the suspension of its operations; and
(f)   any Beneficiary shall have failed to comply with an
obligation to maintain infrastructure works rehabilitated under the
Project, or with any other of its obligations under a contrat de
maltrise d'ouvrage d6l6gu6e.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (a), (b) or (f) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (c), (d) or (e) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   AGETIPA has submitted to the Association, and obtained
its approval for, an initial program of selected subprojects to be
implemented during the first year of the project implementation
period;
(b)   the project account has been duly opened, and the
Borrower and FA have:
(i)    deposited therein an aggregate initial amount of
not less than $300,000 equivalent, representing
about one-third of the counterpart funds
required to meet the cost of subprojects during
the first year of project implementation period;
and


﻿-9-
(ii)    made adequate budgetary allocations in their
respective annual budgets to cover the balance
of the counterpart funds required to meet the
cost of subprojects during the first year of
project implementation period; and
(c)   the auditors referred to in Section 4.0.1 of the Project
Agreement have been duly recruited.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by AGETIPA, and is legally binding upon AGETIPA in
accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Convention has been duly authorized or ratified
by the Borrower and AGETIPA and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and AGETIPA in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Antananarivo
Madagascar


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                Telex:
MINFIN                    22489
Antananarivo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day End year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By ISI~
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /y/a-6W/&6'Ozac4~                 -
(7 Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
(Section 2.02 (a))
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil works              9,640,000       95% up to December
31, 1995, and 85%
thereafter
(2)   Design and                 770,000       95% up to December
supervision of                           31, 1995, and 85%
civil works                              thereafter
(3)   Operating costs            720,000       95% up to December
31, 1995, and 85%
thereafter
(4)   Equipment and               10,000       100%
furniture
(5)   Training and             1,230,000       100%
consultancy services
(other than under
Category 2 above)
(6)   Refunding of               930,000       Amounts due
Project                                  pursuant to
Preparation                              Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                  of this Agreement
TOTAL              13,300,000


﻿- 13 -
2.    For purposes of Categories (1), (2) and (3) of the table in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the disbursement percentage applicable
to each withdrawal of proceeds thereunder shall be determined by
reference to:
(a) the disbursement percentage applicable on the date of
signature of the contract to which the withdrawal relates; or
(b) in the case of a contract entered into prior to the
Effective Date, the disbursement percentage specified under the
Project Preparation Advance.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for civil works not exceeding $100,000
equivalent, and goods and services not exceeding $20,000 equivalent,
and expenditures for operating costs and training, under such terms
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDLLE 2
(Preamble, para. (A))
Description of the Project
The   objectives  of   the  Project   are  to   upgrade  the
infrastructure of Antananarivo and promote the development of small
and medium scale enterprises in the construction and engineering
industry, and, in so doing, demonstrate the merits of contracting
out the management and maintenance of infrastructure works, and
serve as a model of executing agency for the future management and
maintenance of such works by the Borrower and others.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Establishment of a program of subprojects
1.    Establishment of a pipeline of prequalified subprojects
submitted on behalf of one or more Beneficiaries, involving:
(a)   rehabilitation and maintenance of about 300 km of roads
in the metropolitan area of Antananarivo, including:
*      laying new stone paving,
*      resetting existing stone pavement,
*      patching potholes and sealing of bituminous
roads,
*      cleaning and reconstructing ditches and pipes,
*      improving street crossings, and;
(b)   rehabilitation of public areas and pedestrian surfaces,
including:
*      revamping of city parks and playgrounds,
*      improving/creating market places,


﻿- 15 -
*      improving bus and freight terminals, and
*      rehabilitating sidewalks and public stairs.
2.    On the basis of the pipeline of prequalified subprojects under
paragraph 1 of this Part, selection, sequencing and packaging of a
program of subprojects, having regard to the objectives of the
Project, the availability of funds, and the number and size of
street works that can be carried out without unduly affecting the
flow of traffic through the city.
Part B:     Training and information
1.    Provision of technical and managerial assistance for the
benefit of AGETIPA, SMEs, FA and other public sector institutions,
including MAT and MTP.
2.    Training for the benefit of SMEs, inclading specialized
training for the more qualified SMEs seeking to be executing
agencies in their own right and to compete with or, as the case may
be, supplant AGETIPA.
3.    Organization of information and participatory workshops either
to serve as a means of channelling information to a specific
audience or to be used by FA to discuss infrastructure options with
the ultimate beneficiaries.
4.    Organization of information campaigns, using mass media to
provide information to the public at large, and other modern means
of communication to disseminate specific information to targeted
audiences.
Part C:     Technical studies
Carrying out of various technical and sectoral studies to
sharpen the impact of Parts A and B of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
(Section 3.01 (b))
Implementation Program
1.    (a)   The Borrower and the Association shall, not later than
September 30, 1995, undertake, in conjunction with AGETIPA, a
midterm review of the Project, during which they shall exchange
views generally on all matters relating to the progress of the
Project and the performance by the Borrower and AGETIPA of their
respective obligations under this Agreement and, in particular:
(i)    the progress achieved by    the Borrower and
AGETIPA, respectively, during the current fiscal
year,   having  regard   to  the   performance
indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and
the Association;
(ii)    the  status   of  financial  and   procurement
performance under the Project;
(iii)    the proposed budget and work program for the
forthcoming fiscal year;
(iv)    the adequacy of arrangements for the selection,
financing and implementation of subprojects, and
the merits of cost recovery; and
(v)    in order to consolidate the achievements of the
Project, details of a proposed plan to ensure
the best use of the resources of FA.
(b) Not later than one month prior to the midterm review,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, a
report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
on the progress and status of the Project, and giving details, in
particular, of the various matters to be discussed at the said
review.
(c)   Following the midterm review, the Borrower undertakes to
act promptly and diligently, in order to take, or assist AGETIPA in
taking, any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any short-
coming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to implement,
or assist AGETIPA in implementing, such other measures as may have


﻿- 17 -
been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the
objectives of the Project.
2.    The Borrower shall open, on behalf of AGETIPA, an account in
local currency to be operated and maintained by AGETIPA, in a
commercial bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, and shall deposit therein, or cause other Beneficiaries
to deposit therein, such amounts as may be payable to AGETIPA, under
any contrat de maltrise d'ouvrage d6l6gude, on account of a
subproject.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
(Section 2,02 (b))
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Projezt and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 19 -
(ii)    Prior to, or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this SChedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3  of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the  total unwithdrawn   amount  of  the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 20 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Acccunt for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Ink for Reconstruction and Development and the
Inernational Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


