Document of
PILE Copy                            The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2 1 81-UV
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
iTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
FOR AN
ARTISAN AND SMALL AND
MEDIUM SCALE ENTERPRISE
PROJECT
November 15, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution nd may be used by reciplents only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



Currency Equivalents
US$ 1 - CFAF 245
The CFA (Communaute Financiere d'Afrique) Franc is fixed with respect to
the French Franc (1 FF = CFAF 50) and floats with respect to the US dollar.
In this report the following conversion has been used:
US$ I = CFAF 245
CFAF 1 million - US$4,082
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       African Development Bank
AFCOPA    Association Francaise de Formation, Cooperation, Promotion
et Animation d'Entreprises
ARCOMA    Atelier Regional de Construction de Materiel Agricole
BCEAO     Banque Centrale de Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BICIA     Banque Internationale pour le Commerce, l'Industrie et
l'Agriculture
BIV       Banque Internationale des Voltas
BND-HV    Banque Nationale de Developpement - Haute Volta
BOAD      Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement
CAISSTAB  Caisse de Stabilisation du Prix des Produits Agricoles
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CEAO      Communaute Economique de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
CNDI      Caisse Nationale des Depots et Investissements
CNPAR     Centre National de Perfectionnement des Artisans Ruraux
DEG       Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et Cooperation
FED       Fonds Europeen de Developpement
ILO       International Labor Organization
KfW       Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
OPEV      Office de Promotion de 1/Entreprise Voltaique
ORD       Office Regional de Developpement
SACS      Service d'Assistance, Conseil et Soutien
SME       Small and Medium Scale Enterprise
SSE       Small Scale Enterprise
UMOA      Union Monetaire de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
UNIDO     United Nations Industrial Development Organization
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page 1 of 3 pages
UPPER VOLTA: ARTISAN AND SMALL AND
MEDIUM SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Upper Volta.
Beneficiaries:       Banque Nationale de Developpement (BND); Centre National
de Perfectionnement des Artisans Ruraux (CNPAR); Office
de Promotion de l'Entreprise Voltaique (OPEV).
Amount:             US$4.0 million.
Terms:              Standard.
Relending Terms:    Government will relend US$2.7 million of the proceeds of
the IDA credit to BND at 7.9 percent, the current Bank
lending rate, for 15 years including 3 years grace.
US$230,000 of this would be for technical assistance and
US$20,000 for staff training. Repayment from BND to
Government will be on a fixed term with equal payments of
interest and principal. The on lending rate to sub-borrowers
will be 11.5 percent. Terms are flexible with a maximum of
15 years and a minimum of 2 years. For small scale loans
that are within the Central Bank's small scale Enterprise
limit of borrowings below CFAF 20 millions Government has
agreed to compensate BND for the difference between the
interest it is permitted to charge, 8.5 percent, and its
on lending rate 11.5 percent, through a subsidy account.
The upper limit for BND's lending to medium scale firms
(assets of up to 125 million FCFA) would be US$1,000,000
or 40 percent of the US$2.45 million line of credit.
Interest charged on sub-loans from the US$400,000 that
Government is to give to the CNPAR as a grant will be at
8.5 percent and include flexible terms up to 10 years with
-up to 3 years grace.
Project
Description:        The project is designed to generate off-farm employment
by providing financial and technical support to artisans
and small and medium scale enterprises through the BND,
OPEV and CNPAR.  BND will receive a line of credit for
small and medium scale enterprises and technical assist-
ance in the spheres of management and accounting. Tech-
nical assistance will also be provided for training OPEV
and CNPAR personnel as well as for imparting technical
and managerial skills to entrepreneurs. The beneficiaries
are the artisans, entrepreneurs and their employees who
would be the recipients of funds provided through the
project and technical assistance. It is estimated that
This documont ha a restncted dsttibution and my be wed by recipients only in the performance
of their olafiW duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



Page 2 of 3 pages
750 jobs will be created in the modern sector and 1500
in the traditional sector. The project faces no
special risks, though the job creation targets would
not be fully realized if OPEV and BND fall short of
lending the average cost per job target of US$5,000 or
if CNPAR is unable to expand operations to reach the
projected number of sub-borrowers.
Estimated Cost:     The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is esti-
mated at US$4.4 million. Taxes account for an addi-
tional US$.7 million. The proposed IDA credit of
US$4.0 million would cover 90 percent of total costs
net of taxes. Details of cost estimates including
taxes are summarized in the following table:
Proposed Financing
Entre-
IDA. BND       Other Government    preneurs  Total
------------------($ Million)--------------------
Credit Component
Artisans (CNPAR)           .40    -                              .05    .45
Modern Small (BND)        1.45    -                              .50   1.95
Modern Medium (BND)       1.00   .06                             .26   1.32
Subtotal                2.85   .06                            .81   3.72
Technical Assistance
1.15   .06            .086             -     1.296
TOTAL                  4.00   .12            .086            .81    5.016
DISTRIBUTION %           80    2               2               16     100
Financing Plan:     IDA's contribution of US$4 million would cover 100% of
the foreign costs, US$3.4 million, and US$.6 million of
local costs. It is estimated that IDA's contribution
towards local costs would include US$.2 for BND sub-
loans to small scale borrowers, US$.1 million for CNPAR's
credit-in-kind to artisans, and US$.3 million for support
to CNPAR, OPEV and Government. US$1.0 million equivalent
including taxes will be provided by Government, other
local sources and entrepreneurs.



Page 3 of 3 pages
Final Date for
Prolect Submission: June 1980.
Free Limit:          US$50,000 for individual sub-projects, the aggregate
free limit is US$1,500,000.
Estimated
Disbursements:       Fiscal Year            Annual             Cumulative
…--------------------- US$ O  00…
1978                   200                 200
1979                   825                1025
1980                  2000                3025
1981                   875                3900
1982                   100                4000
Appraisal Report:    Appraisal of an Artisan and Small and Medium Scale
Enterprise Project, Upper Volta, No. 1667a-UV dated
November 15, 1977.
Map:                 IBRD 11498R






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
FOR AN ARTISAN AND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Upper Volta in an amount equivalent
to US$4 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a project for artisans
and small and medium scale enterprises. Government would relend US$2.7
million of the proceeds of the Credit to the BND at the current Bank lending
rate for 15 years including 3 years of grace. US$1.24 million would be
used by Government-to-make grants to CNPAR and OPEV and US$60,000 would be
used by Government for-a study on incentives in the industrial sector and for
a training program for the staff of the Department of External Debt at the
Treasury.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report entitled "Current Economic Position
and Development Prospects of Upper Volta" was distributed to the Executive
Directors on July 7, 1975 (RN 564a-UV). An updating economic mission visited
the country in April, 1977 and its main findings are incorporated into this
report. Annex I contains country data.
Background
3.        With a per capita GNP of US$110 in 1976, Upper Volta is one of
the poorest African countries and is classified among the 29 "least developed
countries" by the United Nations. The country's economy faces a number of
development constraints including extreme variability of rainfall, generally
poor soils, few exploitable minerals, long distances to the nearest seaports,
uneven population distribution with regard to available land resources, a
shortage of skilled manpower, and limited potential for industrialization.
These disadvantages also explain Upper Volta's relatively slow rate of eco-
nomic growth. For the period 1967-75,. real GNP grew at an average annual
rate of 2.5 percent, or only slightly faster than population growth; per
capita real incomes as a consequence remained virtually stagnant.
4.        Upper Volta is a rural economy and the economic structure has
undergone little change over the last 15 years: agriculture and livestock
provide a living for over 90 percent of the population but account for less



than half of GNP. The modern manufacturing sector, consisting mostly of
import-substituting industries, accounts for less than 10 percent of GNP,
while the tertiary sector contributes about one-third. Private and public
consumption typically absorb 95 percent to 100 percent of GNP, which means
that the bulk of capital formation (in the monetary sector) - usually ranging
from 14-18 percent of GNP - has to be financed by foreign resources. Exports
consist almost entirely of agricultural and livestock products.
5.        Although Upper Volta is one of the world's most rural countries
with more than 90% of its labor force working in the primary sector, the
urban population is estimated to have grown 5% annually over the past decade,
and is expected to increase from 500,000 in 1975 (i.e. 8.2% of total popula-
tion) to 1.7 million by 2,000, doubling the urban share of national population.
The two largest towns, the capital Ouagadougou (220,000), and Bobo-Dioulasso
(150,000), are currently growing at 7% per year, but some uncontrolled squat-
ter areas on the periphery of the cities are expanding up to 20% annually.
More than half of urban growth can be attributed to rural-urban migration
accelerated, in the recent past, by. extreme deprivation resulting from the
severe drought in rural areas.    Urban growth, far from solving the problem
of poverty, thus reflects a relocation of poor households from rural to urban
areas. Given the sluggish growth of the rural economy, a large number of the
rural population emigrates in search of employment to towns and to coastal
countries, mainly Ivory Coast and Ghana. If opportunities for wage employ-
ment did not exist in these countries the rate of urban migration within
Upper Volta would be many times greater.
Recent Developments
6.        The Sahelian drought of 1973 caused a severe setback in agriculture
and livestock production. Output of food grains (sorghum and millet) dropped
by more than 20 percent, calling for emergency food imports of about 100,000
tons in 1973/74. Output of cotton, the principal export crop, fell by one-
third and drought-related herd losses were estimated at 10 percent. With
normal rainfall in 1974, crop production rebounded, but recovery in the live-
stock sector was inevitably much slower. Production of food crops in 1975
equalled the record level achieved in 1970, while output of cotton also in-
creased substantially. As a result, GNP as a whole rose by 7.5 percent in
real terms. By contrast, in 1976/77, food production recorded an estimated
deficit of about 70,000 tons, for which international aid was requested by
Government in early February of this year. Owing to the relatively good
performance in other sectors, however, GNP as a whole is estimated to have
risen, though at a somewhat slower rate than in 1975.
7.        The external trade balance has continued to deteriorate in recent
years following worldwide inflation for import goods and sluggish exports due
to the drought: the resource gap more than doubled from US$64 million in 1972
to US$159 million in 1975. The overall balance of payments, however, was in
surplus until 1974 thanks to increasing inflows of foreign capital and workers'
remittances from abroad (mainly the Ivory Coast). These remittances have
traditionally been a very important source of income for Upper Volta. In



1975 the overall balance of payments showed a small deficit (US$8.9 million)
for the first time since 1968, due chiefly to a recent border conflict with
Mali. A balance of payments deficit occurred again in 1976, reducing foreign
exchange reserves by US$15.5 million to US$52.9 million.
8.        Over the period 1968-74, Government's financial position has been
relatively strong as a result of an austere spending policy, French budgetary
subsidies, and surpluses generated by autonomous public institutions such as
the Price Stabilization Fund for Agricultural Products. At the end of 1974,
public sector deposits with the banking system stood at CFAF 9.3 billion
(US$38.7 million), equivalent to about three-fourths of the corresponding
year's current revenue. However, in the last two years, government finances
have been strained by exceptional circumstances, i.e. the border conflict
with Mali, rising wage-price levels and a relatively inelastic tax base
In 1975, for the first time in many years, the budget recorded a deficit of
CFAF 1.4 billion owing to exceptional military expenditures; a deficit of
much the same order is likely to have occurred in 1976 as well.
9.        To accelerate development through public sector investments, in
January 1975, the-Government established the Caisse Nationale des Depots
et Investissements (CNDI). CNDI mobilizes savings from public and private
bodies and channels them into public infrastructure projects and other
economically and financially profitable undertakings. It aims at annual
commitments of around CFAF 3.2 billion and by the end March, 1977, had
committed CFAF 9.79 billion. In line with the budgetary problem described
above, the CNDI is facing serious difficulties in replenishing its resources
so that it may maintain the current level of its lending activities which have
been averaging slightly less than CFAF 4.0 billion per year. As of April 29,
1977, total resources of the CNDI amount only to CFAF 675 million. The CNDI
reportedly is planning to borrow from abroad in order to continue its lending
operations.
Foreign Aid
10.       During the period 1967-1975, Upper Volta received from its major
donors annual average aid inflows of about US$42.0 million, with sharp in-
creases during the last three years. Principal foreign donors are France,
FED, Canada, Germany, USA, IDA and the UNDP. About 85 percent of all aid
has been in the form of grants, and, of the remaining 15 percent, 90 percent
consisted of loans on concessionary terms. Investment aid accounted for about
two-thirds of the total, followed by technical assistance and budget support
(10 percent).  In recent years aid inflows increased considerably due to
drought-related relief operations (1974). While new donors, in particular
some of the Arab countries, are expected to increase their involvement in the
country, traditional aid sources are likely to remain dominant for many years
to come. IDA is gradually becoming one of the main sources of aid: its total
commitments stand at US$85.4 million as of October 31, 1977.
11.       External public debt at the end of 1976 stood at US$247.5 million,
(including an undisbursed amount of US$163.1 million), in which the IDA's
share was about 31 percent. The ratio of debt service payments to exports



- 4 -
of goods and non-factor services was about 6.4 percent in 1976. IDA's share in
total debt service payments is still insignificant. Although the debt service
ratio is expected to increase somewhat in the near future, no special problems
are foreseen.
Development Policies and Prospects
12.       Since most of the potential for economic development in the medium
and long term lies in the agricultural sector, emphasis should be put on
increasing agricultural productivity in the rural sector and the improve-
ment of supporting services. One of the basic problems facing the country's
rural sector is an uneven population distribution with respect to available
resources. About 61 percent of the total population live in the central re-
gion (the Mossi Plateau), which comprises only 34 percent of the total area
and which is much less favorably endowed than the southern and southwestern
regions with respect to rainfall and soil quality. The occurrence of river-
blindness in the river valley areas explains in part the concentration of
population on the Mossi plateau. An important component of the country's
long-term development strategy is therefore to redistribute population to
more fertile areas in the southwestern part of the country, which have so
far been relatively underpopulated.
13.       While the thrust of development efforts will remain in agriculture,
two other areas, industry and urban planning, are to receive increased atten-
tion. Government urban policy aims at providing a minimum package of infra-
structure and services to the urban population, especially those living in
the squatter neighborhoods of the larger towns. Government's industrial
policy aims at saving foreign exchange through import substitution where
feasible at promoting export oriented, local resource based industries and at
stimulating employment in urban and rural areas.
14.       The last five-year Plan (1972-76) was well conceived and essentially
project-oriented. GNP in real terms was expected to grow only 3.5% p.a. during
the Plan period. However, external factors such as the drought and worldwide
inflation adversely affected the economy, and actual growth (2%) fell short of
the moderate target. 'In December 1975, the Government drew up guidelines for
the next Development Plan (1977-81), which is currently under preparation.
The Plan will be conceived in a longer-term "perspective" for tackling the
country's structural problems. Rural development in the broadest sense, in-
cluding the resettlement of people in the riverblindness-freed zones, will
continue to occupy center stage; education and employment will be given higher
priority than in the past, and close linkage between the two will be actively
sought in the form of a production-oriented education system. One of the
crucial issues in planning investment allocation will be to determine the
extent to which it is preferable to concentrate development efforts in the
more fertile areas, and to facilitate out-migration from the Mossi Plateau
towards them. While the Government, in principle, is inclined to favor con-
centration of investment in the more fertile areas, the extent to which it
will be reflected in the third five-year Plan investment program is not yet
known.



15.       Foreign capital and technical assistance will continue to play a
vital role in the development of Upper Volta for some time to come. In view
of the country's poverty and limited growth potential, it will be appropriate
for external lending agencies to provide assistance on highly concessionary
terms and to finance a high proportion of project costs, including a substantial
amount of local costs. Furthermore, since lack of operating funds, limited
absorptive capacity, and shortfalls in project preparation have more often
than not been identified as principal bottlenecks in effective implementation
of planned projects, intensive efforts should be made by foreign donors to
assist the Government in its efforts to gradually remove these constraints.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
16.       To date, the Bank Group's contribution to Upper Volta's development
has consisted of fourteen IDA projects totalling US$85.4 million of which
29.7 million has been disbursed as of October 31, 1977. Annex II contains a
summary statement of these credits as of October 31, 1977 as well as notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Experience with ongoing projects has generally been satisfactory.
The Bank Group's strategy in Upper Volta is dictated by the extreme poverty of
the country and the need to raise productivity-in agriculture and livestock,
on which the bulk of the population depends for a livelihood. Basic infras-
tructure, necessary to the economy, is being developed with the assistance of
IDA projects for road construction and upgrading,-and in telecommunications.
IDA lending, in line with Government's policy, is primarily directed to
projects in agricultural, education and rural area improvements, with special
emphasis given to improvement which will favor the movement of peoples away
from the over-populated and ecologically disadvantaged central plateau to
the southwest, where conditions are much better. Ongoing projects in this
area includes a livestock project, an integrated rural development project
and a cotton project. The Banfora - Bobo-Dioulasso - Hounde road presently
being constructed under the Third Highway project provides the most important
transport link in this region of substantial agricultural potential. The
proposed project would improve the living and employment conditions of the
most disadvantaged members of both rural and urban Upper Volta as well as
assist small and medium scale enterprises in the modern sector.
18.       The main objectives of Bank Group lending in the future are:    (a)
to promote agricultural development so as to help the country attain some
degree of food self-sufficiency (b) to facilitate the movement of the rural
population from the Mossi Plateau-to the Southwest and to areas freed from
Riverblindness and help with their integration into their new environment
(c) to strengthen infrastructure facilities (d) to promote employment and
(e) to mobilize resources from other donors through cofinancing. In keeping
with the above objectives, future projects include an integrated rural devel-
opment settlement project aimed at the repopulation of areas which have



- 6 -
been underpopulated as a result of Riverblindness and lack of easy accesibi-
lity, a second feeder road project, a small pilot irrigation project, a
forestry project and a follow-up education project. An urban project linked
to this proposed project, will be presented to the Executive Directors shortly.
PART III: THE SETTING
19.       While industry and construction account for only 7 percent of GDP,
this sector has been one of the most dynamic, averaging real growth of 12
percent per annum from 1968-1972. Government estimates indicate that about
50 percent of total industrial sector output can be attributed to artisans
and traditional enterprises working in food processing, textiles, construction
and metal working. Most modern firms are located in Ouagadougou and Bobo-
Dioulasso, the country's major urban centers, while most traditional artisans
are thought to be located in rural areas. Out of an economically active
population of about three million, only 7,800 persons are estimated in 1975 to
be engaged in modern manufacturing and agro-industries. No estimate is
available for traditional artisans or other branches of industry.
Civil Works and the Local Construction Sector
20.       Almost all large scale civil works are performed by expatriate
firms. Four local contractors have been involved in minor civil works, the
supply of materials and some irrigation works and one of these is the sub-
contractor for 50 km of highway under IDA's Third Highway project. There are
about seven larger Upper Voltan construction firms, a similar number of
smaller firms and numerous informal businesses which are primarily engaged in
the house building sector.
Artisanal Sector
21.       No census of artisans in Upper Volta has been carried out.   Never-
theless, from partial studies of the sector, it is possible to gauge their
characteristics and performance. Typically they are family based and tech-
nologically unsophisticated using simple, rudimentary equipment; they employ
a small number of wage earners.and service local markets. Their major activi-
ties are in food production (beverages, bakery and butcher shops), manufactur-
ing (metal working, carpentry, pottery, blacksmithing, and basket weaving)
and construction. of private housing. No estimate of employment in the arti-
sanal sector is available.
22.       The following table gives the characteristics of smail, medium and
large modern sector and traditional artisanal enterprises in Upper Volta.



-7-
Source of
Employment     Credit Out-   Institutional
Size              Assets         Number        standing       Support
Traditional Artisans  Up to $3,000   Up to  10     Up to $2,000    CNPAR, OPEV
Small-Scale Modern    From $3,001      From 11     From $2001      BND, OPEV,
to $100,000     to 30        to $60,000      local banks
Medium-Scale           From $100,001   From 31     From $60,001     BND, OPEV,
to $400,000     to 100       to $240,000     local banks
Large-Scale           Over   $400,000  Over 100    Over  $240,000   Foreign In-
vestors, local
banks, BND
23.       Interest Rates.  As a member of the West African Monetary Union
(UMOA), Upper Volta shares a common currency, central bank (BCEAO) and credit
and monetary policy with Senegal, the Ivory Coast, Benin, Togo and Niger.
BCEAO operating guidelines govern interest rates in member countries on
deposits and loans. *At present, rates on loans range from 6-1/2% to a maxi-
mum of 13% per annum. A preferential rate of 6.5% to 8.5% applies on loans
to priority sectors including public sector, small-scale enterprises, and
agriculture. (The BCEAO defines small-scale enterprises to be those locally
owned enterprises with credit outstanding of CFAF 20 million or less.) This
interest rate policy clearly poses difficulties for local intermediaries to
mobilize relatively high cost resources for-on-lending to small-scale enter-
prises. To circumvent this difficulty in specific cases, BCEAO may permit a
derogation from its guidelines or each member state may create an interest
subsidy fund to compensate either the borrower or the intermediary.
Prospects
24.       Given Upper Volta's overall economic situation, the prospects
for industrial development are generally modest. There are, nevertheless,
economically and financially viable possibilities for industrial investment
and employment creation in areas where the country has a comparative advantage,
such as agro-industries. Some encouraging developments have occurred in
processing of skins and hides and the cultivation and processing of vegetables
and fruits for European markets, taking advantage of preferential tariffs
under the Lome Convention. In addition, the potential for import substitution
has not been fully exploited. Paper products, plastic extruding, agricultural
inputs, agricultural implements and fabrication of construction materials
present investment opportunities. For small-scale investments in particular,
opportunities continue to exist in manufacturing of goods for the local market
(furniture, tailoring, metal working), construction and construction materials,
food processing, and-services.



-8-
Institutional Framework
25.       The Ministry of Commerce, Industrial Development and Mining is the
center of policy making for the industrial sector. Other concerned minis-
tries include the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Public Service and
Employment, the Ministry of Rural Development and the Ministry of Plan. The
Ministry of Commerce administers the country's investment Code under which
generous incentives are offered for firms investing in Upper Volta. It is
also working on a supplementary code which is to grant special investment
concessions to small scale enterprises. While no ministry has clear respon-
sibility for formulating small-scale enterprises policies, the Ministry of
Commerce and the Ministry of Public Service and Employment have been the
most active.
26.       The Government program to foster small- and medium-scale enter-
prises in Upper Volta has been carried out by the following institutions:
(a) The National Development Bank (Banque Nationale de Developpement-BND),
a majority Government owned development bank under the Ministry of Finance
which makes loans and also administers a credit guarantee fund for small-
scale enterprises; (b) a public agency for the promotion of Upper Voltan
enterprises (Office de Promotion de l'Entreprise Voltaique OPEV) under the
Ministry of Commerce which offers technical assistance to small- and medium-
scale enterprises, administers an equity participation fund (Fonds de Par-
ticipation) and manages a new industrial estate; (c) the Center for Rural
Artisans (Centre National de Perfectionnement des Artisans Ruraux-CNPAR),
under the Ministry of Public Service and Labor, which provides training and
through a Special Advisory Department (SACs) technical follow-up and credit in
kind to rural and semi-urban artisans.
BND
27.       Established in 1961, BND is a majority Government owned development
bank. It is multipurpose and finances industry, agriculture, commerce,
housing and consumer durables. Since its inception, BND has been the recipient
of financial support from a variety of sources including CCCE, USAID, ADB and
KfW. It acts as a channel for 3 IDA financed projects in the agricultural
sector. BND's authorized capital is CFAF 1.1 billion. Total staff numbers 138
of whom 48 are professionals and two are expatriates. As of September 30,
1976, BND's outstanding loan portfolio amounted to CFAF 14.7 billion, equivalent
to US$60 million, of which approximately 12 percent by amount was for housing,
50 percent for short-term agriculture and commercial credit, and 10 percent
was for industry. In 1976 BND lent 5.7 billion FCFA. Ten percent of this
sum, representing 84 percent of total operations, was for consumer durables
(e.g. cars, mopeds, home appliances). 14.8 percent was for industrial loans
for.commercial operations, large industries, and small-scale enterprise. The
remainder comprises loans for agriculture and housing. BND plans to reduce
the level of its activities in the consumer and housing sector and focus more
on developmental projects in agriculture and small and medium scale industry.
28.       BND administers a small- and medium-scale enterprise guarantee
fund established in 1969 on the basis of the interest rate differential of



- 9 -
a KfW loan passed through the BND. The Fund can guarantee against default
up to 80 percent of loans made by BND and commercial banks. Loans must be
to majority owned Upper Voltan firms with fixed investment under US$100,000.
29.       Financial Performance and Prospects.    BND's profits, after making
provisions, have increased substantially since 1974 and in 1976 amounted
to CFAF 219 million or 15% of average net worth. Assets have also grown
rapidly and amounted to CFAF 16. billion ($65 million) in 1976. Its financial
position is expected to remain sound over the next 5 years and its long term
debt/ equity ratio will remain below the limit proposed of 5:1 for the pro-
posed Credit. Debt service coverage is satisfactory and liquidity sufficient.
Provisions are to be maintained at 4% of outstanding loans. Profits are
adequate, averaging over 12% return on average equity. At the end of 1976
there were 4,500 accounts in arrears by more than one month out of a total
number of 17,000 accounts; however the accounts affected by arrears represent
only about CFAF 1,117 million or 8 percent of BND's outstanding portfolio.
30.       BND is a sound development bank which plays a vital role in Upper
Volta. However, because its staff is thinly spread and relatively inexperi-
enced, in-house training is essential. Particular attention must be paid to
the accounts department and computer operations.
OPEV
31.       OPEV is an independent government agency founded in 1970 under the
auspices of the Ministry of Commerce to stimulate Upper Voltan enterprise. It
has been the recipient of extensive external support from French, German,
American aid agencies and from UNIDO. OPEV's original mandate was to train
Upper Voltans in building trades. This has now been broadened and present
activities include business training courses, project preparation, and indi-
vidual firm follow-up. At the end of 1976 OPEV's staff numbered 64, 38 of
whom are professionals. 17 of the professionals were expatriates. In 1976,
total expenditures (not including expatriate salaries) came to CFAF 37 million
of which 18 million was Government financed. Receipts for services came to
CFAF 12 million, largely charges OPEV levies on services rendered to larger
enterprises (such as architectural renderings). The remainder was provided by
bi-lateral sources. By 1979 receipts will be augmented somewhat by leasing
factory sites at the industrial estate.
32.       OPEV manages an Equity Participation Fund created in 1974 with
a CFAF 49 million grant from the Federal Republic of Germany. *.The purpose
of the fund is to assist small entrepreneurs in establishing a sufficiently
solid equity base to support debt financing. It can provide up to 75 per-
cent of the capital on a single proprietorship and up to 49 percent on a
corporation up to a maximum of CFAF 10 million. The Fund appraises projects
on its own often working in conjunction with BND and CNPAR. In 1976 the Fund
received requests to participate in 33 firms and accepted 9 for a total
of CFAF 16.5 million. Of its available resources the fund has allocated
20 percent for artisanal enterprises, 70 percent for small and medium scale
enterprises and 10 percent for sectoral studies.



- 10 -
33.       OPEV also owns and manages a new industrial estate for small-
and medium-scale enterprises located in-the industrial zone, 5 km out of
Ouagadougou. A CFAF 230 million loan from the West African Development Bank
(BOAD) was signed in February 1977 and will finance preparation of 18 indus-
trial sites, a cooperative artisanal workshop-and an OPEV office. All units
should be installed by end 1978. OPEV will retain ownership of the estate-,
lease production units to enterprises-, and provide technical assistance,
training, and help in securing financing through its on-site office.
34.       For a broadly based technical assistance-agency, OPEV is operating
effectively; however, there are three areas where OPEV could improve its
operations: (i) coordination with other agencies supporting SSE's partic-
ularly in regard to project financing; (ii) on-the-spot follow-up with in-
dividual entrepreneurs; and (iii) training courses in basic business skills.
The proposed project, as explained below, addresses these issues.
CNPAR
35.       Is a-Government-agency established in 1971 under the National
Office for the Promotion of Employment in Ministry of Public Service and
Labor. It was set up with the assistance of ILO and UNDP to train rural
artisans in blacksmithing, well-digging, vehicle and pump repair, brickmaking,
and masonry. CNPAR has a staff of 43 and a professional staff of 12, 7 of
whom are expatriates. Training activities are carried out in Ouagadougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso. CNPAR receives funds from three sources: (i) direct govern-
ment subsidy; (ii) fees for training courses; and (iii) grants from bilateral
and multilateral donors. Government support in recent years has amounted to
about 35 million FCFA per annum which represents about 50 percent of CNPAR's
total budget.
36.       In 1973, CNPAR, with Swiss bilateral assistance, began a mobile
advisory Service d'Assistance, Conseil et Soutien (SACS), to supervise progress
of its graduates, provide them with credit-in-kind and help them market their
output. Three SACS teams maintain regular contact with 346 individual rural
artisans and eight artisanal cooperatives. Credit-in-kind operations have
been financed by a grant of about US$200,000 from the Government of Switzerland.
Loans are made for raw materials, tools and some construction. Credit opera-
tions began in 1974. Total credits approved amount to almost US$77,000. The
average size of a loan has been US$200. Terms have been at 7 percent with
2-1/2 years to repay. Recovery experience cannot be-fully assessed as most of
the loans have been made over the past year but initial experience has been
encouraging with many loans for raw materials purchasing being paid ahead of
schedule.
37.       CNPAR is a highly effective organization, providing technical
assistance, advice on appropriate technology and credit to artisans. As
CNPAR increases its activities however, it will have to pay increased atten-
tion to coordination with other agencies, particularly OPEV, as they have
overlapping functions.



- Ii -
PART IV: THE PROJECT
38.       Preliminary discussions on the proposed project took place with
Government during a Bank Group reconnaissance mission in November 1975.
A small and medium scale enterprise project was identified in February 1976.
39.       The appraisal mission for the project visited Upper Volta
in February, 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington from October 3 to
October 7th, 1977 and completed in Upper Volta on October 20, 1977. The
Upper Voltan delegation was led by H.E. Bertrand Ouedraogo Minister of
Finance. The appraisal report No. 1667a-UV of November 15, 1977 is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Description and Objectives
40.       The proposed project sets out to-provide credit and technical
assistance to Upper Voltan artisans and small- and medium-scale enterprises
relying on 3 primary institutions - BND, OPEV and CNPAR. The specific objec-
tives are:
(i) to provide medium and long term financing through a line
of credit to-the BND for the establishment and expansion
of small and medium scale firms in manufacturing, service,
construction and agro-industries;
(ii) to strengthen BND as a financial intermediary to small
and medium industries;
(iii)  to sustain, expand and diversify on-going technical as-
sistance efforts at OPEV and CNPAR which support artisans
and entrepreneurs;
(iv)  to support initiatives by OPEV aimed at expanding and
diversifying training opportunities for management in
Upper Volta;
(v) to support and enlarge the credit-in-kind program aimed
at rural and semi-urban artisans under CNPAR.
(vi) to review government industrial policies.
(vii)  to assist with staff training at the Department of External
Debt in the Treasury.
The National Development Bank
41.       US$ 2.45 million of the proceeds of the credit will be on lent at
7.9 percent, the current Bank lending rate, to the BND by government to
provide medium and long term financing for fixed investment and permanent
working capital in sound-SME investments. For purposes of this credit small
scale enterprises are defined as those with total assets of less than CFAF 25
million (about US$100,000). Medium scale enterprises are those with total



- 12 -
those with total assets of greater than CFAF 25 million but less than CFAF
100 million (about US$400,000). Enterprises with assets of above CFAF 100
million but below CFAF 125 million will be eligible for refinancing if the
cost per job created by the investment is below the average for the project
($5,000). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (i) no more than 40
percent of the credit will be given to medium scale investment and (ii)
Government will assume the foreign exchange risks. (Categories 13(i) and (ii)
of the Schedule to and Section 3.02 (a) (iii) of the Draft Development Credit
Agreement).
42.       The terms of the BND's subloans will be flexible with a maximum of
15 years and minimum of 2 years. Terms are expected to average seven years
including an average of two years grace. The re-lending rate for all subloans
to medium-scale enterprises will be 11-1/2 percent excluding a documenta-
tion fee and a committment fee of 0.75 percent. For small-scale loans that
are within the central bank's SSE limit of borrowings below CFAF 20 million,
the 8.5 percent ceiling set by the Central Bank will prevail. Government has
agreed to compensate BND for the difference between the interest it is permitted
to charge, 8.5 percent, and its on lending rate, 11.5 percent, through a
subsidy account.
43.       It is expected that BND will finance about 30 subloans with the
$2.45 million line of credit. For medium-scale enterprises, proceeds from the
line of credit would finance 100lpercent of BND's subloans, provided that the
amount refinanced does not exceed 75% of the total cost of the investment to
be financed. For small-scale enterprises, 100 percent of BND's subloans would
be eligible for financing and thus some local costs will be covered under the
line of credit. BND is expected to rollover the funds once. A fixed 15 year
amortization schedule has been used in order to provide BND with additional
resources.
44.       A total of four and one half man years of technical assistance have
been provided to the BND. One and one half man-years are provided for a
computer system expert who will assist with financial management and with the
difficulties experienced as a result of transferring accounts to a Government
owned computer. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that a counter-
part for this position would be appointed by June 1978. (Section 2.12 (c) of
the Draft Project Agreement). One man year is provided for an advisor to
develop and carry out a training program which will train: (i) bank personnel
to implement the changeover to the new computerized accounting system; (ii)
young managers in organizational skills; (iii) upgrade the technical banking
skills of all staff at all levels. Two man years are provided to advise BND's
financial staff on, general accounting, loan collection and disbursement
procedures.
45.       Agreement on the substance of a revised policy statement of BND was
reached at negotiations and BND will present its revised statement to its
Board of Directors for approval in January, 1978. The approval of this
statement is a condition of disbursement of the line of credit to the BND.
(Section 2.02 (a)(ii)(C) of the Draft Development Credit Agreement). Assurances
were received at negotiations that BND's debt/equity ratio would be limited to
5:1 for long-term debt (over one year) and 12:1 for total debt outstanding,
including savings and total Government deposits (Section 3.03 of the Project
Agreement).



- 13 -
OPEV
46.       The proposed project provides assistance to OPEV for project promo-
tion, follow-up and training. OPEV's department for promotion and follow-up
has sufficient expatriate advisors but lacks Upper Voltan Staff. The project
provides six additional local technicians who would be recruited to work in
project follow-up and about 10 trainees each year who will be recruited from
graduates of the local technical college and be engaged in a work-study
program at OPEV. The project also provides for an expatriate training coordi-
nator at OPEV who would, along with two local counterparts to be recruited by
June 1, 1978, assist OPEVs director in recruiting the trainees, designing
their program and coordinating their work sessions. (Section 2.12 (d) of the
Draft Project Agreement). In order to supplement OPEVs ability to sponsor
training courses, funds have been provided to finance short-term consultants
for approximately eight courses and seminars. Courses would be provided to
entrepreneurs, OPEVs trainees and the staff of OPEV, BND and CNPAR. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that Government would maintain its budgetary
support to OPEV. (Section 3.03 (b) of the Draft Development Credit Agreement).
CNPAR
47.       Credit-in-kind.   The Government will grant US$400,000 of the credit
to CNPAR for a revolving fund of credit-in-kind for artisans assisted by SACS
to finance raw materials (wood, metal sheeting, cement), equipment (wheel-
barrows, shovels, axes, saws, molds and other basic tools) and simple buildings.
The opening of an account for this fund is a condition of disbursement for the
portion of the credit allocated to this component (Section 2.02(iv) of the
Draft Development Credit Agreement). The US$400,000 is provided as a grant
because of the pilot nature of the fund and the need to build up its equity
base. In the future, additional resources could be considered on a loan basis
if the operation proves successful. The average loan size is expected to be
US$400 and range from a few dollars to a maximum of US$8,000 for artisanal
cooperatives and US$2,000 for individual artisans. Credit terms will be
flexible depending on the nature of the investment, with grace periods from 6
months to 3 years and terms ranging from I to 10 years depending whether the
loan is for raw materials, tools or construction.- The average term is expected
to be 4 years with 18 months grace. The interest rate to artisans will
increase from 7 percent to 8 1/2 percent in line with BCEAO guidelines for
small-scale enterprises. (Section 2.03(b)(ii)-of the Draft Project Agreement).
48.       Artisan Component.   The focus of this component is those artisans
receiving training from CNPAR and those who are assisted by SACS. The number
of artisans to be supported under the project is estimated to be about one
thousand; at present CNPAR supports 400 trained artisans, and it expects to
train an additional 600 over the next 3 years, including approximately 150 who
will be trained in the urban areas to be upgraded under the urban project.
49.       Technical Assistance.   Five man years of technical assistance will
be provided to CNPAR. Two man years for an assistant to the SACS to help
administer the credit-in-kind operation and two man years for an assistant
to the Director of CNPAR who will coordinate CNPAR's activities under this



- 14 -
project, and one man year for the training of trainers in construction trades.
Short-term consultants in specialized fields, vehicles and equipment will
also be financed. The project will also cover the local costs of additional
administrative and Upper Voltan personnel to be engaged under the project.
Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that Government will maintain
its budgetary support to CNPAR. (Section 3.03(b) of the Draft Development
Credit Agreement.)
50.       Link to Urban. Project.  A portion of CNPAR's skill training will
be decentralized to the two neighborhoods in Ouagadougou and one in Bobo-
Dioulasso selected for upgrading under the proposed urban project. Ini-
tially, in response to the demands generated by the urban project, training
in the construction trades (masonry, brickmaking, metal and woodworking)
will be offered to 10-12 artisans per year in each neighborhood. Later,
training will be diversified into other productive areas (tailoring, weav-
ing) to be specifically identified with the help of consultants. Training
will take place in mobile facilities constructed by CNPAR and as a part
of the training process trainees will construct community centers to be
financed under the urban project (see para. 18).
Coordination
51.       BND, CNPAR and OPEV have agreed to form a committee by January 1,
1978 to ensure coordination of their activities under the project. This
committee will operate under a rotating chairmanship of the directors of the
three institutions and will meet monthly to review general progress and
matters of common interest such as job training efforts, sectoral and market
studies and to deal with policy and institutional questions affecting small
scale enterprises (e.g., incentives and business licensing). (Section 2.10 of
the Draft Project Agreement.) BND and OPEV would establish joint criteria for
judging projects, and routinely review the status of subloans which OPEV would
submit to BND for financing. A convention would be drawn up between BND and
OPEV to formalize this relationship by January 1, 1978 (Section 2.11 of the
Draft Project Agreement). Coordination with the parallel urban project would
be assured by OPEV, CNPAR and BND through a representative they would send to
participate in the coordinating mechanism established under that project.
52.       The project aims to promote the financing of sub-projects which
use relatively labor intensive technologies. At negotiations both BND and
OPEV agreed to work to achieve a target of an average of US$5,000 per job
created for sub-projects promoted and financed under the project. Reducing
average cost per job to this level implies a significant shift in emphasis
as the cost per job created in modern industries in the recent past has
averaged US$10,000.
Support to Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Treasury
53.       An allocation of US$35,000 of the Credit has been made to assist the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry which is the ministry with prime respon-
sibility for policy-making in the industrial sector, to review aspects of the



- 15 -
Government's present industrial policy and to make appropriate recommendations.
It is estimated that a minimum of five man-months of short-term consultancy
would be required to carry out the following: (1) a review of the present
investment incentives system and its impact on the competitive position of
small-scale enterprises that do not generally receive incentives; (2) a study
of the long-run market prospects for SSE in Upper Volta and recommendations
for appropriate incentives; and (3) a review of current methodologies employed
by concerned ministries and agencies to analyze investment proposals and
recommendations for improvements. The results of the study would be re-
viewed with the Bank and an action plan would then be agreed upon. US$25,000
of the Credit has been made available to support a two-year training program
for the staff of the External Debt Department of the Treasury.
54.       Cost Estimates.  The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is
estimated at US$4.4 million. Taxes account for an additional US$.7 million.
The proposed IDA credit of US$4.0 million would cover 90 percent of total
costs net of taxes. Details of cost estimates are in the Credit and Project
Summary.
55.       Monitoring and Evaluation.   The three implementing agencies under
the project would be required to submit to the Bank quarterly operational and
annual reports. For BND, these requirements are covered by normal DFC report-
ing procedures. Operational statements would review OPEV's training, project
preparations and follow-up and CNPAR's training, follow-up and credit-in-kind
activities. OPEV and CNPAR will gather information on artisans and entrepre-
neurs supported under the project. This information would be collected as
routine follow-up visits are made. The results of this information would both
expand our knowledge of the target groups and serve as a measure of the impact
of the technical assistance programs.
56.       Procurement.  The purchase of equipment and goods under the project
is not suitable for international competitive bidding, given the small size
and nature of the subprojects to be financed and goods to be procured. BND,
OPEV and CNPAR would follow local competitive bidding procedures, which are
acceptable to IDA, to ensure that goods and services are suitable and are
reasonably priced.
57.       Disbursement.  BND would follow regular DFC procedures for disburse-
ment. Procedures would be simplified to cater to the special needs of the
credit-in-kind component. CNPAR will retain documentation for the credit-in-
kind program which would be subject to IDA review during supervision. The
Treasury would submit monthly claims for reimbursement against actual expendi-
tures as certified by CNPAR and the BND. The non-credit proceeds of the IDA
credit would be disbursed on the following basis: (i) 100 percent of foreign
or 80 percent of local expenditures for salaries and wages of foreign personnel
totalling US$0.75 million; (ii) 80 percent of local-expenditures for salaries
and wages of local personnel expenditures totalling US$0.22 million; (iii) 100
percent of foreign or 80 percent of local expenditures for passenger cars and
office equipment totalling US$0.08 million; and (iv) 100 percent of foreign or



- 16 -
80 percent of local for operation and maintenance totalling US$0.08 million.
An advance of up to US$55,000 from the project preparation facility was used
to prepare the project. This advance will be refunded upon the effectiveness
of the credit.
Benefits and Justification
58.       The project is expected to increase access of traditional artisans
and small- and medium-scale investors to financing and technical assistance.
Benefits of the project include promotion of local ownership, and development
of local managerial capability. At the same time, the project is expected to
have an impact on employment particularly in urban neighborhoods. It would
also have important institutional building effects on BND, OPEV and CNPAR by
upgrading the quality of their staffs, improving internal organization and
administration, and financial and operational policies. The results of the
proposed study on Government industrial policies are expected to lead to
institutional improvements within the concerned Government ministries, and, in
particular, strengthen project appraisal techniques, rationalize incentives
for large-scale investments and provide appropriate incentives for SSE. By
establishing an average cost per job target for modern sector investment of
US$5,000, the project would result in a shift in emphasis by OPEV and BND to
relatively more labor intensive investments.
59.       Estimates of the direct economic benefits to accrue from the project
are based on the results for the recent ILO study of artisans in Ouagadougou,
BND's and CNPAR's past experience and other available data. The US$2.45
million line of credit to BND is expected to support investments totalling
$3.8 million. With an expected average investment cost per job of $5,000,
the project would therefore generate about 750 jobs or equivalent to 10% of
present employment in the modern manufacturing industries. Annual value added
per employee in modern industries is estimated at $2,000; value-added gen-
erated by the project would therefore be about $1.5 million annually. The
financial rates of return on subprojects are expected to be adequate and
economic rates of return should be larger than financial returns. Some
marginal improvement may result in regional distribution of modern industries
outside of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso. In addition, support to OPEV under
the project for project promotion, follow-up and management training is
anticipated to contribute to increased productivity.
60.       The credit-in-kind, supervision and training of artisans by CNPAR
under the project is expected to generate employment for about 1,500 persons,
assuming an average of 2.4 traditional employees (including the skilled
artisan) for each of the 600 artisans newly trained by CNAPR. Annual value-
added per traditional employee is estimated to be $300; value-added generated
under the project would therefore be about $450,000 annually. CNPAR's past
experience indicates that training on average is expected to double artisanal
revenues.



- 17 -
Risks
61.       The risks that project benefits would not be fully realized are
greatest for: (a) employment generation impact; (b) recovery of funds lent
under the artisanal revolving fund; and (c) coordination of this project with
the parallel urban project. Regarding employment generation, the project in-
cludes two ambitious targets: 1) modern sector job creation at an average cost
of $5,000 per job; and 2) creating approximately 1500 jobs at approximately $200
per job. Attaining the first target implies cutting in half average cost per
job in the modern sector. Based on projects in the pipeline at BND and OPEV
this appears feasible; nevertheless, even if the cost per job target is not
met sub-projects will have positive economic returns. For the informal sector
jobs the risk is not missing the target cost per job (CNPAR/ SACS is already
creating jobs at this level), but being unable to expand operations to reach
the projected number of sub-borrowers. CNPAR's revolving fund may face
unexpected difficulties in loan recovery. Recovery rates to date have been
satisfactory although CNPAR's experience has been over a relatively short
period of time. CNPAR could also encounter difficulties if there would be
significant delays in neighborhood upgrading under the urban project, as the
market for CNPAR supported urban artisans depends in part on investments under
the project.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Upper
Volta and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association
and the Banque National de Developpement (BND), the Office de Promotion de
l'Entreprise Voltaique (OPEV) and the Centre National de Perfectionnement des
Artisans Ruraux (CNPAR), the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft
resolution approving the proposed credit are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
63.       Features of the Development Credit and Project Agreements of special
interest are listed in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effec-
tiveness of the IDA credit are the signing of the Draft Project agreements by
BND, CNPAR and OPEV and the signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between
the Government and BND (Section 5.01 (a) and (b) of the Draft Development
Credit Agreement). A condition of disbursement of the line of credit to the
BND is the approval of BND's revised policy statement by its Board of Directors
(para. 45). A condition of disbursement of the grant to CNPAR is the opening
of an account for the revolving fund (para. 47).
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 1977



ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                   Page 1 of 4 pages
UPPER VOL;A        - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                           UPPER VOLTA       _               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      274.2                                    IEOST %EtEU
AGRIC.     191.3                      1960      1970   ESTIMATE         MALI          MAURITANIA     SENEGAL***
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    50.0*     70.0*       O.OLa*           70. 0     210.0*     21.*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)           4.3       5.4        6.2Lj            6.1         t.2        4.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      18.0      20.0       23. aL            4.0         1.0       22.0
PER 50. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       23.0      28.0       32.07i            12.0        3.0       39.0
VITAL STATISI ICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)        49.6      49.6      48.5              49.6        44.9       47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)         32.7      28.9      25.8              27.8        24.7       24.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)      182.0                                 120.0 ,16.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (fRS)      32.2      35.5      38:.0             37.2        41.0       40.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..       3.2       3.2               3.3         2.9        3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE M               2.6**     2.2       1.8**             2.2         1.8        2.6
TOTAL
URBAN                                  .       4.5       4.6fJb            4.3         S.1        6.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)          9.0      11.3      12.1               12.1       45.3       29.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)                                                                 41.8       41.2
0 TO 14 YEARS                      41.6      43.         .                  .
15 TO 64 YEARS                      55.1      34.0      54.0              43.3         3.1        3.9
65 YEARS AND OVER                    3.3       3.        3                  1
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   0.8       0.9       0.9                1.0        0.8        0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.98L     0.8 a      ..               0.9 AL      1.4La      1.2/a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)                      ..            ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        2500.0    3000.0        ,,             2800.0      360.0     1600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)        92.0      89.0        ..              91.0        85.0       73.0
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)           .         .0b       ..                  -         *-        7.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLOS
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        ..        ..
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        ..        ..
DISTRIBUTION OF LANO OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNEO BY TOP 10X OF OWNERS            ..        ..        ..
r OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS          ..        ..        ..                 ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                ..   92780.0  59570.0            41490.0     t7060.0    16640.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      4370.0/bc 4230.0     4250.0             3960.0     4280.0     2680.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED         1810.07H1670.0/c i170.0Lc              1390.oLb   2760.0Lb    80.00/b
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)        85.0      78.0      78.0               92.0       69.0       97.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             66.0      66.0      59.0/d             69.0       75.0       64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          .,      22.0Q      .,                23.0 c     44,0      28 0/L
DEATH RATE (/THOU: AGES 1-4                       ..            ..                        .           ..
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       8.0      13.0      14.0               20.0       16.0       3B.0/d
SECONDARY SCHOOL                    0.5        t.O       2.0                3.0        2.0       15.
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            13.0      13.0      13.0               12.0       13.0       13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                    21.0      15.0      17.0               40.0         *-        9.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                7.0        ..        ..                 ..       10.0       10.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)               ..         ..        ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                      ..         ..        ..                 ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  ..        ..        ..                ..
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                    ..        ..        ..                 ..         .
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         1.0      16.0       17.0              12.0       47.0       69.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THU POP)           0.4       1.0        2.5               1.0        4.0        9.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           2.0       S.0        9.0              11.0       63.0       73.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               ..        ..        ..                 ..         , .        O.t
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTEs
Unless otherwise noted, dota for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1068 and 1970, and for Most Recant Eatinste bet,..e
1973 sod 1975.
cOGP par capita data are b.aed on the World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
00Due to moig-tion populstion growth rate is lower thsn the rste of natural increass:
000 Senega1 hse bean selected as en objective country for Upper Volta mince its 1970 GNP is about four times thst of Upper Volta a; they both are in
the same geographical aeras (Sahelian region), share a similar monetary system and hsve the sae econoic growth rate in the period 1960-70, sod
have the sane literacy rate of 5-10 percant.
UPPER VOLTA     1960     /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;           /b  1963;     Ic  Including aaaistant nuress;
/d Government hospital establishnment..
1970     I   Ratio of population under 15 sod 65 sod over to total labor force;           /b  to urban areas about 20 percent;        Ic  Governmenot
hospital establishments;       /d  1964-66.
MOlT RECENT ESTIMIATE:     /.   1976;     /b  1970-73;     /c  Government hospital establishments, 1971;         /d  1969-71 average.
MALI             1970    /a  Ratio of population under 15 aod 65 and-over to total        labor force;     /b  Governmnt hospital establishments;         /c   1964-66.
MAURITANIA       1970    /a   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;          lb  Governmnt hospital eatablishments;         Ic   1964-66.
SENEGAL          1970    I   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;           /b  Government hospital eatablialoenta;        /c   1964-66;
Id  Unadjusted;      Ia  Lower secondary level.
R5, September 16, 1977
=~INITI09S 0? sociaL DMICATWS
Land Aces (thou k.2                                                                       Population per surgitg person - Population divided by number of practicing
Total -Total eurf.ce area comprising land area and inland     tacat.                        mlal sod female graduate nurses, 'trainad" or "certifild" nurses , and
usi. Moot recon- os-coat   of agricultural area ued temporarily or Peom-               smelliery peronnel with training orex      rics
nently for crops, pastures, macbat & kitchen gardens or to lis fallow.                  Population per hospital bed - Population divided by n.mber of hospital bdad
available in public and private general and specialisad hospital and
GOfP oar capit. (US$) - GNPl per capita estimates at curment market prices,                 rehabilitation centers; sm:lodes nuring hoses, and aecabliahmenta for
calculated by sam   converion method as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                 custodial and pravamtive care.
1960; 1970 sod 1975 data.                                                               Per capita aupply of calories MP of requiremsents) - Cempuctd fros weargy
equivalent of met food supplies available is co-ntry per capita per day;
Population and vital statistic,                                                             available supplies comprise domestic production, imports lees exports, and
Popul.tion (aid-vase million)    A. of July first:   if not avilable, average               ahuane  is etook; met supplies exclude anima    f.ad,..ecde, quantitiesoooed
of two and-year ascto,sats; lJ60, 1970 and 1975 data,                                     in food processing and loseas is distribution; requiremets were satiated
by PAD based on physiological useds for normal activity and health consid-
Population density -par nooses kos - Mid-year population per square bilamEaor               acing envirommental tamparatura, body msights, age and sex distributions of
(100 hectarn ) of total ares.                                                             population, and allasing 107. for waate at household lavel.
population dens ity   p ar esusre he of agric. land - Computed as above for               per capita supply of romteim (tarm, per day) - Protein content of per capita
.Sricoltura1 land only.                                                                   net eupply of food per day; met supply of food L. defined as above ; require-
ments for all counetries established by USDA Economic Seaesrb Servicas
vital Statistics                                                                            provide for a minimun allowance of 60 gross of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rate per thousand. average - Annual live births per thousand of                  20 grmos of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should he animal
mid-year population; tan-year arithmetic "avrages anding in 1960 end 1970,                protein; these satndards are lInner then those of 75 gems of total protein
and five-year average ending in 1975 for moat recat estimate.                             and 23 geam   of animal protein a. an maerage for the world, proposed by PAD
Crude death rate per tho;,saad. average - Annual dethe poer thousand of mid-year             In the Third World Pond Survey.
popula.tion; ten-year arithmeetic vavrages ending in 1960 and 1970 and fIve-            per capita protein supply fros animal and Pulse - Protein supply of food
year average ending is 1975 for meat recent esttimate,                                    derived frem animals and pulaes in grams per day.
Infant mertality rate f/thou)   A-Anual deaths of infants under one year of age           Death rate f/thou) ages 1-4 - A,owul desthe per thousand in aga group 1-4
per thousnd live birth..                                                                  years, to children in this age group; suggestred ase am indicator of
Life expectancy at birth (yes)   A-Avrage numobar of years of life remaining at             ne1-trition.
birth; usually five-year everags ending In 1960, 1970 sod 1975 for dae-lop-
ing countries.                                                                          Education
Grone reproduction rate - Average number of live daughters a woman will hear               Adlucttad enrollment ratio - primary schol - Enrollment of all ages me per-
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-specific                 cet  raofpmary school-age population; includes children         ged 6-11 years
fertility rates; usually five-year Overages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                 but adjusted for different lengthe of primary eduction; for countries with
for developing coutries.                                                                  univeral education, enrollment may seeed 1001 tince       oem  pupils are below
FPopultion trowth rate(.) - total - Compouned -oua     growth rates of mid-year              or above the official school age.
population f or 1950-60. 1960-70 sod 1970-75.                                            Adlusted anrollsout ratio - secondary achwol - Computed as shows; aseondary
population growth rate (7. - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                      education requires at leaset four years of approved primary instruc tiom;
population; differet definitions of urban are" ney affect cosparability of                 provides general, vocational or teacher training instructionsa for pupils
data among couctrias.                                                                      af 11 to 17 yeare of age; coerespondance courses are generally excluded.
Urban population (1 of total1) - Ratio of urban to total population; different             Year of ah    li1g  rovded (firt and second levels) - Total years of
definitions of urban areas nay affect comparability of data     -ag countries.             ecoolig    at seodaylvel, vctonal Instruction nay he partially or
cempleinly excluded.
Axe structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-aga (15-64 yeas"),               Vocational enrollment (7. of secondary) - Vocational institutions Include
and retired (65 yes-es nd over) as percentages of mid-year population.                     tachnical, industrial or other progrm which operate independently or as
Ane dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to those                 d. prernts of senondry institutionsa.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                   Adult literacy rate (7.) - Literats adults (able to read and write) as per-
Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                  centage of total adult population aged 15 years end over.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 yrear.
Pamily plannina - acceptors (cumoulative. thou) - Cumu,lative numher of acceptors          Hounin
of birth-control devices under auspices of national family plameing progrem              Persons met room (urban) - Average nubor of person     par rooe in occuied
since inception.                                                                           conventional. dwellings in urban erea; dwellings exclude no-permanent
Fanily planning - users C. of married wounem   - Percentages of married wmn of               structures and unoccupied parts.
child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices to all married             Occupied dwellingts without piped water   l- Occupied conventional deellinge
wosn in same age group.                                                                    in urban end rural areas without inside or outside piped water fecilitias
as percetage of all occupied dwellings.
Pasploynet                                                                                 Aecces to electricity C7. of all daelliogsl - Conventional deellinge with
Total labor force (thousand) - Econosically active persons , including armed                 electricity in living quarters as percet of total dwillings In urban and
force  end unemployed but excluding housewives, students, aet. ; definitions               rural areas.
in various countries are not cnnparable.                                                 Rural dwellings cmnected to electricity (7.) - Computed as above for oreml
Labor force. in agriculture (7.) - Agricultural labor force (in faming, forestry,            dwellings only.
hunting and fishing ) as percetage of total labor force.
Unemployed (7. of labor force) -Unemployed are uswlly defined as persona who               Consumption
are able and willing to tabae   job, out of a job on a given day, riasinsd out           PAdio receivers (per thou pop) - All types of receivers for radio broadoeste
of a job, end seeking work for a apecifiad minimux period not exceeding one               to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed receivers
wek; may not be comparable between countries due to different definitions                  in countries and in years when registration of radio seats was in effsect;
of unemployed and source of data, e.g., employment office statistics, sample               data for resnt years say not he comparable amsin     most countries abolished
surveys, cospul.ory unemployment insurance.                                                hcam Ing.
Posse xerar (nec thou pop) - Passenger care cemprse motor care seating
SI-uu distribution - Percentage of privte iccase (both in cash end kind)                    lesstha   eight pe0em; exludes ebulances, hearses sod militar
received by richest 57., richest 207., poorest 207., end poorest 407. of house-            vehicles.
holds.                                                                                   ElectricitY (khtrrv Mar cap) - Anual conusmption of industrial, cmercial,
public sod private electricity in kilowatt hours per capita, generally
Distribution of land ownership- Percentages of land owned by wealthiest lOP.                 besad on production data,    Lithout allowance for loses in grids but allow-
and poorest 107. of land owners.                                                           ing for Importa end ezpeta of electricity.
I5ewsrint (kg/we per ceop - Per capita aunnual comu,option in kilograms
Health and Nutrition                                                                         estimated Eros dcne.stic production plus net Imports of neveprint.
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing
physicians qualified frem a medical school at univerity level.



Annex 1
COUNTRY DATA - UPPER VOLTA                                           Page 3 of 4 pages
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1976: US$110
GROSS NATIONAL  PRODUCT IN 1975                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTI (%. CONSTANT 1968 PRICES)
US$ million         2                      1960-1973            1973-1975
GNP at Market Prices                  629.9          100.00                       2.2                8.2
Gross Domestic Investment             117.0           18.6                        2.6               -2.0
Gross National Savings                 33.7            5.4
Current Account Balance               105.6          -16.8
Exports of Goods, NFS                  81.7           13.0                        2.6                7.6
Imports of Goods, NFS,                240.3           38.2                        3.5               -6.0
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added (Factor Costs)         Lbor Force*
US$ million     % 
Agriculture                                 260.5      44.5                2,830      95.5
Industry                                    110.7      18.9                  45        1.5
Services                                    214.5      36.6                   89       3.0
Total                                       585.7     100.0                2,964     100.0
GOVERNME T FINANCE
General Government
%of GDP
1974     1975         1974   1975
Current Revenues                            15.1     19.6         12.7   14.0
Current Expenditures                        11.8     20.6         9.9    14.8
Current Surplus or Deficit                   3.3     -1.0          2.8   -0.8
Capital Expenditures                         1.3      2.0          1.1    1.4
External Assistance                          0.9      1.7         0.8     1.2
Overall Balance                              2.9     -1.3          2.5   -9.9
MDNEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1971      1972      1973       1974      1975
(CFAF billion at end of year)
Money and Quasi Money                       9.93      9.96      14.62     17.53     21.71
Bank credit to Public Sector               -4.45     -5.14     -6.13      -9.27     -4.90
Bank credit to Private Sector               6.61      7.31       9.16     15.38     20.49
PERCENTAGES OR INDEX NUMBERS
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP          10.8      10.1       14.6     15.7      15.6
General Price Index (1963 = 100)          119.0     123.0      13C.3    148.3     187.2
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                          .        3.4       10.7      8.8      26.2
Bank  credit to Public Sector                .      -15.5      -19.3    -51.2     +47.2
Bank credit to Private Sector                .       19.6       25.3     67.9      33.2
* Staff estimates
Not available
Not applicable                                                                    November 30, 1977



COUNTRY DATA - UPPER VOLTA
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS                           Annex I
(in millions of current US$)                         Page 4 of 4 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                  1973      1974*     1975*         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
Exports of Goods, NFS               57.0       67.7      81.7          (Average of 1972-75)
Imports of Goods. NFS              145.5      166.2     240.3
Resource Gap (deficit   -)         -66.5      -98.5    -158.6          Livestock        17.2              3q.3
Cotton            8.1              18.5
Interest Payments (net)              1.7        1.8       2.0          Groundnuts        6.7              15.3
Workers' Remittances                 30.5      33.6      39.7          All other         11.8             26.9
Other Factor Payments (net)          -4.6      -4.7      -6.0           Total           43.8            -100.0
Net Transfers                        13.5      10.4      17.3
Balance on Current Accounts        -47.4      -57.4    -105.6          EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31.1976
Direct Foreign Investment (net)       2.6       5.0       5.0          Public Debt, incl. guaranteed     247.5
Official Capital Grants             '50.9      53.2      84.2          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt       _
Net MLT Borrowings                    9.1      14.1      18.9          Total outstanding and disbursed    84.4
Disbursements                   (12.1)    (16.7)    (22.5)         DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976
Repayment                       (-3.0)    (.2.6)    (-3.6)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed
Other items 1/                        2.3      -6.7     -10.5          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Change in Reserves (end year)       -18.0      -8.7      +7.0          Total outstanding and disbursed    6.4%
Foreign Reserves (end year)          53.3      74.2      67.5
Fuel and Related Materials                                             IBRD/IDA LENDING, SEPTEMBER 30. 1977
Imports:                                                          Outstanding and Disbursed         28.7
Undisbursed                       51.5
of which: Petroleum             5.4       9.1      12.6          Outstanding incl. undisbursed     80.2
Exports:
of which: Petroleum
RATE OF EXCHANGE
1971:   US$1.00 = CFAF  277.03
1972:   US$1.00 = CFAF  252.21
1973:   US$1.00 = CFAF  222.70
1974:   US$1.00 = CFAF  240.50
1975:   US$1.00 - CFAF  214.32
1976:   US$1.00 = CFAF  245.00
1/ Including errors and omissions
* Staff estimate
Not available
Not applicable                                                                        November 30, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UPPER VOLTA
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(as of October 31, 1977)
(US$ million)
AmourLt    (less cancellations)
Number    Year      Borrower         Purpose              IDA           Undistursed
Three Credits fully disbursed                              5.-
225-UV     1970    Republic of       West Volta Cotton     6.2              0.1
Upper Volta
430-UV     1973     Republic of      Education             2.9              1.5
Upper Volta
431-UV     1973     Republic of      Telecommunications    4.5              0.6
Upper Volta
442-UV     1973     Republic of      Drought Relief        2.0              0.0*
Upper Volta
316-2-UV   1974     Republic of      Roads                 1.3              0.7
Upper Volta
496-UV     1974     Republic of      Bougouriba Agricul-   8.0               4.9
Upper Volta       tural Development
557-UV     1975     Republic of      Livestock Develop-    9.0              8.5
Upper Volta       ment Project
579-UV     1975     Republic of      Rural Roads           7.5              6.5
Upper Volta
640-UV     1976     Republic of      Rural Development     9.4               8.6
Upper Volta       Fund II
653-UV    1976     Republic of       Roads III            20.0              15.5
Upper Volta
706-UV 2/ 1977     Republic of       Agricultural          3.6               3.6
Upper Volta       Development
744-UV 2/ 1977     Republic of       Railway               5.2              5.2
Upper Volta
TOTAL                                               85.4             55.7
of which has been repaid                           -
TOTAL now held by IDA 1/                            85.4
TOTAL undisbursed                                                    55.7
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment of US$0.2 million
2/   Not yet effective
*    US$33,201.53 undisbursed.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of Sept. 30, 1977)
NIL
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 225:    West Volta Cotton Project.   US$6.2 Million Credit of December 30,
1970; Effective Date: May 1, 1971: Closing Date: December 31,
1976 - Extended to December 31. 1977
The project is part of a cotton production development program
in West Volta, which originally started with FAC financing in 1963. It
consists of expansion of cotton cultivation, improvement of yields, credit and
extension services, and provision of better communications and processing
facilities. The project also includes funds for detailed engineering of
secondary roads and preparation of the Bougouriba Agricultural Development
Project, both of which have been completed. The total area under cotton in
1976/77 will be 32,000 ha more than in 1970/71, about in line with appraisal
estimates. However, seed cotton output in 1976/77 is expected to be 38,500
tons higher than that of 1970/71 thus exceeding appraisal estimates of incre-
mental production by 17%. Due to lagging cotton production during early pro-
ject years which were drought years, no additional ginnery was constructed at
Hounde. Good progress was made in the improvement and maintenance of the
feeder road network in the project area.
Credit 316:    Road Project.   US$4.15 Million Credit of June 26, 1972 (As
amended on March 25, 1974); Effective Date: December 31, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project originally comprised: (a) the reconstruction of
the Solenzo-Koudougou (70 km) and Hounde-Bereba (27 km) roads, and (b) feasi-
bility studies for about 400 km of primary roads, and engineering of those
sections found to have the highest priority. Construction of the Solenzo-
Koudougou road began in March 1974 and is now completed. Construction of the
Hounde-Bereba road was deleted from the project as cotton production did
not merit the construction of a ginnery at Hounde and without the ginnery
there was no justification for the road. These funds were transferred to a
drainage works construction component bids for which are expected end
December, 1977. Regarding part (b) out of four proposed roads only two, from
Banfora to Bobo-Dioulasso and from Bobo-Dioulasso to Hounde (a total of 190
km) were selected for feasibility studies as these were the only roads which
showed a preliminary satisfactory rate of return. Construction began on
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors on the progress
of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems which
are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6 pages
the road component of the Third Highway project (Cr. 653-UV) on the basis of
these completed engineering and feasibility studies in March 1977. Due to
currency realignment and to cost overruns on the road construction part of the
project, the dollar cost of the project increased. Consequently, to enable
project completion, on March 25, 1974 the Association approved an increase in
the amount of the credit from US$2.8 million to US$4.15 million.
Credit 430:    Education Project.   US$2.85 Million Credit of September 28, 1973;
Effective Date: June 27, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project was designed to improve the quality and enlarge the
scope of rural education in the ORDs of Dedougou, Koudougou, and Kaya. The
project originally provided for: (a) the construction and equipping of 40
centers, and the equipping of 80 existing centers for the training of young
farmers (CFJAs), (b) the organization, equipping, and servicing of 150 post-
school cooperative groups for young farmers over 18 years of age; (c) the
creation of three rural development training centers; (d) the provision of
science laboratories for 21 secondary schools; and (e) related and supporting
technical assistance for project implementation. The three rural development
training centers were originally provided under the project to train graduates
of rural education centers as rural development agents. However, as project
implementation has been delayed, it is unlikely that graduates will be ready
for further training as rural development agents during the project period.
Therefore the component was deleted from the project, and the funds released
will be used to provide additional support facilities and materials for the
training of rural education instructors and agricultural agents for the group
cooperatives. Physical implementation of the project is about 15 months
behind the appraisal forecast. Construction of the science laboratories is
scheduled for completion by October 1977, with equipment delivery expected
during the fall of 1977. Progress on the rural component has been delayed by
the remoteness of and great distances between sites and by shortages of
critical materials; corrective action under way is expected to enable this
component to be completed by the spring of 1978. Despite the delays the
project is expected to be completed within the budget; no revision of the
closing date is foreseen. This is an innovative project with good local
participation.
Credit 431:    Second Telecommunications Project.   US$4.5 Million Credit of
September 28, 1973; Effective Date: May 23, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Credit was approved on June 21, 1973, signed on September 28,
1973, and became effective on May 23, 1974. This Credit, the second made to
Upper Volta for telecommunications, finances the major part of Upper Volta's
1974-77 telecommunications expansion program. The project comprises provision
of automatic and trunk switching equipment, local distribution networks and
subscribers' apparatus, microwave links, auxilliary construction and equip-
ment, consultantsf services and training of personnel. The executing agency
for the project is-the "Office des Postes et Telecommunications de Haute-
Volta" (OPT), a semi-autonomous public entity. The project execution is on



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6 pages
schedule. All contracts were awarded by the end of 1975, and the project
costs have increased only slightly, mainly for local costs, and the IDA
credit is judged sufficient to cover the project's foreign exchange require-
ments. The financial results for the year ending December 31, 1974 were
satisfactory; however, OPT's financial situation for the years 1975-77 is
projected to deteriorate. OPT has received a loan from Government to help it
restore its cash flow position and finance building costs.
Credit 442:     Drought Relief Project.   US$2.0 Million Credit of December 7,
1973; Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1976 - Extended to December 31, 1977
This is one of six credits made available to the Sahelian
countries to help people in drought affected areas re-establish food self-
sufficiency. In Upper Volta the project is executed by the Rural Development
Fund established under Credit 317-UV. The project originally envisaged four
sub-projects; (i) construction and equipment of 150 tube-wells; (ii) con-
struction of three earth dams; (iii) purchase of road equipment for repair of
feeder roads; (iv) construction of six seed storage warehouses. Procurement
has been completed, but the execution of the tube-well drilling program, the
most important component of the project, began only recently. The delay of
almost one year is due to default by suppliers of vehicle parts and drilling
pipes. Project completion was extended by one year to allow for completion of
tubewell drilling program.
Credit 496:     Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project.    US$8.0 Million
Credit of July 19, 1974; Effective Date: July 18, 1975;
Closing Date: May 31, 1979
The project, to be carried out over a four year period, is
the first major effort to develop the natural and human resources of the
Bougouriba ORD. The project has been ongoing for over two years and, to
date, results have been mixed: while infrastructure improvements (roads,
wells) have shown good progress, agricultural production is lagging and the
project is in need of reorganization of its extension services. Increased
attention must also be given the training and supervision of extension workers.
A follow-up project for the area is presently under consideration.
Credit 557:     Livestock Development Project.   US$9.0 Million Credit of
June 18, 1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project, to be carried out over five years, is a broadly
based program to assist cattle production in the Dedougou and Bobo-Dioulasso
ORDs through group ranch development, the improvement of veterinary services,
livestock marketing, meat processing and the provision of technical assistance.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6 pages
The project is running behind schedule; only the investment programs for the
Project Unit and the animal health component are proceeding as originally
projected; however, planning for the Group Ranch Center, the rehabilitation of
the Bobo-Dioulasso abattoir and the livestock marketing component is suffi-
ciently advanced, that no future slippages are expected to occur with regard
to these three components. Group ranch development has proceeded very slowly;
nevertheless, the site for the first 18,000 ha group ranch has been selected,
and Government has issued the group ranch statute. Bids for construction of
the group ranch center have been sent out and Government has issued the group
ranch statute but the first group ranch has yet to start up. Progress has
been further hampered by the accidental death of the Group Ranch General
Manager. A supervision mission is scheduled for mid-December to access the
situation.
Credit 579:    Rural Roads Project.   US$7.5 Million Credit of August 13. 1975;
Effective Date: February 11, 1976: Closing Date: December 31,
1979
The project, to be carried out over four years, provides for
the improvement and subsequent maintenance of about 1,200 km of rural roads,
and maintenance of about 2,100 km of existing roads, the strengthening of the
Service d'Entretien des Routes Secondaires (SERS) through technical assistance
to the Ministry of Public Works, and the implementation of the above road
program and procurement of highway equipment. All equipment should be
delivered on schedule. Recruitment of local personnel is advancing well.
Terms of reference for an evaluation and impact study have been discussed with
the Government.
Credit 640:    Rural Development Fund II Prolect.   US$9.4 Million Credit
of June 21, 1976; Effective Date: January 24, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project will be carried out over five years (1976/77
through 1979/80), and will provide a line of credit to the Rural Development
Fund (Fonds de Developpement Rural - FDR) for investment in small-scale rural
projects, the main purpose of which would be to increase crop production and
improve village water supplies. Program activities will include: bottomland
development (2,700 ha); erosion control works (9,200 ha); small scale irriga-
tion and improved bottomland development (500 ha); construction of 520 wells,
180 tube-wells, 400 village warehouses and 20 village centers; provision of
medium term credit for agricultural equipment, US$0.5 million equivalent; and
provision for unidentified projects. In addition, studies for economic dev-
elopment of areas freed from onchocerciasis will also be financed under the
project. Staff recruitment and the procurement of vehicles and equipment is
almost complete. The project was slow in getting started due to the shortage
of funds caused by delayed project effectiveness and limited pre-financing
available from Government. These problems have now been overcome and work
targets for the 1976-77 season have on the whole been reached.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6 pages
Credit 653:    Third Highway Project.   US$20 Million Credit of July 15, 1976;
Effective Date: December 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of:   (a) reconstruction of the Banfora-
Bobo-Dioulasso-Hounde road (183 km); (b) procurement of vehicle weight control
and traffic counting equipment; (c) road maintenance study; (d) preinvestment
study of the Ouagadougou-Kaya-Dori road; (e) technical assistance to the
Department of Transport (DOT); and (f) technical assistance to the domestic
contracting industry. Two contracts for the construction of the project
road were awarded in January 1977. The Bobo-Dioulasso-Hounde section is
currently under contruction and should be completed by June 1978. The Bobo-
Dioulasso Banfora section began in October and should be completed in the
spring of 1979. Offers for vehicle weight control and traffic counting equip-
ment are being evaluated. The technical assistance to the DOT has been
in place since January 1977. Offers for the maintenance study have been
evaluated by Government and we are expecting them shortly. Arrangements for
providing technical assistance to domestic contractors have not been finalized.
Offers for the preinvestment study are due in January, 1978.
Credit 706:     West Volta Agricultural Development Project.    US$3.6 million
Credit of May 23, 1977; Effective Date:                   ;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit 744:     Regional Railway Project in the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta
US$5.2 million Credit of Nov. 14, 1977; Effective Date:
: Closing Date: Dec. 31, 1980
This credit is not yet effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
UPPER VOLTA
ARTISAN AND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE PROJECT
Section I: - Timetable of Key Events
(a). Time taken by the country to prepare the.project: one year.
(b) Agencies that prepared the project: BND, CNPAR, OPEV.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank: November. 1975; date
of the first Bank mission to consider the project: February,
1976
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission: February, 1977.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: October 20, 1977
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: February, 1978
Section II:   -  Special Bank Implementation Actions
The project will require close supervision, especially during
the first year, of the revolving fund at CNPAR and the implementation of
the program designed to overcome the backlog in the accounts at the BND.
Section III:   -  Special Conditions
(a) No more than 40 percent of the line of Credit to the
BND will be committed to medium scale investment (para. 41);
(b)  Government will assume the foreign exchange risk of the
line of credit to the BND (para. 41);
(c) A counterpart to the systems expert at the BND will be
recruited by June, 1978 (para. 44);
(d) Two counterparts to the training coordinator at OPEV will be
recruited by June, 1978 <para. 46);
(e) Approval of BNDs revised policy statement by its Board
of Directors (Condition of Disbursement of BND line of
Credit, para 45);
(f) Interest charged to artisans under the revolving fund
at CNPAR will be set at 8.5 percent (para. 47);
(g) Government will maintain its current budgetary support
to CNPAR (para. 49);



ANNEX 1ll
Page 2 of 2 pages
(h) Government will maintain its current budgetary support
to OPEV (para. 46);
(i) BND, CNPAR and OPEV will, by January 1, 1978, form a committee
to ensure coordination of their respective activities under
the project (para. 51);
(j)  A joint convention will be drawn up between BND and OPEV by
January 1, 1978 establishing joint criteria for judging project
which OPEV will submit to BND for financing (para. 51).
(k)  BND's debt/equity ratio would be limited to 5:1 for long-term
debt (over one year) and 12:1 for total debt outstanding
(para. 45).



RE2QUBLIC OF UPPER VOCLTA                                                -*^.                                     -        -
TRANSP~NA'I             SYSTE,M                               \ma,goee
OR ODA A                                                                    '
~~ ~~1 N,cn~~~~oIoke                   G~~~~~ H-     A                            A K o  G   '
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ KXs;)r                                                               -     KOPLS. \
.t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SER                                   LLOno'  <0                  W Pm.
~~~~~I~~~|  V  OARE Y I  Cj OkA{  B''                  LOETEN                                       LISE         N   ~
j  Sindou                                                             ,b\  )  ,,,do!    °            .,   e
6  83K o mpt I  \                  j s                             /          0 .      f w       N s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G  E  R  z
i   . -  ~t T F   i.,. 
O~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~  ~   ~~    ~~~~J                   BAR T .  o  0  5sAoGHOE              EOEXUvC L    g ej~      / 



