Report No. 1667b-UV
Upper Volta: Appraisal of an FILE COPY
Artisan, Small and Medium
Scale Enterprise Project
August 19, 1977
Western Africa Projects Department
Industrial Development and Finance Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
m
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may he used hy recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
US$ 1 - ÇFAF 245
The CFA (Communaute Financiere d'Afrique) Franc is fixed with respect to
the French Franc (1 FF = CFAF 50) and floats with respect to the US dollar.
In this report the following conversion has been used:
US$ 1 = CFAF 245
CFAF 1 million = US$4,082
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       African Development Bank
AFCOPA    Association Francaise de Formation, Cooperation, Promotion
et Animation d'Entreprises
ARCOMA    Atelier Regional de Construction de Materiel Agricole
BCEAO     Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Ai-rique de l'Ouest
BICIA     Banque Internationale pour le Commerce, l'Industrie et
l'Agriculture
BIV       Banque Internationale des Voltas
BND-HV    Banque Nationale de Developpement - Haute Volta
BOAD      Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement
CAISSTAB  Caisse de Stabilisation du Prix des Produits Agricoles
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CEAO      Communaute Economique de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
CNDI      Caisse Nationale des Depots et Investissements
CNPAR     Centre National de Perfectionnement des Artisans Ruraux
DEG       Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft:
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et Cooperation
FED       Fonds Europeen de Developpement
ILO       International Labor Organization
KfW       Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
OPEV      Office de Promotion de l'Entreprise Voltaique
ORD       Office Regional de Developpement
SACS      Service d'Assistance, Conseil et Soutien
SME       Small and Medium Scale Enterprise
SSE       Small Scale Enterprise
UMOA      Union Monetaire de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
UNIDO     United Nations Industrial Development Organization
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF AN ARTISAN AND]
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
UPPER VOLTA
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY  ...... ...........    ......                  O..................................  i-  iv
I.    INTRODUCTION  ........  ............................................
II.   THE  SETTING  ................                  ;      .
Economic Structure and Performance  .......................                                    1
The  Industrial  Sector  . ............. .... . .              ...............                 3
Government Industrial Policies  ...........................                                    4
The Financial  System  . ... O... ... ....... ........ ..   ..........  . .........            5
Prospects                ................................................                      6
III. THE  INSTITUTIONS  .......................................................                        7
Banque Nationale  de Developpement  (BND)  ..................                                  7
Office  de Promotion  de  l'Entreprise  Voltaique  (OPEV) ......                              il
Centre National de Perfectionnement des Artisans
Ruraux  (CNPAR)  ........ .         .0........ ...............................             13
IV.   THE PROJECT  ..................................................                                15
Main Features  .........................................................                      15
Project Cost and  Financing  ...                   ............................               20
Organization  and  Implementation  ..........................                                 21
Benefits and Justification  ...............................                                   24
V.    RECOMMENDATIONS  .......... .   ...................................  ......                    25
This report was prepared by Mr. Robert E. Hindle and Ms. Myrna L. Alexander
on the basis of their mission to Upper Volta in February 1977.
|  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniy in the performance
o of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



LIST OF ANNEXES
1.       Upper Volta:  Industrial Production and Value Added
2.       Upper Volta:  The Financial System
3.       BND:  Board of Directors
4.       BND:  Organization Chart
5.       BND:  Summary of External Borrowings
6.       BND:  Summary of Operations
7.       BND:  Income Statements
8.       BND:  Balance Sheets
9.       BND:  Assumptions for Financial Projections
10.       BND:  Projected Balance Sheets
.11.      BND:  Projected Income Statements
12.       BND:  Projected Cash Flow
13.       BND:  Industrial Project Pipeline
14.       BND:  Actual and Projected Financial Ratios
15.       OPEV:  Organization Chart
16.       OPEV:  Equity Participation Fund
17.       OPEV:  Ouagadougou Industrial Estate
18.       UPPER VOLTA:  Summary of Urban Project
19.       SME Project:  OPEV Estimated Costs
20.       SME Project:  CNPAR Estimated Costs
21.       SME Project:  Terms of Reference for Study of
Government Industrial Policies
22.       SME Project:  Technical Assistance Terms of Reference
23.       Estimated Disbursement Schedule



SUMMARY
1.        This report recommends an IDA Credit of US$4 million to provide
technical assistance and financing to Upper Voltan artisans and modern sec-
tor small and medium scale enterprises. Medium and long term financing to
modern sector SME would be provided by Banque Nationale de Developpement
(BND) while training and follow-up to modern sector entrepreneurs would be
provided by the Office de Promotion de l'Entreprise Voltaique (OPEV). The
Centre National de Perfectionnement des Artisans Ruraux (CNPAR) trains and
provides credit-in-kind to rural and urban artisans. The technical assistance
to BND, OPEV and CNPAR will help these organizations improve their ability
to promote and support local enterprises and to the Government to review
industrial development policies and to monitor and facilitate disbursements
under IDA credits. The project has been designed to complementl World Bank
Group activities in the urban sector. t
Background
2.        Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy in Upper Volta.  Industry
and construction account for only a small share of gross domestic production
but have been growing rapidly. The industrial sector can be broadly separated
into traditional artisans who are generally illiterate, outside the legal
system, use unsophisticated technologies, and serve local markets, and modern
sector enterprises which use formal accounting systems, have permanent facili-
ties, use stable marketing channels and can have professional management.
Government estimates indicate that traditional artisans account for about half
of industrial output and an even greater share of the sector's value-added.
Major activities are food processing, textiles, miscellaneous manufacturing
and construction. Employment in modern manufacturing is small; there is no
estimate of employment in traditional activities.
3.        For purposes of the project, the following definitions have been
applied to distinguish between traditional and modern sector enterprises:
Term
Assets               Credit           Employment
$                    $
Traditional                    up to 3,000          up to 2,000      up to 10
from 3,000           from 2,000       from 1l
Small-scale                    to 100,000           to  60,000       to   30
from 100,000         from 60,000      from 31
Medium-scale                   to   400,000         to  240,000      to  100
Large                          over 400,000         over 240,000    over 100
Project Features
4.        The proposed credit of $4 million will support the following:
(1)  a line of credit of $2.45 million to BND to finance
about thirty-two modern small and medium scale in-
vestments in manufacturing, construction and
agro-industries;



- ii -
(2) an allocation of $250,000 for technical assistance to BND
to strengthen its financial and information systems and
to undertake staff training;
(3) assistance of $420,000 to OPEV to expand its project
preparation and supervision efforts and to support
OPEV's initiatives in management training;
(4) assistance of $420,000 to CNPAR to expand its skills
training program for rural artisans to include urban
artisans, and to strengthen its follow-up and super-
vision operations;
(5)  a permanent revolving fund of $400,000 established at
CNPAR to provide urban and rural artisans and coopera-
tives with credit-in-kind; and
(6) assistance of $60,000 for the Government to finance a
study of industrial policies and to the external debt
division of the Treasury.
Detailed Terms
5.        BND would be the recipient of $2.7 million which would
be lent to BND by the Government at the prevailing Bank interest rate. Re-
payment from BND would be over fifteen years including three years grace in
equal semi-annual installments. BND would on-lend $2.45 million as a line
of credit: on-lending terms to sub-borrowers are 11 1/2% per annum and a
maximum term of fifteen years (average term expected is eight years with
two years grace). The foreign exchange risk would be assumed by the Gov-
ernment.
6.        On-lending to small-scale sub-borrowers at Il 1/2% under the
project presents difficulties given current interest rates in Upper Volta.
According to central bank regulations, interest charged small-scale
borrowers (defined by the central bank as those with credit outstanding
below CFAF 20 million) is fixed at a maximum of 8 1/2% p.a. In order
to ensure that BND's spread is the same for loans to both small and medium
scale borrowers the Government would reimburse BND for the difference be-
tween 11.5% and 8.5% for all loans affected by the central bank interest
rate ceiling for small scale borrowers.
7.        $1.24 million of the proposed Credit would be provided to OPEV
and CNPAR by the Government as grants. The revolving fund of $400,000 ad-
ministered by CNPAR would be adequate to provide about one thousand arti-
sans with credit-in-kind. Credit would be available for raw materials,
equipment and construction of workshops.  Interest rate charges to artisans
would be 8 1/2% p.a.; terms would be flexible and are expected to average four
years including eighteen months grace.



- iii -
8.        The remaining $60,000 would finance a study to be carried out by
short-term consultants for the Ministry of Commerce, Industrial Development
and Mines to review Government industrial policies, with specific emphasis
on incentives offered large and small investors, and project appraisal tech-
niques used by Government, and would pay for a training program of local
staff in the external debt division of the Treasury.
The Institutions
9.        BND is a majority Government owned development bank established
in 1961. It is multipurpose and finances industry, agriculture, commerce,
housing and consumer durables. It grants loans, takes equity participations
and manages a credit guarantee scheme for small scale borrowers. As of
September 30, 1976, its outstanding loan portfolio amounted to CFAF 14.7
billion, equivalent to $60 million, of which approximately 12% by amount
was for housing, 50% for short-term agricultural and commercial credit, and
10% for industry. The institution's financial position is strong. It has
built up provisions and reserves amounting to 8% of its portfolio. Net profit
in 1976 amounted to CFAF 219 million ($900,000) equivalent to 15% of average
equity. At present, BND is encountering difficulties in conversion of its
accounting records to a computerized system. In order to assist in recti-
fying this problem, the project provides for four and one-half man-years of
expatriate assistance in computer systems and accounting, and for training of
BND's staff.
10.       OPEV was formed in 1970 as an independent agency under the Ministry
of Commerce, Industrial Development and Mining to promote local enterprises.
Its original focus was on the construction industry where, with the help of
French bilateral aid, it provided technical and managerial assistance to con-
tractors. Since then, it has expanded the scope of its operations to in-
clude promotion of projects in other branches of industry, management train-
ing, an industrial estate, and an equity participation fund.
11.       CNPAR was established in 1971 with ILO support as an independent
agency under the Ministry of Public Service and Labor. It carries out basic
skill training of rural artisans and, through its Service d'Assistance, Con-
seil et Soutien (SACS) operation, provides artisans with follow-up advice
and credit-in-kind.  CNPAR also manufactures farm implements under the finan-
cially autonomous ARCOMA operation.
Project Benefits
12.       The project is expected to generate considerable economie and
social benefits to Upper Volta. Based on rough estimates, the project will
support productive investments totalling over $4.2 million, create direct
employment for about 2200 persons (1450 among traditional artisans and 750
in modern enterprises) and contribute about $2 million in value-added per
annum ($500,000 among traditional artisans and $1.5 million in modern en-
terprises). Institutionally, the project would strengthen the ability of
the local agencies to carry out their roles in fostering local entrepre-
neurship by upgrading the quality of their staffs, internal administration and
policies. The results of the proposed study on Government industrial policies



- iv -
would lead to institutional improvements in appraising investment proposals
and would help the Government rationalize its incentives system particularly
as it affects small scale enterprises and traditional artisans. The project's
impact on traditional artisans is expected to be significant by expanding and
diversifying the technical assistance and credit facilities offered rural and
urban artisans in Upper Volta.
13.       Subject to the conditions listed in Section V, the project is suit-
able for an IDA Credit of US$4 million equivalent on standard IDA terms.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Recognition of the need for a small and medium-scale enterprise
(SME) project in Upper Volta came from a number of different sources. Early
discussions took place with Government officials during a reconnaissance
mission in 1975. This was followed shortly by the appraisal of the Third
Highway project which identified the need to provide local contractors with
financing and technical assistance. Concomitantly, preparation was under-
way to continue work started under an UNDP-financed pilot urban project in
Ouagadougou. The DFC and Urban Departments undertook joint identification
and preparation of an urban and a SME project in February 1976. An appraisal
mission for the SME project visited Upper Volta in February 1977. This re-
port sets out the findings of that mission and recommends an IDA credit of
$4 million for financing and providing technical assistance to Upper Voltan
artisans and small and medium-scale enterprises.
1.02      Objective.  The principal objectives of the proposed credit are
(1) to provide medium- and long-term financing for the establishment and ex-
pansion of artisans and small- and medium-scale firms in manufacturing, con-
struction and agro-industries; (2) to expand and diversify on-going techni-
cal assistance efforts in support of artisans and entrepreneurs; (3) to
support initiatives aimed at enlarging management training opportunities
in Upper Volta; and (4) to strengthen the managerial and technical abilities
of local institutions, specifically, the Banque Nationale de Developpement
(BND), Office de Promotion de l'Entreprise Voltaique (OPEV), and Centre
National de Perfectionnement des Artisans Ruraux (CNPAR). The project has
been designed to complement the Bank's involvement in the urban sector.
II. THE SETTING
Economic Structure and Performance
2.01      Economic development in Upper Volta has been hampered by the coun-
try's modest resource base, harsh physical conditions, and the inequitable
distribution of its population. As a result, its performance has been mar-
ginal and Upper Volta is classified as one of the least developed countries
in the world. 1/ Real per capita income for Upper Volta's population of
six million was estimated to be about $110 in 1976. Economic growth has
averaged 2.3% in real terms during the period 1965-1974, only marginally
keeping pace with population growth estimated at 2.1% per annum. Modest
recovery has been experienced since the devastating impact of the Sahelian
drought as GDP in real terms increased by 7% and 5% respectively in 1975 and
1976. 2/
1/   The latest economic report on Upper Volta, report number 564a-UV,
was distributed to the executive directors July 7, 1975. An updating
economic mission visited Upper Volta in April/May 1977.
2/   IMF staff estimates.



- 2 -
2.02      Agriculture and livestock are the mainstays of the economy and
account for an average of about 40% of GDP and over 80% of exports. These
activities sustain 90% of the population. The following table provides a
breakdown of gross domestic product for 1974 and 1976 by sector.
Table 1: Gross Domestic Product
(billion CFA francs at current market prices)
1974          %        1976 1/       %
Agriculture                           33.6          28.4      36.7         23.7
Livestock and Forestry                15.7          13.3      16.3         10.6
Industry and Construction              7.2           6.1      11.5          7.4
Services                              28.0          23.6      36.5        23.6
Other, including Government           33.9          28.6      53.6         34.7
Total                            118.4         100.0    154.6        100.0
2.03      The increase in oil prices, global inflation, and crop failures have
had a major inflationary impact on Upper Volta. Prior to 1973, the consumer
price index showed an average annual increase of about 2.5% in the previous
seven years. Although only limited current price data are available, price
inflation was estimated to have averaged 20% in 1974 and 15% in 1975. Pros-
pects for inflation in Upper Volta point to a rate of about 10% in 1977,
declining thereafter to 7-8%. 2/
2.04      Investment continues at a relatively low level averaging about
10% of GDP. A breakdown of investment by sector is presented in the follow-
ing table. Increasingly, Government surpluses are being channeled into de-
velopment projects, following the creation of the Caisse Nationale des
Depots et des Investissements (see para 2.15). Given the low level of income,
however, private domestic savings are small and investment is largely financed
by Government savings and foreign sources.
1/   IMF staff estimates.
2/   BCEAO staff estimates.



- 3 -
Table 2:  Investment in Period 1972-1974
(billion CFAF francs)
Amount           %
Primary Sector                                    7.4             17
Industry                                          9.1             21
Infrastructure                                   19.8             45
Education and Health                              2.0              5
Others, including Services                        5.2             12
Total                      43.5            100
2.05      The Government is at a preliminary stage in preparing its third
development plan covering the period 1977 to 1981. As in the past two plans,
priority will be placed on increasing output in the agricultural sector. One
of the Government's major preoccupations is to maximize the country's economic
potential through internal migration from overpopulated areas to areas where
land is more fertile and onchoceriasis has been eradicated, and by promoting
labor intensive agricultural production. Other efforts are aimed at expand-
ing, hitherto limited, employment opportunities in the urban centers. With
regard to the industrial sector, the plan's aim is to continue to place pri-
ority on industries utilizing local raw materials. The Government recog-
nizes the importance of promoting local small-scale enterprises; investment
proposals to be included under the plan are still to be prepared.
Industrial Sector
2.06      While industry and construction account for only 7% of GDP, this
sector has been one of the most dynamic, averaging real growth of 12% per
annum from 1968 to 1972, as several large-scale agro-industries (cotton
processing, sugar refinery, and oil processing) came into production. In-
dustrial activities in Upper Volta are undertaken by two basic types of
businesses -- traditional artisans and modern-sector enterprises. While
no clear cut definition can be applied, the distinction between the two
groups reflects basic, largely sociological, differences. Artisans are
generally illiterate, use unsophisticated technologies, function outside
the legal system, are widely dispersed and serve local markets. Modern
sector enterprises, on the other hand, use formal accounting systems, have
permanent facilities, use stable marketing channels and may have profes-
sional management.
2.07      For purposes of this project, the following definitions are con-
sidered representative:



-4-
Long-Term
Assets          Credit         Employment
Traditional Artisans           up to $3,000      up to $2,000      up to 10
from $3,000       from $2,000       from 11
Small-scale modern             to $100,000       to  $60,000       to   30
from $100,000    from $60,000       from  31
Medium-scale                    to   $400,000    to  $240,000       to   150
Large-scale                    over              a over             a over 100
2.08      A survey of modern industrial enterprises in 1972 enumerated 63
medium- and large-scale firms. Although not surveyed it is estimated that
there are numerous modern small-scale enterprises and traditional artisans.
As shown in Annex 1, the primary branches of industry are food processing,
metal working, textiles and construction. The most important activity for
both traditional and modern enterprises :Ls food processing followed by con-
struction. Most modern firms are located in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso,
the country's major urban centers, while most traditional artisans are
located in rural areas. Out of an economically active population of about
three million, only 7,800 persons are estimated in 1975 to be engaged in
modern manufacturing and agro-industries. No estimate is available for
traditional artisans or other branches of industry.
2.09      Construction.  Construction activities are estimated to contribute
substantially to the industrial sector's output and value added, largely for
construction of private domiciles. LocaL participation in the construction
industry, particularly for civil works, is at an early stage of development.
Only four local contractors have been involved in minor civil works, supply
of materials and some irrigation works. There are about seven larger Upper
Voltan construction firms, a number of smaller firms and numerous informal
businesses primarily engaged in the house building sector. Most large scale
civil works are performed by expatriate firms. Through closer ties between
OPEV, which provides technical assistance to contractors, and BND, which
provides financing, along with technical assistance to this sector provided
under the Third Highway Credit, the bottlenecks to development of the local
construction industry can be overcome. 1/
Government Industrial Policy
2.10      The focus of the Government's development effort has justifiably
been the agricultural sector. It has, nevertheless, recognized the impor-
tant linkages between agriculture and industry and oriented its industrial
strategy toward the promotion of large-scale agro-industries such as sugar
refining, cotton processing and leather tanning. The Government has also
supported the development of import substitution industries and generally
1/   See Report numbered P-1873-UV, dated June 18, 1976 for description
of the Third Highway Credit (653-UPV).



encouraged local entrepreneurship. Since 1975, it has required a minimum of
51% Voltan ownership in priority sectors such as banking, insurance companies,
electricity, water and fuel distribution. For all other industrial, commer-
cial and agro-industrial enterprises, a minimum of 35% is required. On a
regional level, Upper Volta's industrial strategy is to be harmonized with
that of its neighbors through membership in the Communaute Economique de
l'Afrique de l'Ouest (CEAO) which is in the process of setting common external
tariffs.  As its primary means of promoting industrial development, the Gov-
ernment offers incentives (exemptions on import duties and taxes and tariff
protection) under the Investment Code of 1970. The Government has become
aware of the potential inefficiencies of its incentives system and has under-
taken to revise the Code. A supplementary code is also to be devised to grant
special investment concessions to small-scale enterprises.
2.11      Institutional Framework.  The Ministry of Commerce, Industrial De-
velopment and Mining is the center of policy making for the industrial sector.
Other concerned ministries include the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of
Public Service and Employment, the Ministry of Rural Development and the
Ministry of Plane While no ministry has clear responsibility for formulating
SME policies, the Ministry of Commerce, Industrial Development and Mining and
the Ministry of Public Services and Employment have been the most active.
2.12      Given the early stage of development of the industrial sector in
Upper Volta, Government policies and institutions dealing with the sector
are still evolving. This is particularly true for Government policies
affecting small-scale enterprises. The recent economic mission, which
visited Upper Volta in April/May 1977, identified several areas where more
detailed study is warranted to assist the Government in rationalizing and de-
veloping further its approach to the industrial sector. Specific issues
that need to be addressed include the present investment incentives system,
its cost to Government and its impact on the competitive position of small-
scale enterprises, the market potential of SSE in Upper Volta, incentives
to promote SSE, and the methodology to be applied by Government in apprais-
ing investment proposals that considers the economic merits of the invest-
ment as well as its technical and financial viability.
The Financial Sector
2.13      As a member of the West African Monetary Union (UMOA), Upper
Volta shares a common currency, central bank (BCEAO) and credit and mone-
tary policies with Senegal, Ivory Coast, Benin, Togo and Niger. BCEAO,
under its operating guidelines, establishes credit ceilings and controls
outstanding credit through its rediscount facility.
2.14      Interest Rates.  BCEAO operating guidelines govern interest rates
in member countries on deposits and loans. At present, rates on loans range
from 6 1/2% to a maximum of 13% per annum.  A preferential rate of 6.5% to
8.5% applies on loans to priority sectors including public sector, small-
scale enterprises, and agriculture. (The BCEAO defines small-scale enter-
prises to be those locally owned enterprises with credit outstanding of



- 6 -
CFAF 20 million or less.) This policy clearly poses difficulties for local
intermediaries to mobilize relatively high cost resources for on-lending to
small-scale enterprises. To circumvent this difficulty in specific cases,
BCEAO may permit a derogation from its guidelines or each member state may
create an interest subsidy fund to compensate either the borrower or the
intermediary. In the case of Upper Volta, the Ministry of Finance has
agreed to subsidize BND's operations to firms falling under BCEAO's interest
rate ceiling for small scale enterprises.
2.15      The Banking System.  In addition to BND, which does long-term as
well as short-term financing, there are two commercial banks which are ex-
clusively for short and medium term, largely for agriculture and commerce.
An institution of growing importance is the Caisse Nationale des Depots et
des Investissements (CNDI) which was created in 1973 to act as the Govern-
ment's channel for investments in productive sectors as well as for public
infrastruture. A more detailed description of the financial sector, BCEAO
policies and banking institutions is contained in Annex 2.
Prospects
2.16      Given Upper Volta's overall economic situation, the prospects
for industrial development are generally modest. There are, nevertheless,
economically and financially viable possibilities for industrial investment
in areas where the country has a comparative advantage (such as agro-
industries) and where employment creation can be stimulated. Some encourag-
ing developments have occurred in processing of skins and hides and the
cultivation and processing of vegetables and fruits for European markets
taking advantages of preferential tariffs under the Lome Convention.  In
addition, the potential for import substitution has not been fully exploited.
Paper products, plastic extruding, agricultural inputs, agricultural imple-
ments and fabrication of construction materials present investment oppor-
tunities. For small-scale investments, in particular, opportunities con-
tinue to exist in manufacturing of goods for the local market (furniture,
tailoring, metal working), construction and construction materials, food
processing, agricultural implements and services.
2.17      The bottlenecks to industrial development in Upper Volta are
not easily overcome. Fundamental are the lack of human skills, particu-
larly, technical and managerial staff, and deficiencies in basic infra-
structure such as transportation, electricity and water. Owing, in large
part, to the lack of basic education, most local entrepreneurs require
assistance at all stages of planning their investments, during implemen-
tation, and in improving operations. Needs are particularly great in
carrying out feasibility studies, pre-investment design, choice of equip-
ment and, later, in determining prices, marketing output, training staff
and maintaining quality control. For small-scale entrepreneurs and arti-
sans, these problems are compounded by their limited access to institutional
sources of finance. Rural artisans are especially isolated from credit
and ready access to inputs and market outlets. While the Government's
industrial policies and programs are intended to support local entrepreneurs,



- 7 -
these policies very often have difficulty in reaching the least sophisticated
largely owing to staff and financial limitations and administrative com-
plexity. Under the project, these bottlenecks can be relieved by increas-
ing access of artisans and entrepreneurs to credit on suitable terms and
by expanding the ability of local institutions to provide a greater number
of artisans and entrepreneurs with needed assistance and training. In
addition, improved coordination among institutions under the project
should result in a more concerted effort to resolving problems faced by
small-scale investors.
III. THE INSTITUTIONS
Banque Nationale de Developpement (BND)
3.01      BND has a broad mandate and undertakes a wide variety of operations.
In addition to development banking, which still plays a relatively minor role
in its operations, BND does extensive commercial banking. It accepts deposits
as well as makes loans for consumer durables, commerce, housing, agriculture,
industry and for other purposes. BND's loans are short term (up to 2 years),
medium term (2-10 years) and long term (over 10 years). It also makes equity
investment. Since its inception, BND has been the recipient of financial
support from a variety of sources including CCCE, USAID, ADB and KfW.  It
currently acts as a channel for credit under three IDA financed projects in
the agricultural sector. Although faced with important institutional prob-
lems, particularly related to accounting, computer operations and a lack of
experienced staff (described below), BND is a sound development bank, which
plays a vital role in Upper Volta.
3.02      Ownership.  BND was established in 1961 with a share capital of
CFAF 355 million. Its authorized capital was increased in January 1975
to CFAF 1.1 billion and several new shareholders have taken participations.
All capital has been fully paid in except for the Government's portion which
is to be paid in by end 1977.
Table 3: BND: EQUITY OWNERSHIP
(CFAF Million)
Original                     Current           (2/28/77)
Shareholder              Subscription               Subscription       Total Paid-in
Amount    %               Amount    %             Amount
Government               223        63              600       55            413
CCCE                     100        28              100        9            100
BCEAO                     32         9              100        9            100
DEG                       -          -              100         9            100
CAISSTAB                             -              100         9            100
CNDI                      -          -              100         9            100
355      100             1100       100            913



- 8 -
3.03      Board of Directors.  There are twelve seats in BND's Board.  (See
Annex 3). Seven seats are reserved for senior civil servants and five seats
are reserved for non-government shareholders. Directors have not as yet been
appointed by DEG, CNDI and CAISSTAB. BND's Board represents a diverse number
of viewpoints and it takes an active and constructive role in setting policy
and approving loans. An executive committee, consisting of five Board mem-
bers, has been delegated authority to approve loans and to take day-to-day
decisions.
3.04      Organization and Staff.  In addition to BND's head office and main
branch in Ouagadougou, there are branches or agencies in Bobo-Dioulasso,
Banfora and Koudougou. Annex 4 presents BND's current organizational struc-
ture which was revised by BND's Director General in 1975 to separate bankwide
administrative services from branch credit operations.
3.05      BND's Director General is an able ex-commercial banker.  He has made
progress in upgrading the institution since 1975 but is still confronted with
many administrative problems. The total staff of BND amounts to 138 of which
48 are professionals. The professional staff is of high calibre but thinly
spread, relatively young and inexperienced. The projects department which
appraises large- and medium-scale investments is staffed with two Voltan
professionals. The Director General recognizes the need to improve his staff
through training and career planning.
3.06      At present time there are two expatriates at BND.  A Caisse Centrale
de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) financed advisor, who has concentrated on
BND's computerized accounting system, will be leaving in December 1977 and
will not be replaced by CCCE. A German financed engineer recently arrived for
a three-year period to assist the Project Director to improve project follow-
up.
3.07      Training.  Specific training needs for BND's staff were identified
during appraisal by a consultant. First, there is an immediate need to train
bank personnel to implement the changeover to a new computerized accounting
system. In the longer-term young middle managers must be trained in ways to
motivate their staff and to enable them to assume greater responsibility.
Finally, technical banking skills of staff at all levels should be upgraded.
3.08      Policies and Operating Guidelines.  BND's operating policies and
guidelines, although generally acceptable, require updating. This is neces-
sary owing to a reform of BCEAO regulations and to remedy certain defici-
encies in BND's policies that have become apparent. In particular, improve-
ments are necessary to ensure competitive bidding for subprojects, to limit
BND's exposure in any one firm and to restrict BND taking over the management
of firms directly. BND's management recognizes that changes are needed in
these specific areas, and agreed to submit to its Board by January 1978,
revised operating guidelines acceptable to IDA.
3.09      Foreign Exchange Risk.  BND's policy statement does not permit
it to carry the foreign exchange risk on its borrowing and it seeks to pass
this risk on to sub-borrowers. The Government has not carried the risk on
any of BND's previous foreign loans and in the case of the KfW loan sub-
borrowers have been unenthusiastic about using foreign denominated resources.



- 9 -
3.10       Strategy.  For its broad policy guidance BND has a well conceived
five year plan which was prepared in 1975. Based on this plan, BND expects
to continue to broaden its sources of funds. It intends to move gradually
away from consumer durable and housing lending in order to concentrate more
fully on priority development projects in industry and agriculture. In terms
of organization, BND plans to introduce a new centralized project follow-up
department and to centralize legal services and loan recovery to improve loan
collections. It plans to recruit additional staff, including two engi-
neers, to strengthen technical aspects of project appraisal. This is
especially important if BND is to recommend to promoters alternative pro-
duction techniques which could add to employment creation.
3.11      Procedures.  Project appraisal at BND is carried out at two dif-
ferent levels, depending on the size of the project. Large agricultural
and industrial investments (over CFAF 20 million) are reviewed by the central
Project Department at headquarters while smaller ones, mostly those for SSE,
housing and consumer durables are taken care of by the Ouagadougou branch.
Appraisals are generally satisfactory. Those for large investments are
thorough and include calculation of financial rates of return. Those for
small investments, although condensed, include all relevant information. For
project follow-up BND is less well served. Although a clear procedure exists
for visting firms periodically, these visits are not regularly carried out
unless the borrower is in serious trouble. BND is making serious efforts to
improve in this area.
3.12      Disbursement and procurement procedures are generally adequate.  For
consumer durable lending BND disburses to the supplier directly upon its re-
quest. For industrial loans BND disburses only after verification of prices
and work performed. For larger borrowers which import directly BND oversees
procurement to ensure that the best equipment is obtained at the most reason-
able price. For smaller borrowers, who deal with a limited number of well-
known local suppliers, this poses little problem for BND.
3.13      Accounting and Internal Control.  BND's accounts are reviewed
annually by Government and CCCE accountants. Their reviews, although use-
ful, do not provide an in-depth and independent audit of BND's accounts.
BND is presently encountering difficulties in its accounting system since it,
along with all public agencies in Upper Volta, began using a new government
owned computer (CENATRIN) in 1974. Some generalized problems attendant to
the installation of this computer affected BND. Second, BND's staff was
ill-trained to encode data and various delays in processing occurred. Since
no manual accounting was maintained in parallel with the new system, BND's
accounting has fallen behind and it is not expected to absorb completely
the back-log until end-1978.
3.15      Resources and Operations.  The bulk of BND's resources have come
from CCCE and BCEAO.  Recently, as part of its overall five-year planning
effort to diversify its resource base, BND has received financing from
KfW, USAID, CNDI, and ADB. A loan from BOAD has been negotiated and a
second line of credit from USAID is expected shortly. The terms and condi-
tions of BND's external borrowings are described in Annex 5.



- 10 -
3.16      The following table summarizes BND's loan and equity approvals for
the last fiscal year:
Table 4: Approvals in 1976
Amount
Number          %          (CFA Million)        %
Loans
Housing                   980          11.9              897           15.7
Consumer                6,968          84.2              610            10.7
Agriculture                124           1.5           2,932            51.2
Artisanal                   14          0.2                il            0.2
Commerce                   171          2.0              435             7.6
Industry                    10          0.1              837           14.6
Equity                            2           0.1                1             -
Total                         8,269          100%            5,723          100%
Housing loans are largely for salaried employees; average term on housing
loans is 7 years at an interest rate of 8.5-12%. Resources for most housing
loans come from the CCCE and the BCEAO rediscount. Consumer durable lend-
ing finances purchases of automobiles, mopeds and appliances; including fees
and charges, the effective interest rate is up to 16% for one-year loans.
Resources for these loans come almost exclusively from rediscount by BCEAO.
Agricultural loans are usually financed with BCEAO resources and are almost
exclusively short term to finance farm inputs and marketing operations. BND
makes three types of industrial loans: medium-term loans to artisans and
small enterprises, working capital loans for commerce, and working capital
and long-term loans to medium and large industires. Terms for loans to arti-
sans and small enterprises range up to 10 years and in keeping with BCEAO
guidelines carry an interest rate of 8 1/2%. The average size of loans to
these firms in 1976 was CFAF 785,000 ($3,200). Although the number of these
loans is small (only fourteen in 1976), in the future BND will expand its
operations in this sector. An analysis of BND's outstanding portfolio of
large industrial loans and a summary of its past operations are included in
Annex 6.
3.17      Fonds de Garantie des Petites et Moyennes Entreprises Voltaique.
BND also administers a small- and medium-scale enterprise gurantee fund es-
tablished in 1969 on the basis of the interest rate differential of a KfW
loan passed through BND. Approvals of guarantees are made by the Fund's
management council which includes eight representatives of Government,
BND and the commercial banks. According to its operating guidelines the
Fund can guarantee against default up to 80% of loans made by BND and the
commercial banks.  Loans must be to majority Voltan-owned firms with fixed
investment under CFAF 25 million. To receive the guarantee, an annual fee



- il -
of 0.25% of the loan amount outstanding is charged the borrower. Accord-
ing to the Fund's policy guidelines, commitments are restricted to five
times the Fund's unimpaired resources, At the beginning of 1977 the Fund
had unimpaired resources of about CFAr 104 mili-on, enough to guarantee
over CFAF 500 million in loans0  Since its es.ablishment, the Fund has
guaranteed a total of 116 loans for CPAF 185 million in guarantees. Of
loans guaranteed, the majority (75%) has been for loans of BNDO Subprojects
financed under the project are eligible for guarantee by the Fund.
3.18      Financial Performance and Prospects,  Outstanding loans in BND's
portfolio totaled CFAF 14.7 billion ($60 million) at end 1976 with doubtful
loans amounting to CFAF 581 million. Provisions against these loans amounted
to CFAF 464 million or 3% of the outstanding portfolio. Additional general
reserves and guarantees amount to CFAr 764 million equivalent to 5% of port-
folio. At the end of 1976 there were about 4500 accounts in arrears by
more than one month out of a total number of over 179000 accounrs. The port-
folio affected by arrears represents about CFAF 1,117 million or 8% of BND's
outstanding portfolio. The majority (60%) by number are consumer loans.
By amount, housing loans account for the largest share (45%) of loens in
arrears.
3.19      As shown in Annex 7, BND's profits, after making provisions, aave
increased substantially since 1974 and in 1976 amounted to CFAF 219 million,
15% of average net worth. Assets have also grown rapidly and amounted tu CFAF
16 billion ($65 million) in 1976. (See Annex 8.) BND's financial position is
basically sound. As a result of the capital increase described above BND's
long-term debt/equity ratio has maintained a level of about 5:1.
3.20      Financial projections and the assumptions on which they are based
are presented in Annexes 9 to 12. These projections assume the assistance
of this credit and a concomitant shift in BND's activities to the industrial
sector. According to BND's intended strategy, it will reduce the relative
share of its activities in the consumer and housing sectors and will focus
more on developmental projects in agriculture and industry. BND°s pipeline of
industrial projects (Annex 13) consists of over twenty projects requiring
about $17.6 million in financing from BND. Of these projects, seven projects
for about $900,000 in financing would qualify as medium-scale investments
under the project. In addition to these identified projects, BND normally
finances about fifteen very small projects requiring up to $100,000 in
financing annually. In order to meet its projected operations, BND will have
to mobilize about CFAF 4.2 billion ($17 million) in long- and medium-term
resources in addition to the proposed IDA line of credit and the credit from
BOAD. Most of this can be secured from BND's traditional sources such as
BCEAO and CCCE. Owing to the anticipated lack of growth in its short-term
lending operations and the availability of short term deposits, BND is not
expected to need short-term resources over the forecast period.
3.21      BND's financial position is expected to remain sound over the fore-
cast period. As shown in Annex 14, its long-term debt/equity ratio will



- 12 -
remain below the limit of 5:1 imposed for the Credit. Debt service cov-
erage is satisfactory and liquidity sufficient. Provisions are to be
maintained at 4% of outstanding loans. Profits are adequate, averaging
over 12% return on average equity.
Office de Promotion de L'Entreprise Voltaigue (OPEV)
3.22      Background.  OPEV was created in December, 1970, with the initial
objective of promoting small- and medium-scale enterprises in the construc-
tion sector. As a public agency it falls under the Ministry of Commerce.
Its Board of Directors, which consists of seventeen representatives of
Government and financial institutions, meets formally once per year. Since
its inception, OPEV's activities have grown to include other programs
assisting all types of local firms; it also advises the Government on SME
policy. OPEV's Director General, appointed in March 1976, has made a sig-
nificant contribution to improving and rationalizing OPEV's operations and
is well placed to strengthen coordination between OPEV and BND.
3.23      Organization.  (See Annex 15).  OPEV was reorganized in 1976, into
six major departments, all of which are headed by Upper Voltans. The key
operational departments are the project promotion and follow-up department,
which promotes projects, prepares credit dossiers and supervises projects;
the implementation department which manages the industrial estate; and the
technical services department which assists construction firms. In addi-
tion to the headquarters in Ouagadougou, OPEV carries out training and
project follow-up at its branch in Bobo-Dioulasso and a new branch in Kou-
dougou.
3.24      Staff.  At the end of 1976, OPEV's staff came to 64 of which 46
were Voltan and 18 expatriates. Professional staff numbered 38 (21 Voltans
and 17 expatriates).  OPEV has received technical assistance from France,
which sponsors eight advisors in OPEV's technical departments in Ouagadougou
and Bobo-Dioulasso. UNIDO which has four experts working on the industrial
estate project; and the Federal Republic of Germany which has six advisors,
one of whom works on the Equity Participation Fund (see para 3.26) and the
rest working on project promotion and management training. Although con-
tingent on the results of an August 1977 evaluation mission, German support
for the experts and the Participation Fund is likely to continue through
1980. Financing of the other advisors is expected to continue to 1980 as
well.  An advisor financed under IDA's Third Highway Project in Upper Volta
to assist local civil works contractors in preparing bids and identifying
equipment needs is to arrive at OPEV in late 1977.
3.24      Budget.  OPEV's resources come from the Government, fees and grants.
In 1976, the total budget (not including expatriate salaries) came to CFAF
37 million of which 18 million was Governnent financed.  Receipts for ser-
vices came to CFAF 12 million, and the remainder of CFAF 7 million was pro-
vided by bilateral sources. In the future, OPEV's receipts will be aug-
mented by leasing factory sites at the industrial estate. Based on OPEV's
five-year financial plan which assumes a constant level of Government support,
OPEV will not require external grants after 1980.



- 13 -
3.25      Training, Project Promotion and Follow-up.  OPEV's activities have
largely focused on technical training in construction skills and in account-
ing. Between 1973 and 1976, OPEV trained 825 persons. Owing to staff con-
straints, OPEV has been able to follow-up only fifty firms per year.  Firms
are supervised in electricity, carpentry, plumbing, automobile repair and
masonry. In addition to training and follow-up of construction firms, OPEV
has over the past three years prepared a total of 200 credit requests to-
taling CFAF 1.2 billion in investments. For a broadly based and relatively
new technical agency, OPEV is operating effectively. There are, however,
three areas where OPEV could improve its operations. These are: (1) coordina-
tion with BND and CNPAR particularly for project financing, (2) on-the-spot
follow-up of entrepreneurs in areas other than construction and (3) training
courses in basic business skills.
3.26      Equity Participation Fund.  The Equity Participation Fund managed
by OPEV was created in 1974 with a DM 500,000 (CFAF 49 million) grant from
the Federal Republic of Germany. The purpose of the Fund is to assist small
entrepreneurs in establishing a sufficiently solid equity base to support
debt financing. The Fund can provide up to 75% of the capital of a single
proprietorship and 49% of a corporation up to a maximum of CFAF 10 million.
In the course of 1976, the Fund received requests from 33 firms and accepted
nine for total participations of CFAF 16.5 million (Annex 16). Of the re-
sources available the Fund has notionally allocated 20% for participation in
artisanal enterprises and 70% for small- and medium-scale enterprises and
10% for sectoral studies.
3.27      Industrial Estates.  OPEV manages a new industrial estate in Ouaga-
dougou for small- and medium-scale enterprises. A CFAF 230 million loan was
signed with BOAD in 1977 to finance preparation of eighteen industrial sites,
construction of a cooperative artisanal workshop and an OPEV office. Con-
struction of two factories (a metal fabrication shop and biscuit factory) is
now completed. As shown in Annex 17, promoters have been located and financing
assured for the remaining sixteen expected operations. OPEV will retain
ownership of the estate, leasing production units to enterprises, and pro-
viding through its on-site office technical assistance, training and help in
financing. The estate is expected to generate 400 jobs at an average total
investment per job of CFAF 2.2 million ($9,100).
Centre National de Perfectionnement des Artisans Ruraux (CNPAR)
3.28      CNPAR was set up in 1971 as a public agency to provide technical
training to rural artisans. Subsequently it established, with Swiss bila-
teral assistance, a mobile advisory operation, Service d'Assistance, Con-
seil et Soutien (SACS), to supervise the progress of its graduates and to
provide them with credit-in-kind. Another subsidiary, Atelier Regional
de Construction de Machines Agricoles (ARCOMA), produces agricultural im-
plements which are marketed through Government regional development agen-
cies (ORDS).  These three operations are fully integrated although ARCOMA
is financially separated from CNPAR and SACS. CNPAR is under the Ministry
of Public Service and Labor. CNPAR's mandate was recently enlarged to in-
clude urban as well as rural artisans. It is a highly effective organiza-
tion, providing technical assistance, advice on appropriate technology



- 14 -
and credit to artisans. As CNPAR increases its activities however, it will
have to pay increased attention to coordination with other agencies, parti-
cularly OPEV.
3.39      Organization and Staff.  CNPAR's headquarters is located in Ouaga-
dougou and includes two SACS teams and one ARCOMA. There is a second CNPAR
training facility and one SACS team in Bobo-Dioulasso.  CNPAR is headed by
an Upper Voltan Director General who is assisted by an ILO financed advisor.
The total staff at CNPAR numbers 43 of which 7 are expatriates.
3.30      Training.  CNPAR's training activities focus on six skills:
masonry; well-digging; brick making; carpentry; blacksmithing and vehicle
and pump repair. Courses last from 3 to 7 months with 50 to 70 students
per course for a total of about 140 per year. Students, who are mostly
from rural areas, are provided a small stipend of CFAF 6,100 ($25) per month
to defray cost of training and subsistence. Demand for places in the program
is extremely high and, through the SACS operation, CNPAR monitors closely the
impact of its training efforts. Through the end of 1976, 578 artisans had
enrolled in courses of which 87% completed the curriculum. Of these over 50%
continued to work at least half time in their skill area after graduation.
For the artisans who did not continue to use their skill training some could
not be traced, some returned to full-time agricultural work and a few mi-
grated.
3.31      SACS.  The SACS operation provides technical assistance and advice
ta artisans trained by CNPAR. It also delivers credit-in-kind to artisans
and helps in marketing their output. The three SACS teams maintain regular
contact with 346 individual artisans and eight artisanal cooperatives. Visits
to artisans are scheduled at least quarterly. Assistance focuses on tech-
nical points and accounting, for which simplified forms for illiterates have
been developed. Credit operations have bnen financed by a grant of SFr
400,000 from the Government of Switzerland. Swiss resources may be used only
for rural artisans but not cooperatives up to a maximum of CFAF 100,000 per
person. Loans are made for raw materials, tools and some construction. Terms
have been at an interest rate of 7% with up to 2 1/2 years to repay. Since
credit operations began in 1974, and allowing for grace periods, recovery
experience cannot be fully assessed. Initial experience has been encourag-
ing and, particularly for raw materials purchases, loans have been repaid
ahead of schedule. Total credits approved amount to almost CFAF 19 million
($77,000) of which 60% has been for raw materials, 15% for tools and 25%
for construction. The average size of loan per artisan was CFAF 52,000
(US$200).
3.32      ARCOMA. The ARCOMA in Ouagadougou produces three basic types of
agricultural implements: small carts, ox-drawn ploughs and harnesses. Mar-
keting is through the various ORDs which purchase ARCOMA output for resale
to individual farmers.  Production is highly labor intensive and some fabri-
cation is subcontracted with rural artisans who are then supervised by SACS.
Individual artisans are provided raw materials, templates and plans not only
for fabrication of equipment, but also for repair of ARCOMA products. The
ARCOMA effort has been successful and has involved large numbers of Voltan
artisans in the production of locally designed and technologically appro-
priate agricultural implements.



- 15 -
3.33      Budget.  Excluding ARCOMA, which is essentially a self-sustaining
enterprise, CNPAR receives funds from the Government, fees, and grants from
external donors. Government support in 1976 amounted to CFAF 20 million
while UNDP contributed about CFAF 66 million. UNDP ended its support for the
salary of the advisor to the Director-General in October, 1977, and support
for operating expenses in January, 1977. The Government's contribution
increased to CFAF 50 million for 1977.
IV. THE PROJECT
Main Features
4.01      The proposed IDA Credit of $4 million would support the following:
(i) a line of credit of $2.45 million to BND to finance the
establishment and expansion of modern sector small- and
medium-scale enterprises in manufacturing, construction
and agro-industry;
(ii) technical assistance to BND for staff training and to im-
prove its financial and information systems;
(iii) assistance to OPEV to expand its management training
program and to strengthen its project promotion and
follow-up capability;
(iv) assistance to CNPAR to expand its artisanal training
to include urban areas and to strengthen its ability
to supervise urban and rural artisans;
(v) establishment of a $400,000 revolving fund for credit-
in-kind for rural and urban artisans and cooperatives;
and
(vi)   assistance to the Ministry of Commerce, Industrial De-
velopment and Mines to finance a study of Government
industrial policies, and to the Treasury to improve
operations of the External Debt Department.
4.02      The project has been designed to respond to the employment genera-
tion needs of the proposed urban project in Upper Volta. A summary of the
urban project is given in Annex 18.
4.03      Funds allocated for each of the above components are as follows:



- 16 -
BND    : Line of Credit                $2,450,000
Technical Assistance            250,000
Sub-Total             $2,700,000
OPEV   : Technical Assistance              200,000
Equipment and Vehicles           22,000
Local Personnel and
Administration             198,000
Sub-Total             $  420,000
CNPAR  : Credit-in-Kind                   400,000
Technical Assistance           262,000
Materials, Equipment and
Vehicles                      61,000
Local Personnel and             97,000
Administration
Sub-Total             $  820,000
Govern-
ment      Treasury                         25,000
Ministry of Commerce            35,000
Sub-Total             $   60,000
Total                                $4,000,000
Support to BND
4.04      The $2.45 million line of credit to BND will provide medium- and
long-term financing for fixed investment and permanent working capital in
sound small- and medium-scale investments. For purposes of the project
small-scale enterprises are defined as those with total assets of less than
CFAF 25 million (about $100,000). These would typically require financing of
less than CFAF 20 million (about $80,000) and would generally fall within the
Central Bank's definition of small-scale enterprises. Medium-scale enter-
prises are those with total assets of greater than CFAF 25 million and
less than CFAF 100 million (about $400,000), and credit needs generally of
CFAF 43 million (About $176,000). Enterprises with assets above CFAF 100
million but below CFAF 125 million ($500,000) will be eligible for refinancing
if the cost per job created by the investment is below the average for the
project ($5,000).   The terms of BND's subloans will be flexible with a
maximum of fifteen years and minimum of two years: terms are expected to
average eight years including two years of grace. The on-lending rate for all
subloans will be 11-1/2% excluding the documentation fee charged by BND
(minimal for small projects but as much as 1% of the subloan for large
projects) and commitment fee.  Subloans can also qualify for a guarantee for
up to 80% of BND's exposure for an additional fee of 0.25% per annum (see para
3.17). For small-scale loans that are within the Central Bank's SSE limit of



- 17 -
borrowings below CFAF 20 million, assurances were obtained during negotiations
that BND would be compensated for the difference by a Government interest
subsidy (See para. 2.14). For medium-scale investments, proceeds from the
line of credit would finance 100% of BND's subloan, provided that the amount
refinanced does not exceed 75% of the total cost of the investment to be
financed. For small-scale investments, the total of BND's subloan would be
eligible for reimbursement and thus some local costs will be financed under
the line of credit.
4.05      As shown below, it is expected that BND will finance about 30
subloans, largely in productive sectors, with the $2.45 million line of
credit. It is expected that a number of these loans may benefit from BND's
guarantee fund (para. 3.17) and OPEV's equity participation fund (para. 3.26).
During negotiations assurances were obtained that a maximum of 40% of the
credit will be committed to medium-scale investments. The financing plan
expected for subprojects under the line of credit based on BND's past ex-
perience is presented below:
Table 5: Subproject Financing Plan
Medium-Scale                   Small-Scale
Investments          %         Investments        _
(CFAF       (US$'              (CFAF       (US$'
million)       000)            million)      000)
Average total investment          54          220        100     20          82       100
Average BND financing             43          176         80     15          61        75
of which : IDA                 (40)        (166)       (75)   (15)        (61)      (75)
Contribution of Entrepreneurs
and Other Sources                 il           44         20      5          21        25
Number of Subprojects
Expected                       6                             24
Total cost of Subprojects        323        1,320               482       1,968
of which : IDA              (245)     (1,000)              (358)    (1,464)
4.06      Technical Assistance.  In order to strengthen BND an allocation
of $250,000 has been made to finance four and one half man-years of technical
assistance to BND. One and one half man-years have been allocated to finance
a computer systems expert to assist in financial management and to improve
BND's information system. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that a
counterpart for the position would be appointed by June 30, 1978.  One man-
year of assistance has been allocated to finance a trainer to upgrade the
quality of BND's financial staff especially in data encoding and processing.
The inspector general of BND will be the counterpart to this expert. A



- 18 -
further two man-years of assistance to advise BND's financial staff on general
accounting, loan collection and disbursement procedures was agreed to during
negotiations. Additional training needs would met through courses and semi-
nars such as those given by EDI. Local costs for housing, domestic travel and
support services for the experts would be met by BND. [See Annex 22 for job
descriptions].
4.07      Onlending Terms and Conditions.  The $2.7 million to support BND's
activities would be onlent to BND by the Government at the current Bank
lending rate and a term of fifteen years with three years of grace. The
amortization of the BND line of credit would be equal, semi-annual payments of
principal and interest. BND is expected to rollover the funds once. A fixed
amortization schedule is justified to ease for the Government the burden of
amortization schedule readjustment and to provide BND with a source of local
resources. The Bank's standard commitment fee of 3/4 of 1% would apply.
The foreign exchange risk on the line of credit to BND would be assumed by the
Government for a fee of .50%.  The free limit for sub-loans to be financed
under the line of credit would be US$50,000 subject to an aggregate limit of
US$1,500,000.  BND's debt/equity ratio would be limited to 5:1 for long-term
debt (over one year) and 12:1 for total debt outstanding, including savings
and Government deposits. Assurances covering all the above were obtained
during negotiations.
4.08       Under the project, BND would be required to undergo an annual
independent audit of its accounts beginning the year ending September 1978.
The auditors would be acceptable to IDA. BND has submitted an action plan and
schedule for absorbing the backlog of accounts, agreeable to IDA. Improve-
ments in BND's policy statement have been recommended by IDA and agreed to by
BND's management (See para 3.08). The revised policy statement must be
approved by BND's Board of Directors. Receipt and approval of these changes
would be a condition of disbursement for subloans financed under the line of
credit to BND.
Support to OPEV
4.09      A detailed cost breakdown for this component is provided in Annex 19.
Under the component, OPEV's project promotion and follow-up operations would
be strengthened by recruiting six additional local technicians to work in
OPEV's Ouagadougou, Bobo-Dioulasso and new Koudougou branches. In addition,
approximately ten trainees per year would be accepted on a work-study program.
These trainees would typically be graduates of the local technical college,
interested in establishing their own businesses after acquiring relevant
experience. As part of their one-year work-study program, trainees would
rotate among OPEV's operational departments to assist in carrying out market
studies, preparing credit applications and providing start-up advice to entre-
preneurs. They would make routine visits to entrepreneurs with the back-up
of OPEV's experts and experienced staff, thereby exposing them to day-to-day
problems of management at the same time as maximizing use of OPEV's experts.
In this way, OPEV is expected to be able to expand considerably the number
of entrepreneurs, presently limited to fifty, that it can promote and follow-
up on a regular basis. At least 125 firms (32 to be financed by BND, 18 on



- 19 -
the industrial estate, 50 construction firms and 25 in which OPEV would take
an equity participation) are expected to be supervised regularly.
4.10      OPEV's ability to provide management training would also be enlarged
under the project. In part, this would consist of the above work-study
program; it would also consist of courses and seminars for the staffs of
OPEV, BND, and CNPAR in financial analysis, accounting, etc. and courses in
basic management skills for entrepreneurs. A training coordinator with two
local counterparts would be engaged to identify specific training needs, and
to design and implement appropriate training courses. Assurances were ob-
tained at negotiations that the two counterparts would be recruited by June,
1978. In the long run, OPEV hopes to establish a management center, fully
equipped to carry out business training. For the time being, however, the
above program will provide the nucleus of a management center which can be
expanded as the needs for a center are fully identified.
4.11      The $420,000 under this component would include the cost of the
training coordinator for two years, salaries for two counterparts and six
technicians for three years, stipends for ten trainees annually (thirty in
total) and vehicles and operating costs. OPEV would also receive $80,000 to
sponsor about eight seminars and courses run by consultants (eight man-months)
over a three-year period. OPEV would contribute to staff benefits, ana
administrative support out of its annual budget. Assurances were obtai ed
during negotiations that the Government would maintain its present budge,-ry
support to OPEV in real terms over the next three years.
Support to CNPAR
4.12      A detailed breakdown of the costs to be supported under this project
component is given in Annex 20. Support to CNPAR consists of a grant to
establish a $400,000 permanent revolving fund for credit-in-kind to rural
and urban artisans and $420,000 for the expansion of CNPAR's training opera-
tions and SACS supervision operations. Use of grant funds for the revolving
fund is justified by the pilot nature of the operation and the need to build
up the Fund's equity base. Additional resources could be considered on a loan
basis in the future if operations prove successful. CNPAR's expanded opera-
tions are expected to deal with approximately 1000 artisans: at present,
CNPAR supports 400 trained artisans, and it expects to train an additional 600
over the next three years including about 150 artisans in the urban areas to
be upgraded under the urban project.
4.13      Credit-in-kind.  The creation of a $400,000 permanent revolving
fund would meet the in-kind credit needs of about one thousand artisans in
rural and urban areas supported by CNPAR. The credit-in-kind will largely be
raw materials (wood, metal, cement), and equipment (wheelbarrows, shovels,
axes, saws, molds and other basic tools); finance for the construction of
simple buildings will be in-kind. The average loan size is expected to
be $400 and loans would range from a few dollars (working capital) to a
maximum of $8,000 for artisanal cooperatives and $2,000 for individual arti-
sans. Credit terms will be flexible depending on the nature of the invest-
ment, with grace periods from 6 months to 3 years and terms ranging from one



- 20 -
year to 10 years depending on whether the Loan is for raw materials, tools or
construction. The average term is expected to be 4 years with 18 months
grace. During negotiations, agreement was reached to increase the interest
rate to artisans from 7% to 8-1/2% which will bring it in line with the
BCEAO guidelines for small-scale enterprises. IDA would review the first
ten sub-loans (or more, as necessary) approved by CNPAR and would, as well,
approve the semi-annuual forecasts for the credit operation to be prepared by
CNPAR.
4.14      The SACS extension officers would distribute raw materials to
artisans and assist in planning and implementing investments as part of
their regular supervision visits to artisans. Loan collections would also
be handled on routine visits and synchronized with marketing of output.
The credit-in-kind program would be administered by an expert with a local
counterpart to be engaged under the project.
4.15      Training.  Under the project, CNPAR's skill training will be
decentralized to the neighborhoods in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso targeted
for upgrading by the urban project. In response to the demands generated by
ithe urban project, training of about 10-12 artisans per year in each neighbor-
hood will be in the construction trades (masonry, brickmaking, and metal and
wood-working). Training will later be diversified into other productive
areas (for example, tailoring, weaving, furniture making). Training will
take place on-site in facilities constructed by CNPAR and, as part of the
training process, the trainees will construct community centres financed
under the urban project. The training cycle will last nine months with an
initial pre-training period of 3 months to recruit trainees and to undergo
preliminary training in CNPAR's central facilities followed by on-site train-
ing of six months.
4.16      The $420,000 allocated for CNPAR, in addition to the $400,000 for
credit-in-kind, will support CNPAR's expanded training and credit programs by
financing: (a) an expert in the construction trades for one year to train
trainers; (b) about ten man-months of short term consultants (including
volunteers) to give training in other specific skill areas such as weaving,
pottery, furniture making, and metal working; (c) salaries of five addi-
tional local trainers for three years to train artisans in the urban areas;
(d) student stipends for the additional 150 artisans to be trained in the
urban areas; and (e) the construction of mobile training facilities to be used
for on-site training in the upgraded urban areas. The project also provides
salaries for three years for four additional local extension agents and an
accountant, a SACS advisor for two years to administer the credit-in-kind
operations, and for construction, vehicles and operating costs. The project
covers the cost of an advisor for two years to coordinate CNPAR's activities
under the project and to advise CNPAR's Director General. Administrative
support costs would be met through CNPAR's budget. During negotiations, the
Government agreed to maintain in real terms its present level of suport
to CNPAR over the next three years.



- 21 -
Support to Ministry of Commerce and the Treasury
4.17      An allocation of $35,000 has been made to assist the Ministry of
Commerce, which is the ministry with prime responsibility for policy-making
in the industrial sector, to review aspects of the Government's present
industrial policy and to make appropriate recommendations. It is estimated
that a minimum of five man-months of short-term consultancy would be required
to carry out the following: (1) a review of the present investment incentives
system and its impact on the competitive position of small-scale enterprises
that do not generally receive incentives; (2) a study of the market prospects
for SSE in Upper Volta and recommendations for appropriate incentives; and
(3) a review of current methodologies employed by the concerned ministries and
agencies to analyze investment proposals and recommendations for an appropriate
technique, to be applied uniformly, that measures economic effects as well as
technical and financial viability. Detailed terms of reference for the study
are attached as Annex 21. An additional $25,000 has been made available to
support a two year program for staff of the External Debt Department of the
Treasury, which handles disbursements for IDA credits.
Project Costs and Financing
4.18      Total project costs are estimated to be CFAF 1.2 billion (US$5.0
million) of which the foreign cost component would be CFAF 0.8 billion (US$3.4
million) or 68% of the total. The Bank Group's share in project financing
would be US$4.0 million or 80% of the total project cost. It would cover the
foreign cost component as well as US$600,000 towards local costs. For the
credit components, local entrepreneurs, BND, and other sources of local
financing (commercial banks) would contribute to local costs. For the tech-
nical assistance components, the Government and local institutions (BND, OPEV,
and CNPAR) would meet the balance of local costs not covered by the IDA
Credit.  It is estimated that IDA's contribution towards local costs of
US$600,000, amounting to 15% of the Credit, would include $200,000 for BND
sub-loans to small-scale borrowers, $100,000 for CNPAR's credit-in-kind to
artisans, and about $300,000 for support to Government, CNPAR and OPEV.
4.19      Project costs and the proposed financing arrangements are sum-
marized in the table on page 22.
Organization and Implementation
4.20      To ensure coordination among BND, CNPAR and OPEV, a committee
composed of these three agencies will be formed. This committee will meet
monthly to review general progress and matters of common interest such as
joint training efforts, sectoral and market studies, and development of
complementary activities (e.g. hire-purchase arrangements). This committee
would also provide the focal point for a coordinated approach to policy and
institutional questions affecting SSE. The Committee would operate under
a rotating chairmanship. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the statutes and internal regulations governing the committee's operations,
which would be subject to IDA approval, would be agreed to and the committee
functioning by January 1, 1978. Minutes of the committee proceedings would be
reviewed during supervision.



-22-
Table 5: Project Cost Estimates
CFAF Million                           US$ Thousand
Taxes   Local   Foreign   Total        Taxes    Local   Foreign   Total
CREDIT
Artisans (CNPAR)                                    5       32       74        110         20       130      300        450
Modern Small (BND)                                 86       86      306        478        350       350   1,250       1,950
Modern Medium (BND)                                41       41      241        323        160       160   1,000       1,320
132     159      621        912        530       640   2,550       3,720
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Government                                          1        6        9         16          3        25       35         63
BND
Expatriate Salaries                              -       -        61         61         -         -      250         250
Operating Expenses                               3       12       -          15         10        50      -           60
3      12       61         76         10        50      250        310
CNPAR
Expatriate Salaries                              -       -        64         64         -         -      262         262
Local Salaries                                   2       il      -           13         10        44       -          54
Vehicles                                         1       -         3          4          4        -        14         18
Construction                                     3        3        9         15         12        12       35         59
Operating Expenses                               3       il        2         16         il        45        8         64
9      25       78        112         37       101      319        457
OPEV
Expatriate Salaries                              -       -        49         49         -         -      200         20C
Local Salaries                                   7       37       -          44         30       151      -          181
Vehicles                                         2       -         5          7          7        -        22         29
Operating Expenses                               2       12       -          14          9        47       -          5E
il      49       54        114         46       198      222        466
Total                               156      251     823      1,230         626    1,014   3,376        5,016
Table 6:  Proposed Financing
Government           Other Local
IDA    BND    Min.of    CNPAR   OPEV    Sources and    Total
Commserce                   Entrepreneurs
(US$'000)
CREDIT
Artisans                                                 400      -          -         -       -             50         450
Modern Small                                           1,450      -          -         -       -            500       1,950
Modern Medium                                          1,000      60         -         -       -            260       1,320
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Government                                                60      -          3        -        -            -            63
BND                                                      250      60        -         -        -            -           310
CNPAR                                                    420     -          -         37       -            -           457
OPEV                                                     420      -          -                 46           -           466
Total                                   4,000    120          3         37       46          810       5,016
Distribution %                              80      2         -          1        1           16         100



- 23 -
4.21      Specific work programs for joint efforts by OPEV and BND on
project identification, financing and technical support to modern sector
small- and medium-scale enterprises would be established. BND and OPEV
would set out common criteria for judging projects, and would routinely review
the status of subloans submitted to BND for financing under OPEV's sponsor-
ship. A convention would be drawn up by Januaryu 1, 1978 between BND and OPEV
to formalize this relationship. Assurances to this effect were received
during negotiations. To a limited extent, there would also be the need for
such cooperation between BND and CNPAR for investments financed by BND but
sponsored by CNPAR in cases where artisanal needs extend beyond CNPAR's
limits.
4.22      In order to focus the efforts of local institutions under the
project on the promotion and financing of investments using relatively labor
intensive technologies, both BND and OPEV will aim at firms that meet a
fixed investment target of an average of $5,000 per job created. Reducing
average cost per job to this level implies a significant shift in emphasis
considering that the cost per job created in modern industries in the recent
past is estimated to average about $10,000 per job.  At the same time, however,
this target recognizes the limited technical ability of BND and OPL. co zecom-
mend alternative technologies. Assurances were received during negotiations
that BND and OPEV would work to achieve a target of an average of $5,C,0 per
job created for subprojects promoted and financed under the project.
4.23      Coordination with the parallel urban project would be ensured
by OPEV, BND and CNPAR participation in the coordinating mechanism estab-
lished for that project. It will be particularly important to synchronize
CNPAR's on-site skill training activities with the urban project's progress
in each neighborhood and to design jointly community facilities to be built
by CNPAR.
4.24      Monitoring and Evaluation.  The three responsible agencies for the
project would be required to submit to IDA regular operational and financial
reports. For BND, these requirements cover normal DFC information including
quarterly financial statements, arrears and resource positions, operations
(approvals, commitments and disbursements) and annual reports and audit.
For OPEV and CNPAR, reporting requirements would include annual reports
and quarterly operation statements. Operational statements would review
OPEV's training, project preparation and follow-up efforts and CNPAR's
training, follow-up evaluation system covering the technical assistance
rendered by OPEV and CNPAR to entrepreneurs. Information to be gathered
periodically on entrepreneurs supported under the project would consist of
items such as characteristics of the entrepreneur (age, sex, previous occu-
pation, education); the nature of the entrepreneur's activities (products,
market, means of production, source of supply); measurement of these acti-
vities (output, sales, employees, stock, investment); financing (credit
terms, guarantee) and the type of assistance offered (training, feasibility
study, marketing advice, etc.). It is expected that such an evaluation
system would be flexible; coordinated with the present internal reporting
systems of the institutions; and that information would be gathered as routine
follow-up visits are made. Such a system was agreed to during negotiations;
the results of the system would expand our knowledge of the target group and
measure the impact of the technical assistance programs.



- 24 -
4.25      Technical Assistance.  The qualifications, terms and conditions
of advisors and short-term consultants uncler the project would be subject to
IDA approval. Provision has been made to finance a total of ten and a half
man-years for advisors and twenty-seven man-months of short-term consultants
for training and special studies. The average cost of advisors and consultants
is expected to be equivalent to US$7,000 per man-month.
4.26      Procurement.  The purchase of equipment and goods under the project
is not suitable for international competitive bidding, given the small size
and nature of the subprojects to be financed and goods to be procured.  BND,
OPEV and CNPAR are expected to follow local competitive bidding procedures,
which are acceptable to IDA, to ensure that goods and services are suitable
and are reasonably priced.
4.27      Disbursement.  BN]D would follow regular DFC procedures for disburse-
ment. Procedures would be simplified to cater to the special needs of the
credit-in-kind component for CNPAR. Documentation for the credit-in-kind
program would be retained by CNPAR and reviewed by IDA during supervision
missions. The Treasury would submit monthly claims on CNPAR's behalf for
reimbursement against actual expenditures as certified by CNPAR and the
BND.
4.28      The non-credit proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed to
cover the following:
a)   100% of foreign or 80% of local expenditures for salaries
and wages of foreign personnel. (US$0.748 million.)
b)   80% of salaries and wages of local personnel (US$220 million.)
c)   100% of foreign or 80% of local expenditures for passenger
cars and office equipment (US$ .083 million.)
d)   100% of foreign or 80% of local expenditures for operation
or maintenance (US$ .080 million.)
A schedule of estimated disbursements is in Annex 23. Disbursements against
categories b, c and d would be fully docurnented.
4.29      An advance of up to US$55,000 from the project preparation facility
was used to prepare the project. This advance will be refunded upon the
effectiveness of the credit.
Benefits and Justification
4.30      The project is expected to resu:Lt in considerable benefits to
Upper Volta and to increase access of traditional artisans and small- and
medium-scale investors to financing and technical assistance.  Benefits of
the project include promotion of local ownership and development of local
managerial capability. At the same time, the project is expected to have a
labor-absorption impact particularly in urban neighborhoods. It would also
have important institutional building effects on BND, OPEV and CNPAR by



- 25 -
upgrading the quality of their staffs, improving internal organization and
administration, and financial and operational policies. The results of the
proposed study on Government industrial policies are expected to lead to
institutional improvements within the concerned Government ministries, and, in
particular, strengthen project appraisal techniques, rationalize incentives
for large-scale investments and provide appropriate incentives for SSE. By
establishing an average cost per job target for modern sector investments of
$5,000, the project would result in a shift in emphasis by OPEV and BND to
relatively more labor-intensive investments.
4.31      Estimates of the direct economic benefits to accrue from the pro-
ject are based on the results of the recent ILO study of artisans in Ouaga-
dougou, BND's and CNPAR's past experience and other available data. The
$2.45 million line of credit to BND is expected to support investments
totalling $3.8 million. With an expected average investment cost per job
of $5,000, the project would therefore generate about 750 jobs or equivalent
to 10% of present employment in modern manufacturing industries. Annual value
added per employee in modern industries is estimated at $2,000; value-added
generated by the project would therefore be about $1.5 million annually. The
financial rates of return on subprojects are expected to be adequate and
economic rates of return should be larger than financial returns. Some
marginal improvement may result in regional distribution of modern industries
outside of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso. In addition, support to OPEV under
the project for project promotion, follow-up and management training is anti-
cipated to contribute to increased productivity.
4.32      The credit-in-kind, supervision and training of artisans by CNPAR
under the project is expected to generate employment for about 1,500 persons,
assuming an average of 2.4 traditional employees (including the skilled artisan)
for each of the 600 artisans newly trained by CNPAR. Annual value-added per
traditional employees is estimated to be $300: value-added generated under
the project would therefore be about $450,000 annually. CNPAR's past experi-
ence indicates that training on average is expected to double artisanal re-
venues. Total investment supported by the credit-in-kind operation is esti-
mated to be $450,000, assuming an average sub-loan size of $400 and average
contribution by the artisans of $50. Average investment cost per job is
therefore about $190 per worker.
Risks
4.33      The risks that project benefits would not be fully realized are
greatest for the employment generation impact, recovery of funds loaned under
the artisanal revolving fund and coordination of this project with the par-
allel urban project. Regarding employment generation, the project includes
two ambitious and important targets: 1) modern sector job creation at ai
average cost of $5,000 per job; and 2) creating approximately 1500 inforual
sector jobs at approximately $200 per job. Attaining the first target implies
cutting in half average cost per job in the modern sector. Based on projects
in the pipeline at BND and OPEV this appears feasible; nevertheless, even if
the cost per job target is not met subprojects will have positive economic



- 26 -
returns. For the informal sector jobs the risk is not missing the target
cost per job (CNPAR/SACS is already creating jobs at this level), but being
unable to expand operations to reach the projected number of sub-borrowers.
CNPAR's revolving fund may face unexpected difficulties in loan recovery.
Recovery rates to date have been satisfactory although CNPAR's experience has
been over a relatively short period of time. CNPAR could also encounter
difficulties if there would be significant delays in neighborhood upgrading
under the urban project, as the market for CNPAR supported urban artisans
depends in part on investments under this project.
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      An IDA Credit of US$4 million is recommended.  BND would be the
recipient of a US$2.7 million credit on-lent by the Government on standard
Bank terms with a fixed term of fifteen years including three years of grace
on principal repayments. Of the remaining US$1.3 million, grants of $1.24
million would be provided OPEV and CNPAR and US$60,000 to the Ministry of
Commerce, Industrial Development and Mines and the Treasury.
5.02      During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained:
(a) Government agreed to: (i) onlending arrangements (paras 4.04
and 4.07 and C.A. 3.02); (ii) continue its budgetary
support, in real terms, for CNPAR and OPEV for three years
(paras 4.11 and 4.16 and C.A. 3.03(b)); and to cover the
foreign exchange risk (para 4.07 and C.A. 3.02(a)(iii)).
(b)  BND agreed to on-lending terms and conditions (paras 4.04,
4.07 and 4.08 and PA 2.03);
(c)  CNPAR agreed to:  (i) on-lending terms and conditions (para
4.13 and P.A. 2.03);
(d) OPEV, CNPAR and BND agreed to: (i) joint participation in
coordination committee (para 4.20 and P.A. 2.10); and (ii)
satisfy their respective reporting and monitoring require-
ments (para 4.24 P.A. 3.01 and 3.02);
(e) OPEV and BND agreed to: (i) orient their efforts to sub-
projects with an average total investment of $5,000 or less
per job (para 4.22); and (ii) a joint convention to encourage
close collaboration in promoting, preparing, financing and
supervising subprojects (para 4.21 and P.A. 2.11).
5.03      Condition of loan disbursement for subloans under the
line of credit to BND would be:
(a) Acceptance of BND's revised policy statement by BND's Board
of Directors (para. 4.08 and C.A. 2.02(ii)(c)).



- 27 -
5.04      Other covenants agreed to were:
(a)  establishment of coordinating committee by January 1,
1978 (para 4.20 and P.A. 2.10);
(b)  engagement of training advisor by BND by March 31, 1978
(para 4.06 and P.A. 2.12(b));
(c) engagement of training coordinator by OPEV by March 31,
1978 (para 4.10 and P.A. 2.12(b)); and
(d) employment of counterpart by OPEV by June 30, 1978
(para 4.10 and P.A. 2.12(d)).
(e) employment of a counterpart by BND by June 30, 1978
(para 4.06 and P.A. 2.12(c)).
5.05      With the above conditions fulfilled, the proposed project would
be suitable for a Credit of US$4 million.



- 28 -                              ANNEX 1
UPPER VOLTA
Industrial Production and Value Added
in 1974
(CFAF million)
Production           _         Value
added
Traditional Industries:
Food Processing                î8,o85               3(         9,401        4h
Textiles                        1,273                2            503         2
Miscellaneous manu-
facturing                        2,880               6         2,480         12
Construction                    2,300                5         1,640          8
Sub-total                24,538              49         14,024         68
Modern Industries:
Food Processing                  6,452              13         l,146           6
Textiles and Leather             4,361               9         1,013          5
Chemicals                       1,874                4           533          3
Metal Products                   2, 306              4            318          1
Construction                   10,679               21         3,422         17
Sub-total                 25,672              51          6,432         32
Total                     50,210             100         20,456        100
WAP-IDF
July 15,1977



29
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
UPPER VOLTA
The Financial System
1.        West African Monetary Union.   Since 1962, Upper Volta, along with
Senegal, Ivory Coast, Benin, Togo and Niger, has been a member of the Union
Monétaire Ouest Africaine (UMOA), a group of Francophone states sharing a
common currency, central bank and parallel credit, monetary and interest rate
policies. The central bank for the Union, Banque Centrale des Etats de
l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO), has its headquarters in Dakar since 1975 with
a national branch in each member state. Although there is a significant
degree of local responsibility, Union-wide policy decisions are made by the
council of ministers, based on recommendations of national Ministers of Finance
and credit committees. The operating guidelines of BCEAO were revised exten-
sively in 1975 to provide a stronger national input to monetary policy and
credit allocation. Subsequent to these changes, the role of France in union-
wide decision making has been reduced, although it remains a shareholder of
BCEAO. Convertibility of the CFAF with the French franc is assured.
2.        Credit Policy.  Credit in the union as a whole and on a national level
is tightly controlled through the rediscount system. Short and medium-term
rediscount ceilings are in principle set by union wide amounts, national amounts
and by type and term of credit. Credit to Governments and for agricultural and
industrial investments have priority, but rediscounting for housing and consumer
durable loans also exists. Commercial banks and development banks may avail
themselves of these facilities. At June 1976, total rediscounting by banks
in Upper Volta amounted to CFAF 4 billion, or 16.2% of credit outstanding in
Upper Volta. This compares to CFAF 2.5 billion (14.7%) and CFAF 629 million
(5.2%) in 1975 and 1974 respectively.
3.        BCEAO's reformed operating guidelines introduced a number of new aspects
ot its regulation. Commercial and development banks are now treated equally,
and annual national rediscount ceilings are no longer made known publicly. Thus,
althougl BCEAO continues in principle to be prepared to rediscount all types
of loans on an as requested basis, access to BCEAO's rediscount is not systematically
assured. This is a reflection of the Union's desire to use central bank resources
more intensively for developmentally important investments and less frequently
for consumption. Moreover, the term of medium term rediscount was extended
from 7 years to 10 years while short term rediscount remained at 2 years or less.
4.        Interest Rates.  Rates in the union are controlled by BCEAO's regulations.
A preferential interest rate is applied on credits in priority areas including
Government, small-scale enterprises, l/ short-term agricultural loans, and low-
cost private housing. For credits in other areas, the normal rate would apply.
At present, the following interest rate are in effect in UMOA member states
BCEAO                 Allowable            Allowable
Rediscount                 Spread                Rates
Preferential             -5.5%                   1-3%                 6.5-8.5%
Normal                   8.0%                     1-5%                9.0-13.0%
1/ Small-scale enterprises are defined by BCEAO to be locally-owned enterprises with
credit outstanding of CFAF 20 million or less.



- 30 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
These rates apply whether the credit has been rediscount at BCEAO or financed
from other resources. Interest paid on deposits is also regulated by BCEAO.
At present, interest on small deposits (CFAF 2 million or less) ranges from
2.5% to 5.5% while interest paid on larger deposits can be negotiated and
currently is as high as 6.5% to 7.5%.
5.        BCEAO's interest rate structure has made it difficult for financial
intermediaries to raise high cost resources, particularly for areas where
preferential rates apply. To circumvent this difficulty, the central bank
may permit a derogation from its guidelines although it is reticent to do so.
Alternatively, each constituent state of the union can establish a national
interest subsidy account for loans to national (mostly small scale) enterprises.
This account, called the Fonds de Bonification, is funded by BCEAO profits and
can subsidize up to five percentage points of interest. In the case of Upper-
Volta, the Ministry of Finance agreed in principle to establish such an interest
subsidy account, although the decision to do so has not yet been implemented.
In the current fiscal year, BCEAO has allocated about CFAF 150 million for the
Fonds de Bonification in Upper Volta.
6.        The Banking System.  The local development bank, Banque Nationale de
Développement (BND) carries on commercial banking operations as well as develop-
meuw *financing. These operations and BND's structure and current situation are
d4se,.oged more fully in Section III. In addition to BND, Upper Volta is served
by two commercial banks, a government investment agency and miscellaneous savings
and price stabilizations bodies. Both commercial banks in Upper Volta are
majority local owned as a result of the Government's Voltaization policy. The
largest, Banque Internationale du Voltas (BIV), with seven branches nationwide,
had assets of CFAF 10.4 billion at the end of FY 1975. BIV is 49% owned by a
Franch bank and 51% by Voltan interests. Upper Volta's second commerical bank,
Banque Internationale pour le Commerce, l'Industrie et l'Agriculture de la Haute
Volta (BICIA) is 51% government owned with the remainder divided between several
European and American banks and a few private Upper Voltans. BICIA has three
offices countrywide with total assets of CFAF 4.3 billion. Upper Volta's
commercial banks lend exclusively on short and medium term, largely for agriculture
and commerce.
7.        A public institution of growing importance in Upper Volta is the Caisse
Nationale des Dépots et des Investissements (CNDI), which was created in 1973
to manage and invest public deposits and resources. Since its inception CNDI
has received long term loans from the Treasury amounting to CFAF 1.5 billion,
and deposits of the postal savings system and other public and semi-public
agencies. Like the commercial banks and BND, CNDI is legally permitted to re-
discount loans at BCEAO, although it has not yet done so. Since its inception,
CNDI has approved loans of CFAF 9.8 billion (including a special advance of
CFAF 3.5 billion). Most of CNDI's lending has been, and will continue to be,
for public infrastructure projects (energy, water, telecommunications, transport)
generally with government guarantee. As of April 1977, uncommitted resources
amounted to only CFAF 675 million and CNDI has begun to search actively for long
term external resources, mostly in the Euro-currency market. CNDI's operations
are restricted to loans of at least CFAF 50 million. By the nature and size of
its operations it does not compete directly with BND: the two are in fact com-



- 31 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
plementary institutions, as CNDI has acted as the Government's channel in
providing two advances to BND. CNDI recently became an equity shareholder
of BND.
8.        Other financial institutions include the Caisse de Stabilisation
des Prix des Produits Agricoles (CAISSTAB), which smooths price fluctuations
of locally produced agricultural commodities, mostly cotton and cereal grains.
A small private financing firm provides credit for automobile purchase, and
there is a national post office savings system. Finally, a number of local
credit unions (Caisses Populaires) exist in Upper Volta. These local mutual
savings and loan organizations started in the rural areas of Upper Volta with
the assistance of Swedish and Canadian advisors. Because of the success of
initial efforts in rural areas, urban caisses populaires have recently been
formed in poor neighborhoods of Ouagadougou. These urban caisses populaires
are an important facet of the parallel urban project for mobilizing savings.



- 32 -
ANNEX 3
BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
BOARD 0F DIRECTORS
Victor Thiombiano , ( President )               Inspector General, Civil Service
Jean Louis Gignoux *                            Director, CCCE
Kassoum Congo 7-*                               National Director, BCEAO
Ambroise Batienon                               Director, Treasury
André Bere                                      Director, Rural Development
Innocent Bakyono *                             Director, Industrial Development
Pierre Tahita *                                 Director, Plan
Joseph Kabore                                  Director, Agricultural Services
Pierre Sawadogo                                 Director, Urbanism
Vacant                                          D.E.G.
Vacant                                          CNDI
Vacant                                          CAISSTAB
* Member, Executive Committee.
WAP-IDF
July 15,1977



- 33 -
ANM    4
BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMNT
ORGANIZATION ChART
BOARD  OF D7RECTORS
COMIT  PEPIIIUiENT|
DRCTOR GEINERAL                                                               r|
RUL DEVELOPMNT                      STUDIES ADDINISTRA.0"                                                                   INSPECTR
FUR                              PROMOTIUON                                      I CGNRA
|   OUACIL B        
|    DEF057TS AND           ll OU2N                                             ;
AGRICULTURE                    INDUSTRY|
|    ARTISANS   |                       | ~~~~~~~DURAUILES l
* Oth.r Branchee have Siilar structure
WAP- IDF
jhly 15,1977



ANNEX 5
BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Su!wnary of External Borrowings
Amount                  Term
Year      Approved -               (Years)          Interest               Purpose
Caisse Centrale de    /
Coopération Economique       na         CFAF 865 million         5 - 10          3.5 - 5.0%             Housing
na        CFAF 4,273 million        7 - 15          3.0 - 4.5%             Special projects.
Banque Africaine de
Drveloppement               1972        UA. 2 million              14               6.5%                Industrial
1974       UA. 2 million               15               7%                     '
Kreditanstalt fur           1972       DI4. 2 million              50               3%
Wiederaufbau
1974       DM. 2 million               50               3%
USAID                       1973        US$ 1 million              35              305%                 Small/Medium-Scale
industries
Banque Ouest-Africaine
de Développement  2/        1976        CFAF 415 million           ls               6%                  Small rural industries
1  Since BND's inception, CCCE has advanced BND f if ty three different lines of credit to finance particular projects or
as global advances. The amounts above refer to only those lines of credit which are still outetanding.
j A second line of credit from USAID for US$ 1 million has been negotiated but not yet signed.
y The line of credit from BOAD is not yet effective.
WAP-IDF
July 15,1977



ANNEX 6 a
BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
LOAN APPIOVALS
(CFAF million)
197?                    1973'                    197>4                        1975                 1976
No.      Amount         No.       Amount         No.        Amount         No.        Amount       No.       Amount
Agriculture     74        1,223        70         1,2>42        96          1,101          107        1,731        124      2,932
Artisan         85           29         8            12         31             20            8            4         14         11
Commerce        57          142        73           482        1>40         1,362          11]          891        136        289
Housing      1,h95          739     1,928         1,145      3,056          1,624        1,537        1,064        980        897
Consumer     6,176          231     5,623           236      5,504            246        3,875          209      6,986        610
Industry         5       2,381          4           164          5            211           18        2,336         10        837
Other inclu-
ding public
agencies         2          290         5          600           1             50           49        1,010         29         145
Total        7,894        5,035     7,711         3,881      8,833          4,615        5,706        7,197      8,267      5,722
1  BND has shifted from short term commercial loans to largely overdraft facilities.
B RND has ceased to be active in lending to public agencies since the creation of CNDI
WAP-IDF
July 15,1977



- 36 -
ANNEX 6 b
BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
ANALYSIS 0E INDUSTRIAL LOANS OUTSTANDING
as of 30 September 1976
(Amount in CFAF million)
SIZE (CFAF million)                    NUMBER              %            AMOUNT         %
5  50                                  17                 45            518           10
504 100                                10                 26            707           13
100), 200                               5                 13            638           12
200>,+                                  6                 16           3512           65
Total                      38                100           5375          100
Median size : CFAF 63 million
INTEREST RATE (%)                      NUIBER              %            AMOUNT         %
h) 6                                   10                 26           2518           47
6>, 8                                  1à                 38           1753           33
88 10                                   7                 18            863           16
10+                                     7                 18            241            4
Total                      38                100           5375         100
Weighted Average   7.5%
TERM (Years)                           NUMBER                           AMOUNT         %
2> 5                                    5                 13            198            h
5) 8                                   12                 32           1333           25
8> il                                  15                 39           1479           27
11 +                                    6                 16           2365           44
Total                      38                100           5375         100
Weighted Average   8 years
SECTOR                                 NUMBER              %            AMOUNT         %
Agro industry                          17                 45           3768           70
Textiles                                2                  5            173            3
Metal Products                          4                 il            153            3
Chemicals                              10                 26            9L3          18
Printing                                2                  5            126           2
Other                                   38                              212            h
Total                      38                100           5375         100
WAP-IDF
July 15,1977



ANNEX 6 c
BND : REPRESENTATIVE INDUSTRIAL LOANS OUTSTANMDING
At 30 September 1976
(CFAF Million)
Voltaic
Borrower       Indtistry       Tvpe          Location            Total            Loan           Term      Interest       Ownership         Employvnent
Investment      Outstanding                  (                                Created
VOLBRICAM      Ceramlc T9le   Exp.           Ouaga.               113              41             10         1(              80               53
VOI.iTX        Textiles        New           Koudougou           1200              17              9          5.5            61              637
SOSUliV        Sugar           New/Exp.    Banfora               3480            660              10          9              40             1500  +  Seasonal
CIDT           Cotton          New/Exp.      Bobo.                395             107             15           5              0              150  + 1000 Seasonal
CITEC          Soap            Exp.          Bobo.                447             216              7          6              16              252
cMV            Milling         New           Banfora              410              80             12          6.5            38               60
SOPIVOLTA      Batteries       New           Bobo.                118             45               7          6.5            46               52
SAP            Tires           New           Bobo.                630            443              15          7.25           83              380
UVOCAM         Vegetables      New           Ouaga.                45              44             10           7            100               54  +  Seasonal
SOVOLPLAS      Plastics        New           Ouiaga.               63              30              6           7.75          25               37
SAI`I          Metal Fabri-                                                                                                                   37
cation        New          Oulaga.               100             75               7          5.5            51               69
P'\PEC         Paper           New          Ouaga.                165             91              10          7.25           75               20
VOLTAPAY       Food            New           Otuaga.               90              56              7           7.5           50               15
SIPAT.         Food            New           Bobo.                 53              33              7          8             100               15
SOVOBRA        Beer            New           Ouaga.              1500            429              12          7.25           51              128
MAVIE          Insecticide    Ncw            Ouaga.                51              36             10          11.5          100               25
FLEXIFOAM      Plastic         New           Ouaga.                87              65              7         11.5            90               21
PROCIIEMIE     Chemicals       New          Ouaga.                 70              30              6         il              90               41
VOITAIQUE      Metal Fabri-
DIT METAL       cation         New           Ouaga.                31              22              10         il            100               18
SIB            Cookies         New           Ouaga.                32              20             10           8.5          100                9
WAP- IIF
lily 15,1977



- 38 -                              ANNEX 
BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Income Statement
(CFAF million)
1972        1973         1974         1975         1976
Revenue
Interest and
commissions       207         277          446          643          1107
Dividends               5            9          16           14             5
Other                  14           14          13           30            45
226         300          475          687          1157
Expenses
Personnel              52           63          72           88           127
Administration         36           43          50           69            93
Financial Charges      76          111         207          333           487
Depreciation           12           13          15           18            22
Provisions             45           76         132           70           209
221         306          476          578           938
Net Income                 5             (6)          (1)         109          219
2xc eptional Profits
and adjustments to
Previous Year IncomeéJ     5             12           il           22           25
10            6            10          131           244
/ Includes adjustments to internal guarantee fund.
WAP-IDF
July 15,1977



- 39 -
ANNFEX 8
BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
BALANCE SHEET
(CFAF Million)
1972       1973       1974       1975        1976
ASSETS
Current
Cash & Deposits            114         381        281        197         519
Other                       60         191        209        270         298
174        572        490        467         817
Portfolio
Short Term                      522        392       1041       2890        5193
Mediuin Term                    998       1553       3004       3078        4585
Long Term                      1771       2386       4088       4747        4829
Doubtful                        131        236        236        326         581
(Less Provisions)           (105)      (189)       (189)      (253)       (464)
3317       4378       8180      10788       14724
Investments (Net)                73         63         63         73         223
Fixed (Net)                      73         73        114        123         166
146        136        177        196         389
Total                          3637       5086       8847      11460       15930
LIABILITIES
Current
Deposits                   780       1288       1877        2788        3457
BCEAO                       -           -          -         -          1392
Other                      399        476         787        709         521
1189       1764       2664       3497        5370
Long/Medium Term
CCCE                      1228       1820       2728        3113        3212
Gov't                      249        340         398        398         458
ADB                         90        211         503        555         808
KfW                         -           -          43        113         139
USAID                       -           -         125        211         211
CNDI                        -          -           -         270         400
BCEAO                       _          -        1103       1777         3390
Other                       -           77       277         242         207
1567       2448       5177       6679        8825
Grants & Internal
Guarantees                 283         276        277        281         299
Reserves & Accumulated
Earnings                   243        243         374        505         729
Paid-in Capital                 355        355        355        508         707
881        874       1006       1294        1735
Total                          3637       5086       8847      11460       15930
WAP-IDF
July 15, 1977



- 40 -                             -Annex 9
page 1 of 2
BND
Assumptions for Financial Projections
1.       Forecast of Loan Approvals
1977        1978           1979          1980       1981
(CFAF million)
Agriculture                2500         2700          2900          3000        3000
Artisan                      20           22             24           27          30
Commerce                    400          500           500           500         500
IHousing                   1000         1000          1000          1000        1000
Consumer                    500         500            500           500         500
Industry                   1000        1100           1200          1400        1600
Other                       150          150           150           150         150
Total            5570         5922           6274          6577       6780
20       Commitments and Disbursements. Commitment of loan approvals are as
follows : for agriculture and artisan, 80% of approved amount in year approved
and 20% in next year; for commerce, consumer and other, 85% in year approved
and 15% in next year, and for housing arid industry, 67% in year approved and
33% in next year. Disbursements of commitments expected as follows : for
agriculture, artisan, commerce, consumer, and others, 90% disbursed in year
committed and 10% in next year; and for housing and industry, 75% disbursed
in year committed and 25% in next year.
3.       Term.  Loans for agriculture, commerce and other are expected to have
one year term with no grace period. Consumer loans are expected to be two
years with no grace period. Artisanal loans, four years with nne year grace.
Housing, seven years with one year grace and industry, eight years with two
years grace.
4.       Interest.  The existing loan portfolio is expected to earn an average
of 7.8% per annum. New loan disbursenents yield an average of 10% per annum.
5.       Other Revenues.  Current assets are expected to earn an average of
8% per annum as short-term investments.  Other income includes rent and fees.
Equity investments yield an average of 4 12%.
6.       Financial Charges. Interest paid on identified lines of credit is
according to specific terms0 BCEAO rediscount averages 6% per annum. An average
of 5% is paid on current deposits. Interest paid on proposed World Bank line
of credit is assumed to be 8% per annum plus standard commitment fee.  Interest
on unidentified borrowings is to average 7% per annuin.



- 41 -
Annex 9
page 2 of 2
7.       Other Ecpenses0  Personnel and administration expenses increase by
10% per annum. Expatriate personnel costs include personnel financed under
proposed credit. Depreciation expenses assumes average 10 year life of fixed
assets. Provisions amount to 3 1/2% of outstanding portfolio in 1977 increasing
to 4% in 1978 and subsequent years.
8.       Fixed Assetso Extension to office building will be complete in 1977.
Replacement of assets assumed to average CFAF 20 million annually from 1978.
9.       Other Assets.  Other current assets increase 10% annually.  Equity
investments outstanding remain constant.
10.      Current Deposits.  Deposits are assumed to inerease at a declining rate,
reflecting BND's commercial overdraft operations.
11.      Share Capital. The balance of BND's share capital is to be paid in by
end FY 77.
12.      Loan Collections.  Existing portfolio is expected to be repaid as
f ollows : long-term loans assumed over 9 years, medium-term over 6 years and
short-term, 75% in 1977 and 25% in 1978. New portfolio is to be collected
according to assumed terms.
13.      Debt Repayment.   BND's borrowings are to be repaid according to specific
terms of identified lines of credit. BCEAO rediscount is assumed to be repaid
over two yearsfor short term and six years for medium term.  Government and
other borrowings are to be repaid over six years0 CCCE lines of credit are to
average ten years. The proposed World Bank line of credit is assumed to be
repaid over fifteen years, with three years grace.
WAP-IDF
July 15,1977



- 42 -
ANN_  10
BND
Projected Balance Sheets
(CFAF million)
ASSETS                          Actual
1976       1977        1978       1979        1980         1981
Cashs Deposits                519        1466        2057      2289        2333          2451
Other                         298         330         363        399         439          483
817        1796        2420       2688        2772         2934
Loan Portfolio
Short Term              5193        4015        3103       3252        3344         3377
Medium Term              4585        5012       5098       5029        4823         4469
Long Term               5410        5945        6438       6854        7277         7734
Less Provisions              (464)       (524)       (585)      (605)       (618)        (622)
1X724      14448       14054      14530       14826        14958
Lquity Investments            223         223         223        223         223          223
Fixed Investments             166         324         302        280         258          236
Total                  15930       16791       16999      17721       18079        18351
LIABILITIES
Deposits                     3456        3956        4356      4756        4956          5156
BCEAO                        1393         697         -          -           -            -
Other Current                 521         521         521        521         521          521
5370       5174        4877       5277        5477         5677
Borrowings
CCCE                     3212       2892        2572       2252        1932         1612
GOV'T                     458         383         308       233         158            83
ADB                       808         999         891        783        675           567
KfW                       139         341         341       341          341          341
USAID                     211         211        204        197         190          183
CNDI                      400        400         400        380         360          340
BCEAO                    3390        2966       2542       2118        1694         1270
BOAD                      -           -           265        397        415          415
World Bank                -           -           172        479        637           607
Other                     207         172         137       102          67            32
Unidentified              -           983       1793       2333        2916         3576
8829        9347       9625       9615        9385         9025
Grante &Internal          299         299        299        299         299           299
Guarantees
Reservels Retained        729         971        1198      1529        1918          2349
EarningS
Pmid-in Capital           707       1000        1000       1000        lOofl        1000
Total                15930       1'7u1       16999      17720       1807i        lA-
WAP-IDF
July 15,1977



- 43 -
Annex 11
BND
Projected Income Statements
(CFAF Million)
Revenue             Actual
1976      1977      1978       1979      1980      1981
Loan Interest     1,107     1,278      1,303     1,384     1,444      1,488
Dividende             5        10         10        10        10         10
Other including      39         50        50        50         50        50
Rent
S. T. Interest        6        31         50        71        95        126
Total        1,157     1,369      1,1413    1,515     1,599      1,674
&rpenses
Financial Charges   487        746       772       801        809       817
Personnel           127       150        165       182        200       220
Expatriates          -         19         25         6         -         -
Administration       93        110       121       133       146        160
Depreciation         22        42         42        42        42         42
Provisions          219        60         61        20        13          4
Total          938     1,127      1,178     1,184     1,210      1,243
Income                219       242        227       331        389       431
WAP-IDF
July 15,1977



- 44 -
A.NNEX 12
BND
Projected Cash Flow Statement
(CFAF million)
1977        1978         1979          1$80           1981
Sources
Loan Collections
Long and medium term      1358        1530         1818          2104           2391
Short term                4802         47°4        3840          4023           4118
Borrowings
Existing Debt              452          -            -            -
World Bank                  -           172          307          158             25
BOAD                        -           265         132            18
Unidenti.fied              983          810         60,3          807            967
Deposits                       500          400         400           200            200
Share Capital                  293           -            -             -              -
Profits plus depreciation      339          330          393          444            477
and provisions
Total                 8727        8211         7553          7754           8178
Uses
Deebt Repaynment
Long and medium term       913          969        1112          1213           1351
Short term                 697          697         -             -
Loan Disbursement
Long and medium term      2320         2109        2164          2319           2497
Short term                3623         3792        3989          4118           41L8
Fixed Assets                   200           20           20            20             20
Other Current Assets            32           33           36            40            44
Total                     7785         7620        7321          7710           8060
Sources over Uses              947          591          232            44             18
Accumulated Cash              1466         2057         2289         2333           2h51
WAP-IDF
July 15,1977



ANNEX 13
fND : Endustrial. PFo'ecte Pipeline                               Page 1 of 2
At 30 September 1976
(CFAF Million)
PROMOTER            INDUSTRY      TYPE         LOCATION            TOTAL              13ND       OWNERSHIP    EMPLOYMENT
INVE,STMENT         LOAN                       CREATED
1)   SICOPAD              Food           New          Bobo.                t,                45         Voltaic          h6
2)   Société des
Fonderies            Ironwork       New         Ouaga.               524               389           "             105
3)   Complex
Metallo-metalique   Agricultural
Implements    New          Ouaga.               136                89                          24
4)   VOLTEMA              Enamalware    New           Ouaga.              135                 95                         42
5)   SAF                  Tires          Exp          Bobo.               380               260                         108
6)   MAVIE                Insecti-       Exp          Ouaga.               65                40                          35
cides
7)   SOJOLTA              Tannery        New          Bobo.             2,241               298                       1,683
8)   SAFI                 Carts          Exp          Ouaga.              475               405                         150
9)   SAPI                 Poultry        New          Ouaga.               95                 72                         22
10)  EIBCV                Sawmill        Exp          Banfora              ho                 30        Foreign          4t6



ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 2
TOTLAL             BND
PROMOTER            INDUSTRY      TYPE        LOCATION           INVESTMENT          LOAN        OWNERSH       EMPLOYHENr
CREATED
11)   Company
being formed      Printing       New          Ouaga.               65                50           na            12
12)   "                  Surgical
Cotton        New          Bobo.               300               200           "             60
13)  SOVORES             Ceramic       New          Ouaga.              450               315                         80
1h)  Company
being formed      Wire fencing   New          Ouaga.               46                30           n             12
15)   "                  Animal Feed   New          Bobo.                48                 31                        10
16)   "    le            Edible Oil    New          Ouaga.               55                35                         30
17)   "    "             Peanut
Butter        New          Ouaga.               25                15           "             22
18)  "     "             Locks         New          Ouaga.              168               108           "             30
19)  PAPEC               Paper          Exp.        Ouaga.               70                45           "             25
20)  Company being      Milk
formed              Products      New          Bobo.               209               169                         42
21)  EMA                 M e tal       New          Bobo.               291               251           "             60
WAP-IDF
July 15,1977



ANNEX 14
BND
Actual and Pro,jected Financial Ratios
Actual                                               Pro,jected
Years ending
September 30                      1972       1973      197>4      1975       197(6        1977       1978       1979     1980    1981
Income and Expenses as % of
Average total Assets
Gross income                    7.3        7.2       7.0        7.0        8.6          8.3        8.4        8.7      8.9      9.1
Less: Financial Expenses        2.11      2.5        3.1        3.3        3.6          4.5        4.6        h.6      4.5      4.5
Administrative Ec-.
penses             3.2        2.8        2.0       1.7        1.8          2.0        2.1        2.1       2.2     2.3
Provisions               1.4        1.7        1.9       0.7        1.5          0.4        0.4        0.1       0.1     0.0
Net Profit                      0.3       0.2        0.1        1.3        1.7          1.5        1.3        1.9      2.1      2.4
Income from Loans as % of
average loan portfolio             7.5        7.2        7.1       6.8        8.9          8.?        9.1        9.1       9.4    10.0    .
Cost of Debt as % of average
debt including Deposits            3.5        3.2        3.4       3.7        4.0          5.h,       5.7        5.7       5.7     5.7
Profit as % of Year and
share capital                  2.8       1.7        2.8       25.8       34.5         24h2       22.7       33.1      38.9    43.1
Profit as % of average
equity                        1.2       0,7        1.1       11.L       16.1         12.J        9.5       12.4     12.7    12,4
Debt/Eauity Ratio
Term debt/equity                 1.8        2.8       5.1        5.2        5.)          4.1        3.9        3.4       2.8     2.6
Total debt/equity                3.1        L. 8       7.8       7.8        8.2          6 .        5.8        5.3 4)h5 24.
D)ebt Service Coverage             -          -          -               -                 1.5        1.5        1.6       1.7     1.7
Liquidity                          0.6        0.5        0.6       1.0        1.1          1.1        1.]        1.1       1.1      1.1
/ Equity includes reserves & accumulated earnings, paid in capital Xad grants & internal guarantees.
/ Interest and principal coverage on long and medium term debt obligations.
WAP-IDF
July 15,1977



ANNEX 1S
OFFICE DE PROMOTION DE L'ENTREPRISE VOLTAIQUE
ORGANIZATION CIIART
BOA RD
OF
DIRECTORS
I
|EXECUTIVE                              CTOR GENERAL                             BIANCIIES
SECRETARIAT                    l          
2 V                   |   MANAG~~~~~EMENT|
| COM14ITT£E 
ADMINISTRATIVE                            EQUITY               STUDIES ANI)            PROJECT                DOCUMENTATION           TECHNICAL             0o
SERVICES                         7PARTICIPATION FUND      |  FOLLOW-UP           (INDUSTRIAL ESTATE)            AND                  STUDIES
I____________  I  l   .MARKETING
13 V                    1 V             I E           5 V      3 E         5 V         4 E            3 V       1 E          9 V       6 E
ADMINISTRATION                                                                                                                         ARCHITECTlURE
ACCOINTING                                                                                                                            TECINICAL ASSISTANCE
V = Voltajc Personnel
E = Expatriate
12/31/76
WAP-IDF
JIly 15,1977



ANNEX 16
OPEV : EQUITY PARTICIPATION FUND
PARTICIPATIONS OUTSTANDING AT 31 DECEMBER 1977
PROMOTER             SECTOR         LOCATION       (CFAFoOOO)          (CFAF'000)    EMPLOYMENT      COMMENTS
TOTAL PROJECT COST   PARTICIPATION
VOLTAIQUE DU         Metal          Ouaga.          36,750              2,000           21           New; BND Loan
METAL               Working
SIB                  Biscuits       Ouaga.          33,750              2,000            9           New; BND Loan
ANDRE OUBIDA         Brickmaking   Ouaga.             2,100             1,500           13            Expansion; No Loan;
CNPAR assisted
NEBILA,BADOLO        Brickmaking   Koudougou          1,450             1,000           12            Expansion; No Loan;
CNPAR assisted
AIME BAGA            Garage         Kougoudou         2,500              2,000          10            Expansion; No Loan;
IDRISSA DJIBO        Artisanal
Aluminum     Bobo.             2,800              2,000          12            Expansion; No Loan;
ARTISANAL COOP-     Agricultural   Koudougou          8,000              2,000           5            ARCOMA subcontracting;
ERATIVES         Implements      Bobo.             8,000             2,000            5            Government Subvention
De Jougou        8,000              2,000            5
WAP-IDF
July 15,1977



ANNEX 17
OPI,V                                                                   Page I of 2
OUAGADOUGOU INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
(CFAF)             (CFAF)            DIRECT             (CFAF)
PROJECT                 PROMOTOR           FINANCING        START-UP :TOTAL INVESTMENT    ANNUAL SALES        EMPLOYMENT           COST/JOB
1. Metal working                 Located            Assured           3/77    :  24.000.000           53.000.000   :        21                 1.150.000
2. Biscuits/cookies              Located            Assured           6/77    :  34.000.000           45.000.000   :        15                 2.270.000
3. Metal machining               OPEV           :     -            : 12/78       130.000.000          80.000.000   :        40        :        3.050.000
4. Clothing                  :  Located         :  Assured          : 12/77       56.000.000          300.000.000   :       79        :           710.000
5. Peanut butter             :  Located             Assured           9/77    :  25.000.000           40.000.000            22                 1.140.000
6. Karite butter             :  Located         :  Assured             1/78       55.000.000           80.000.000   :       30                  1.840.000
7. Construction materials          -            :      -              12/77       33.000.000         100.000.000            45                    740.000
8. Candles/crayons                 -                   -              12/77    :  20.000.000           20.000.000           10        :         2.500.000
9. Training facility         :  OPEV                Assured           12/77    : 12.000.000        :      -          :      -         *            -
10. Artisanal cooperatives        OPEV           :  Assured            12/77    :  36.000.000           15.000.000   :       25        :         1.440.000
11. Cbalk                     :  Located             Assured           12/77       15.000.000           25.000.000   :       10        :         1.500.000
12. Ballpoint pens            :  Located         :   Assured            1/78       48.000.000       :   84.000.000   :       16                  3.000.000



ANNEX 17
OPEV                                                                    Page 2 of 2
OUAGADOUGOU INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
-    ttA J(Unit )  DIRECT            (CFAF)
PROJECT                PROMOTOR           FINANCING        START-UP   TOTAL TlJVESTMENT   ANNUAL SALIS       EMPLOYMENT          COST/JOB
13. Mechanical repairs            Located            Assured           7/77        25.000.000          25.000.000           10                 2.500.000
14. Flour                            -                 -              12/78        25.000.000          16.000.000           12                 2.085.000
15. Furiiiture                    Located            Assured           1/78        40.000.000          50.000.000           28                 1.500.000
16. Printing                      Located            Assured          12/78        65.000.000          35.000.000            8                 8.125.000
17. Plastic extrusion                -                 -              12/77        25.000.000          35.000.000           10                 2.500.000
18. Celatin                   :  Located             Assured           5/78        35.000.000          25.000.000           18                 1.975.000
TOTAL                     . 87% located        67% assured                   851.000.000         905.000.000            25(Ave)  -         2.235.000
WAP-IDF
July 15,1977



- 52 -
UPPER VOLTA
SMALL SCALE E'JTERPRISE AND ARTISAN PROJECT WIT,H
URBAN PROJECT
Al
GOVERNMENT
~~~~~~~ ~~I '`'
MUNICIPAL}TIES
OPEV                          BND                        OuagaOFSC                                                                 PR
Technical
Assistance                    Credit                       Municipal                         Infrastructure          Credit-          Skill
*   Asaistance                        Investetent;           in-kind           Training
,          Home Building
,raterials
:                         t
URBAN TARGET GROUP
Subcontracting;
Business Development
SMALL SCALE ENTERF1RISES
ARTISAANS
_Small Scale Enterprise and Artisans
----- ---------  Urban Prc.ject
WAP-IDF
July 15,1977



- 53 -                           ANNEX 18 a
Page 1 of 3
IJPPER VOLTA
SUMMARY OF THE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        The Government of Upper Volta requested an IDA credit to assist
it to implement its national urban development policy through a program
of infrastructure investment, training, and "learning by doing" in three
urban centers: Ouagadougou, Bobo-Dioulasso, and Gaoua. The project, the
first IDA credit in the urban sector in Upper Volta, extends and improves
experience of a UNDP-financed pilot squatter upgrading and sites and services
project in the Cissin neighborhood of Ouagadougou. The proposed project
builds on the low-cost methods of provision of infrastructure developed
in Cissin, while emphasizing cost recovery, strengthening of local municipal
institutions, and a phased approach to the implementation of all components.
The project seeks to expand the capacity of national and local institutions
to provide low-cost urban services while at the same time extending improve-
ments in housing, water supply, and drainage,to some 100,000 persons.
2.        The project will assist the Government to reach an important dual
objective in the urban sector: to improve living conditions and to increase
productivity. The project is closely linked to the Small Enterprise and
Artisans Project discussed in this appraisal report and would be implemented
simultaneously with it. The two projects have been prepared together with
several mutually reinforcing components.
3.        The Government has faced serious constraints in improving living
conditions in its rapidly growing urban sector. These include a lack of
budgetary resources to devote to urban development in a largely rural country,
scarcity of qualified personnel in urban-related fields, financially weak
local institutions unable to maintain past investments, and the urgency to
assign qualified personnel in social services to rural areas. The Cissin project
as devised by UNDP offered an alternative, low-cost method of improving urban
living conditions through self-help and community participation, and in line
with local resources. This approach was adopted in late 1975 as the cornerstone
of Governnent policy in the sector following a national seminar which was
held to evaluate the project. IDA assistance was requested at that time and
the present project was prepared during 1976.
4.        The project includes the following components:
(a) Squatter Upgrading: servicing of 8815 plots on 432 hectares
with water standpipes, stormwater drainage, earth roads; in
2 neighborhoods in Ouagadougou and 1 in Bobo-Dioulasso;
(b) Sites and Services: preparation and servicing of 2220 plots with
water standpipes, stormwater drainage, earth roads on 50 hectares
in both Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso, and a pilot project for
100 families in Gaoua;



- 54 -                              ANNEX 18a
Page 2 of 3
(c) Water Supply: public standpipes in two additional neighborhoods
of Ouagadougou, inhabited by 20,000 persons;
(d) Building Materials Loans: financing of loans in kind for housing
construction and improvements;
(e) Community Facilities: construction of neighborhoods community
centers, markets, warehouses for building materials, rehabilitation
of 65 school8 and 17 dispensaries in the two cities, a pilot
community development project for community education, public
health, and women's activities;
(f)  Assistance to Municipalitles:  financing of technical assistance
for training maintenance personnel, improving financial manage-
ment and tax collection, reorganization of Departments of Roads
and Buildings, expansion of Municipal Housing Offices; purchase
of equipment for maintenance activities, 11 garbage trucks, and
insecticide spraying;
(g) Technical Assistance to Department of Town-Planning: 13.5 man-
years of technical assistance for project execution, training,
and preparation of a second project; consultant services for
detailed engineering and supervision; equipment purchase, and
operating costs of project unit;
(h) Monitoring and Evaluation: funding for a study of performance of
project components during project execution.
5.        Estimated plot development costs in upgraded neighborhoods and sites
and services areas will vary from CFAF 62,852 (US$ 257) to CFAF 95,252 (US$ 388),
including the cost of land acquisition. The implied monthly charges, including
water charges, municipal taxes, and building materials loans, represent from
14 to 17 percent of average household monthly incomes in squatter areas.
6.        Total project costs are estimated to be CFAF 270.3 million
(US$ 11.3 million), of which 55 percent is foreign exchange. The IDA credit
will cover CFAF 1,820 million (US$ 7.43 million) or 90 percent of total project
costs net of taxes and land acquisition. Advances from the Project Preparation
Facility amounting to CFAF 80.9 million (US$ 330,000) were used for project
preparation, detailed engineering, and start-up costs of the project unit,
including technical assistance.
7.        Project implementation will take about 3.5 years, with civil works
construction, and municipal assistance being completed during a period of
about two years. During the implementation period CNPAR assistance will be
targeted on affected neighborhoods, permitting local artisans to garner to
the maximum extent possible minor civil works contracts. Subsequently SACS
and OPEV will focus on these same neighborhoods.
8.        Execution of civil works will be the responsibility of the Department
of Town-Planning within the Ministry of Public Works, Transport, and Town-Planning.
Household selection, plot allocation, distribution of urban occupancy permits,
and collection of monthly charges will be carried out by the Municipal Housing
Offices in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso. The water supply components will be
prepared and executed by the National Water Office.



55-                          ANNEX 18a
Page 3 of 3
9.        The Borrower will be the Government of Upper Volta which will on-
lend funds to the Department of Town-Planning, the Municipalities, and the
National Water Office. Completed physical assets will be transferred from
the Central Government to the Municipalities which will be responsible for
debt-servicing. On-lending terms are arranged on a case by case basis with
recipient institutions.
10.       The Project will improve the living conditions of some 100,000 low-
income persons in Ouagadougou and Bodo-Dioulasso. The economic rate of return
for squatter upgrading varies from 22.75% to 56.75%, according to neighborhood,
and from 42.75% to 65.55% for sites and services areas. The economic rate
of return for the water supply component is 70.75%
WAP-IDF
July 15, 1977



- 56 -
ANNEX 19
Artisan and Small and Medium Scale
Enterprises Project
OPEV Estimated Coats
$ Us
M/M       Foreign Cost      Local Cost      Total
I. Project Promotion and Follow-Up
Technicians (Voltaic) -   2/    108                           33,000           33,000
Student Stipends (Voltaic)-       360           -             66,100          66,100
Vehicles                           -           26,300           -             26.300
Operating Costs                                  -            18,100          18,100
26,300       117,200          143,500
II. Training
Training Coordinator (Expatri-
ate)      30         120,000          -              120,000
Training Coordinators (Voltaic)-.!  72          _              52,000         52,000
Operating Costs                    -            -               2,000           2.000
Seminars (8)                                   80,000         -               80,000
200,000          54,000        254,000
397,500
(Plus Contingency)          420,000
1/ Monthly salary CFAF 75,000
2/ Monthly stipend CFAF 45,000
3/ Monthly salary CFAF
WAP-IDF
July 15, 1977



Annex 20
Artisan and Small and Medium Scale
Enterprises Project
CNPAR Estimated Costs
US$
M/M      Foreign Cost      Local Cost      Total
I. Training Component
Project Coordinator (Expatriate)  24         96,000                           96,000
Trainer: Building Skills
(Expatriate) L'          12         48,000               _8,000
Short Term Consultants             24        22,000               -           22,000
Administrative Expenses            36           -              20,900         20,930
Five Team Trainers(Voltaic)       108           -               8,000          d,000
Student Stipends                  828           -              20,700         20,700
Construction: neighborhood
branches             -           -               30,000         30,000
Contingencies                      -            -               4,200          4,200
166,000           83,800        2U9,800
II. SACS: Follow-Up
Director (Expatriate)              24        96,000              -            96,000
Accountant (Voltaic)               24           -               L,700         L4,700
SACS Agents                        84          -               11,500         11,500
Construction Storerooms            -            -              15,300         15,300
Vehicles                           -         14,000              -            14,000
Operating Co0ts                    -            -              19,400         19,4oo
110,000           50,900        160,900
III. SACS: Credit-in-Kind             -         300,000 2/       100,000        400,000
_~~~~
576,000          234,700        810,700
Plus contingencies 820,000
/ It is likely an experienced Voltaic will be found £or this post, reducing the
budgeted cost.
2 Estimate, including indirect foreign costs.
WAP-IDF
July 15,1977



- 58 -
ANNEX 21
Page 1 of 6
UPPER VOLTA
Terms of Reference for
a Study of
Government Industrial Policies
1.   The objective of the study would be to provide information
of direct and immediate use to policy-makers in Upper Volta.
Accordingly, the level of technical sophistication appropriate
to a research paper is not required: it will be sufficient to
make a convincing analysis of the main factors in a situation and
to demonstrate the order of magnitude of their importance. On
the other hand, it is essential that the final report should be
fully comprehensible to an intelligent layman, who is not an
economist or other technical specialist. Supporting material may
be presented in a technical annex, but all important points affect-
ing policy issues should be clearly and fully explained in the main
text of the consultants' report.
2.   For the purposes of these terms of reference:
"Informal sector" refers to those enterprises which usually
operate without formal book-keeping, where many of the workers
are "lapprentis" or help part-time, and where the institutional
structure of the business has not been formalized. Examples
might include tailoring enterprises, as well as traditional
artisans.
"Very small-scale modern sector" is used to cover informal
sector enterprises which use essentially a modern technology.
Examples would include metal-working shops using electric arc-
welding machines, tailoring shops with power sewing-machines, etc.
3.   The study would consist of three distinct parts.  They have
heen grouped together into one study only because of the large
common element in the data-collection required for all three pur-
poses. The three parts of the study are as follows:
(a) What is the current structure of incentives to industry
of all kinds in Upper Volta? How do incentives vary
according to the product being produced or the size of
the enterprise producing them? How far are industrial
enterprises of different sizes effectively competitive
in Upper Volta? What recommendations would the consul-
tants make in the light of the evidence they have
presented?
(b) How far are there serious market constraints upon the
artisan and very small-scale modern sectors? How far
would a lowering of their cost structure, or improve-
ment of their marketing ability affect the present



- 59 -                          ANNEX 21
Page 2 of 6
market situation? Could improved product design
or new products expand the size of the market
available to this sector? What recommendations would
the consultants make as to specific actions which the
authorities would take, or specific products which
could be made?
(c) What method or methods of industrial project analysis
should be used by various governmental agencies involved
in the industrial sector (Direction de l'Industrie et de
l'Artisanat, BND, OPEV, CNDI, CNPAR)? How should they
coordinate their activities in industrial promotion?
3.   Detailed terms of reference are as follows:
A
(i) The consultants will analyze the structure of protection
accorded to different industrial activities in thLge
cases where no special privileges are granted (i.e.
"en regime de droit commun"). For this purpose, they
will make use of the official Tarif des Douanes, in
connection with realistic estimates of the raw materials
and inputs required to make various products. They will
estimate the gain or loss of government revenue of all
kinds, when imports are replaced by local production.
In undertaking this analysis, they will take account of
the fact that actual selling prices for locally made
products may be below the duty-paid price of the finished
import, so that utilized levels of protection may be lower
than those derived from the Tarif des Douanes. On the
other hand, in certain cases, restrictions on the importa-
tion of competing finished products may permit higher
actual selling prices for locally made products than the
duty-paid price of the finished import. The consumer
gain or loss from lower or higher prices under local
production than when the finished product is imported,
should be set against government revenue effects. Again,
to the extent that the consultants may discover that it
is normal for large firms to obtain materials at conces-
sional rates of duty, or to obtain an increase in
protection against imports of the finished product, at
the moment of establishing operations in Upper Volta,
they should take these factors into account. In other
words, study of the Tarif des Douanes will be confined
to its practical rather than its theoretical effects,
and only those products of practical relevance for
industrial policy need be considered, (i.e., customs
items which cover materials needed for potential or
actual local production, or which cover finished products
that are, or might conceivably be, locally produced);



- 60 -                          ANNEX 21
Page 3 6f 6
(ii) The consultants will analyze the structure of protection
accorded to different industrial activities in each of
the individual cases where special privileges have been
granted, (i.e., "en regime d'agrement). For this pur-
pose they will make use of those documents which set out
the agreements made between the Upper Volta Government
and the individual enterprises, and which specify the
tax exemptions or reductions of duty to be enjoyed. In
those cases where tax exemptions or reductions of import
duty apply on a declining scale over a given period, the
consultants shall consider the level of protection at
various time intervals; e.g., initially, after five years,
after ten years. They shall also consider the government
revenue effects of local production en regime d'agrement
instead of (a) importation, (b) regime de droit commun,
at the same time intervals. However, where local
production yields a selling price to the consumer below
the price of the duty-paid import of the equivalent
finished product, this factor will be taken into account.
In some cases, it might be useful to relate government
revenue effects to the amount of employment created, or
other benefits from the existence of local production.
To the extent that evidence currently exists, the
consultants should review what happens to the fiscal
situation of an enterprise on the expiry of the original
concessionary period. Does the enterprise continue, "en
regime de droit commun"? Or is a further concessionary
period negotiated? If so, what is the level of protection
resulting from these new arrangements? What are the
government revenue effects of local production as compared
to importation? How does this relate to employment created?
(iii) The consultants will examine whether enterprises of differ-
ent sizes are effectively in competition in Upper Volta,
and if so, for the manufacture of which products. Such
competition might arise either (a) because enterprises
of different sizes manufacture similar products, or (b)
because products made by enterprises of different sizes,
although physically these products are different, serve
the same function for a significant class of Voltaique
consumers. (For example, a plastic bowl might serve
the same function as traditional earthenware). In cases
where such competition arises, or may arise in the future,
the consultants will examine the different incentives or
taxes which affect enterprises of different sizes, for
any size of enterprise which for the product in question
is effectively engaged in competition with an enterprise
of another size. According to the product, this could
involve enterprises spanning the scale from very large
scale modern enterprises, (e.g., a large food-processing
plant) down to the artisan working in the city or part-
time in a village. In the task of analysis, the consultants



- 61 -                           ANNEX 21
Page 4 of 6
will take into account all those factors which in
realistic terms affect enterprises of different sizes.
These might include, for large enterprises, ability to
obtain exemption from duty on the import of capital
equipment, ability to obtain a concessional reduction
in import duties on raw materials, ability to obtain
exemption from other taxation, and ability to obtain
preferential or favoured access to credit. For
enterprises in the informal sector, it might include
ability to avoid certain taxes, or to pay labour at
below the industrial minimum wage. The consultants
should also consider the likely effects of the intro-
duction of a Petit Code des Investissements in the
light of a realistic appraisal of the likely ability
of different sizes of enterprises (down to the traditional
artisan) to obtain access to the benefits of the Code.
The consultants should discuss the employment and other
effects of different policies in regard to the incentives
which in practice are available to different sizes of
enterprise, and make recommendations to government on
future policy. Such recommendations might cover both
the appropriate levels for normal and concessional rates
of import duty on capital equipment and raw materials,
and appropriate levels for normal and concessional rates
of other forms of taxation. They might also cover credit
policy, and the institutional framework for provision of
credit to enterprises of different sizes. Fields of
industrial activity to be considered in regard to compe-
tition between enterprises of different sizes might include
metal-working, household wares, furniture, clothing, food
products and beverages as well as other items.
(iv) In carrying out this study, it may well prove not to be
necessary to undertake a comprehensive analysis of all
enterprises and all products. The consultants should
rather proceed on a case study basis, and analyze those
sectors which are most likely to be of importance. If
the results varied little from case to case, then a fairly
small number of case studies might be sufficient. Con-
versely, if initial case studies indicated wide disparities
from case to case, from product to product, or from sector
to sector, then a rather more comprehensive approach might
indeed prove to be unavoidable. In such circumstances the
consultants should concentrate on the sectors of greatest
importance, in terms of output, government revenue and
employment, and give a reasonable estimate of the range
of results found in different cases.
B
(i) The consultants would consider how far there are market
constraints affecting the artisan and very small-scale



- 62 -                            ANNEX 21
Page 5 of 6
modern sectors. In doing so, the consultants would
estimate how far a change in the cost structure of
these sectors might alter the size of the market
effectively available to them. Possible changes in
the cost structure to be considered by the consultants
would include:
a) Any changes which might be desirable in tax and
incentive policy for different sizes of industry,
in the light of Study (A). This would include
changes in credit policy and in the credit insti-
tutional framework (which might for example permit
use of improved equipment, say under leasing or
hire purchase arrangements, or production for stock
as well as to order);
b) Possible improvements in purchasing arrangements;
c) Feasible increases in labour productivity, or
reduction in materials wastage.
(ii) To the extent that size of market did seem to be a
significant constraint for these sectors, the consultants
would advise on:
a) Possible improvements to marketing arrangements
(e.g., selling through a larger organization,
construction by the government of in-town facilities
to house both manufacture and selling space for very
small-scale industry).
b) Possible upgrading of products (in terms of design,
finish, materials used, etc). For which products
would such efforts create a significant new market
in Upper Volta (or abroad) for products of the
artisan or very small-scale modern sectors?
c) Possible new products which have interesting market
potential and which could feasibly and economically
be produced by the artisan or very small-scale modern
sectors?
d) Possible changes in government practice or policy, for
example in regard to the government's own purchasing
arrangements.
c
(i) The consultants would consider and give recommendations as
to what method or methods of industrial project analysis
should be used by the various governmental agencies
involved in the industrial sector, (broadly defined so as
to include artisans). In particular they should consider



- 63 -                       ANNEX 21
Page 6 of 6
(i) how far all agencies could adopt a unified system;
(ii) whether financial analysis needed to be supple-
mented by an economic analysis, or an analysis of
employment effects, and if so, for analyses done by
which agencies; (iii) how far the factor of competition
between artisans, the very-small modern sector, and
larger-scale enterprises needed specific consideration
in project analysis; (iv) how far, in regard to project
analysis, implementation of an integrated industrial
sector policy, to cover enterprises of all sizes, might
require improved coordination between the various govern-
ment agencies involved in industrial sector operations,
and what specific recommendations could be made on this
matter.
(ii) The consultant would also make recommendations as to how
their findings could be used for the implementat_on of
the provisions in the IDA Artisan and Small-Scale Enter-
prise Project for the training of the staff of BND, CNPAR,
OPEV, Direction de l'Industrie et de l'Artisanat ant CNDI
in project analysis.
4.   In carrying out their studies, the consultants will take note if
relevant existing documentation, available from the Direction de
l'Industrie et de l'Artisanat, OPEV, ONPE, etc., for example:
Enguete sur la petite industrie et les entreprises
artisanales a Ouagadougou et Bobo-Dioulasso comme
base pou le developpement d'un programme de promotion,
FGU-KRONBERG report for OPEV, June 1975.
Analyse et Diagnostic du Secteur non Structure a
Ouagadougou, ILO for ONPE, February 1977.



- 64 -                                ANNEX 22 a
UPPER VOLTA
CENTRE NATIONAL DE PERFECTIONNEMENT DES ARTISANS RURAUX
Terms of Reference
Project Advisor
I. General
Job Title: Project Advisor
Duration:  Two years beginning November 1, 1977
Qualifications: Extensive experience in clesigning and implementing training
programs for informal sector artisans. Project management
capabilities are vital and an ability to devise and evaluate
locally appropriate technologies is desirable.
Language: French necessary; English optional.
II. The Institution
CNPAR is a Government agency founded in 1971 to provide training
and assistance to rural artisans. Recently its mandate has been widened to
include informal sector artisans in urban areas as well. CNPAR's training
programs include five skill areas (woodworking, blacksmithing, well digging,
brickmaking, and mechanical repairs); technical assistance and financial help
(credit-in-kind) is provided by a mobile advisory service (SACS); production
of locally appropriate agricultural implements is carried out by an autonomous
production unit (ARCOMA). CNPAR is located in Ouagadougou.
III. Job Description
Building on past efforts CNPAR is about to embark on a new program of
training urban artisans and expanding the ongoing SACS program to reinforce
existing operations in rural areas and develop new ones in urban areas. The
Project Advisor will, in close collaboration with CNPAR's Director General,
devise and implement the urban training program, including the construction
of low cost workshops and new skill training courses, and advise the SACS
advisor on expanding its operations. As part of the overall project design
the advisor will have responsibilities to coordinate activities with other
participating agencies, BND and OPEV.
IV.  Terms and Conditions
Finance for the post is assured by IDA as part of a $ 4.0 million
project to assist Voltaic enterprises. The candidate chosen must be acceptable
to IDA; the terms and conditions of the contract will be negotiated between
CNPAR and the candidate with the review of IDA. Terms and conditions should be
substantially in accord with those offered other expatriates in Upper Volta.
November, 1977



- 65 -                              ANNEX 22 b
UPPER VOLTA
CENTRE NATIONAL DE PERFECTIONNEMENT DES ARTISANS RURAUX
Terms of Reference
SACS Advisor
I. General
Job Title: SACS Advisor
Duration: Two years beginning Spring, 1978
Qualifications: Extensive experience in training and advising informal sector
artisans, preferably with experience in managing a follow up
credit-in-kind system for them. Experience in basic accounting
and inventory control would be essential.
Language: French necessary; English optional.
II. The Institution
CNPAR is a Government agency founded in 1971 to provide training and
assistance to rural artisans. Recently its mandate has been widened to include
informal sector artisans in urban areas as well. CNPAR's training programs
include five skill areas (woodworking, blacksmithing, well digging, brickmaking,
and mechanical repairs); technical assistance and financial help (credit-in-kind)
is provided by a mobile advisory service (SACS); production of locally appropriate
agricultural implements is carried out by an autonomous production unit (ARCOMA).
CNPAR is located in Ouagadougou.
III. Job Description
SACS's past operations will, as part of an IDA project, be reinforced
in rural areas and expanded to urban neighborhoods. Credit-in-kind material will
be both purchased and stored by SACS for distribution. The SACS advisor will
be responsible in coordination with the SACS director for purchasing, storing
and lending supplies. Repayment of loans will establish a revolving fund to
permit future purchase of goods. BND, the local development bank, will manage
IDA funds for CNPAR, necessitating close collaboration with BND. Scheduling
and timing of artisanal supervision is the responsibility of the SACS advisor
and his counterpart, including loan collection procedures, periodicity of visits,
etc.
IV. Terms and Conditions
Finance for the post is assured by IDA as part of a $ 4.0 million
project to assist Voltaic enterprises. The candidate chosen must be acceptable
to IDA; the terms and conditions of the contract will be negotiated between
CNPAR and the candidate with the review of IDA. Terms and conditions should be
substantially in accord with those offered other expatriates in Upper Volta.
November, 1977



- 66 -                          ANNEX 22 c
Page 1 of 2
UPPER VOLTA
BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Terms of Reference
Training Advisor
I. General
Job Title: Bank Training Advisor
Duration:  One year, starting approximately March 31,  1978
Qualifications: Experience in designing and implementing management and
financial training courses. Practical experience in a
financial institution is desirable; the candidate should
be able to design courses to upgrade accounting and book-
keeping skills as well as seminars to motivate and train
middle managers.
Language: French necessary; English optional.
Il. The Institution
BND is a multi-purpose government development bank in Ouagadougou,
Upper Volta. It was founded in 1961 to provide credit to consumers, agriculture,
industry and commerce. It has a limited number of equity participations.
Most resources are long-term loans from the Central Bank and external bilateral
and multilateral sources.' Through its headquarters and four agencies BND
manages some 20,000 loan accounts, including a number of operations for govern-
ment account. The staff numbers 138 of whom 48 are professionals. Major depart-
ments include Administration and Finance, Studies, Operations, and Recovery
and Follow-up.
III. Job Description
BND's senior management faces significant difficulties in developing
an effective staff to deal with a large number of disparate operations. Skill
development is necessary especially in accounting, bookkeeping and internal
control. For middle managers there is a need to develop management skills,
especially those designed to stimulate staff and organize work. The candidate
should be able to design and implement courses in basic financial skills and
middle management skills. He should also be prepared in conjunction with
personnel of OPEV, a local training agency, to ensure that professional staff
of BND receive on a regular basis the necessary training. He will collaborate
closely with BND's computer system advisor, and his own counterpart. At the
conclusion of his term he will be responsible for submitting a training manual.
IV. Terms and Conditions
Finance for the post is assured by IDA as part of a $ 4.0 million
project to assist Voltaic enterprises. The candidate chosen must be acceptable to



- 67 -                              ANNEX 22 c
Page 2 of 2
IDA; the terms and conditions of the contract will be negotiated between
BND and the candidate with the review of IDA. Terms and conditions should
be substantially in accord with those offered other expatriates in Upper-
Volta.
November, 1977



- 68 -                         ANNEX 22 d
UPPER VOLTA
BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Terms of Reference
Accountant
I. General
Job Title: Accounting Advisor
Duration:  Two years beginning approximately June 1, 1978
Qualifications: Experience in financial accounting at the working level
preferably in a Francophone commercial bank.
Language: French necessary; English optional.
II. The Institution
BND is a multi-purpose government development bank in Ouagadougou,
Upper Volta. It was founded in 1961 to provide credit to consumers, agri-
culture, industry and commerce. It has a limited number of equity partici-
pations. Most resources are long-term loans from the Central Bank and external
bilateral and multilateral sources. Through its headquarters and four agencies
BND manages some 20,000 loan accounts, including a number of operations for
government account. The staff numbers 138 of whom 48 are professionals.
Major departments include Administration and Finance, Studies, Operations, and
Recovery and Follow-up.
III. Job Description
BND has faced significant delays in producing its annual accounts.
These delays result from lack of depth in accounting staff and slow processing
of computer records. The objective cf the accounting advisor is to assist the
chief accountant in overcoming the delays in the development and processing
of data and in collaboration with the computer system expert bring up to date
BND's accounts. He will also be responsible for improving disbursement proce-
dures, loan collections and loan recovery systems. The accounting advisor will
work closely with the Chief Accountant and Director of Administration and
Finance; he will assist BND prepare for its first external audit, which will
be carried out in the fourth quarter of 1978, and will prepare an accounting
systems manual.
IV. Terms and Conditions
Finance for the post is assured by IDA as part of a $ 4.0 million
project to assist Voltaic enterprises. The candidate chosen must be acceptable
to IDA; the terms and conditions of the contract will be negotiated between
BND and the candidate with the review of IDA. Terms and conditions should be
substantially in accord with those offered other expatriates in Upper Volta.
November, 1977



- 69 -                              ANNEX 22 e
Page 1 of 2
UPPER VOLTA
BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Terms of Reference
Computer System Expert
I. General
Job Title: Computer System Advisor
Duration: 1 1/2 years starting on or before January 1, 1978
Qualifications: Experience in computer work in financial institutions,
including programming, encoding, and processing data, system
evaluation and training of staff. Knowledge of IBM 360 and
compatible peripheral equipment is necessary.
Language: French necessary; English optional.
II.  The Institution
BND is a multi-purpose government development bank in Ouagadougou,
Upper Volta. It was founded in 1961 to provide credit to consumers, agriculture,
industry and commerce. It has a limited number of equity participations.
Most resources are long-term loans from the Central Bank and external bilateral
and multilateral sources. Through its headquarters and four agencies BND
manages some 20,000 loan accounts, including a number of operations for govern-
ment account. The staff numbers 138 of whom 48 are professionals. Major depart-
ments include Administration and Finance, Studies, Operations, and Recovery
and Follow-up.
III. Job Description
BND's accounts are processed at a centralized government computer
facility (CENATRIN) on the basis of tapes prepared by the staff of BND. Accounts
are currently one year behind owing to delays in handling and improper encoding
of data. The objectives of the computer systems advisor are to: (i) analyze
BND's information and computer system and make recommendations to improve it;
(ii) assist in bringing up to date BND's accounts; (iii) put into place with
a counterpart a control system and work procedure manual to ensure timely pro-
duction of accounts. To perform this task the person chosen must understand
information systems, encoding of data and suitability of alternative programs
for an institution of BND's character. He should be skilled at training both
key punch operators and their supervisor. He will work under the Director of
Finance and Administration and closely with the Director General, the Chief
Accountant and Head of CENATRIN. He will also collaborate with the Training
Advisor, Accounting Advisor, and his counterpart.



- 70 -
ANNEX 22 e
Page 2 of 2
IV. Terms and Conditions
Finance for the post is assured by IDA as part of a $ 4.0 million
project to assist Voltaic enterprises. The candidate chosen must be acceptable
to IDA; the terms and conditions of the contract will be negotiated between
BND and the candidate with the review of IDA.  Terms and conditions should
be substantially in accord with those offered other expatriates in Upper Volta.
November, 1977



- 71 -
ANNEX 22 f
Page 1 of 2
UPPER VOLTA
OFFICE DE PROMOTION DES ENTREPRISES VOLTAIQUE
Terms of Reference
Training Advisor
I. General
Job Title: Training Advisor
Duration: Two years, starting on or about January 1, 1978
Qualifications: Experience in developing and implementing business training
courses, including accounting, financial control, marketing
and management. Experience in dealing with small business
in developing countries is desirable.
Language: French necessary, English optional.
II. The Institution
OPEV was created in 1970 with an initial objective of promoting and
assisting small Voltaic enterprises in the building trades sector. Subsequently
the range of its activities widened to include other skill training, accounting
courses and investment promotion. OPEV also manages an equity participation
fund and an industrial estate in Ouagadougou. Branches exist in two other cities
of Upper Volta, Bobo-Dioulasso and Koudougou. OPEV is supported by Government
budget contributions as well as bilateral and multilateral agencies. In order
to meet the needs of Voltaic entrepreneurs OPEV is embarking on an expanded
program of business courses and seminars, follow-up of entrepreneurs and project
promotion.
III. Job Description
The Training Advisor will be directly responsible to OPEV's Director
General and work closely with counterpart training coordinators in Ouagadougou
and Bobo-Dioulasso. In coordination with these persons he will devise and
program training courses and seminars appropriate to the needs of Voltaic entre-
preneurs and staff of OPEV and BND; he will develop a work study program of
one year duration for selected Voltaic high school graduates, including courses
at OPEV and practical experience in enterprises. He will work closely with
existing expatriate personnel in OPEV to ensure smooth coordination of courses.
IV. Terms and Conditions
Finance for the post is assured by IDA as part of a $ 4.0 million
project to assist Voltaic enterprises. The candidate chosen must be acceptable
to IDA; the terms and conditions of the contract will be negotiated between



- 72 -                          ANNEX 22 f
Page 2 of 2
OPEV and the candidate with the review of IDA. Terms and conditions should
be substantially in accord with those offered other expatriates in Upper Volta.
November,1977



- 73 -                            ANNEX 22 g
CNPAR Revolving Fund
Credit Terms and Disbursement Procedures
1.        The creation of the $ 400,000 permanent fund for artisanal credit
would meet the credit needs of approximately one thousand rural and urban
artisans. Credit will be made available in goods (credit-in-kind) for three
types of needs: (1) raw materials; (2) equipment; and (3) buildings.
Loans for all three purposes carry an interest rate of 8.5%; terms will vary
by type of investment and entrepreneur. Raw material credit-in-kind loans will
have a maximum term of one year with six months grace. Equipment loans will
have a maximum term of four years with one year grace. For building construction
the maximum will be ten years with three years grace.
2.        Disbursement for both types of credit will be handled for a fee
through an account established by CNPAR at BND. For credit-in-kind supplies,
materials bulk purchased by CNPAR will be paid by an advance from BND. CNPAR's
bills of sale and proof of payment will be submitted to BND which will, on a
regular basis, transmit these documents to IDA for reimbursement. For building
credits CNPAR will prepare a list of entrepreneurs eligible for such loans and
transmit it to BND which will again advance the necessary resources. A list
of entrepreneurs loaned to, and proof od disbursement, will be submitted
regularly to IDA for refinance. Submission of both types of request for reim-
bursement will be done on a regular monthly or quarterly basis.
November, 1977



- 74 -
ANNEX 23
UPPER VOLTA
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$'000)
Fiscal Year
Cumulative
1978
3rd quarter                    100
4th quarter                    100
200
1979
lst quarter                    150
2nd quarter                    200
3rd quarter                    225
4th quarter                    250
1025
1980
lst quarter                    350
2nd quarter                    500
3rd quarter                    600
4th quarter                    550
3025
1981
lst quarter                    400
2nd quarter                    300
3rd quarter                    100
4th quarter                     75
3900
1982
lst quarter                     50
2nd quarter                     50
4000
'JuPlyI?1977



t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -.-
REPUBLJC  OF  UPPER  VOLTA
TRANSPORTATION   SYSTEM                                                                        ._-                         r rtreoye 
V~~~                                               ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ orloy  V,m.o e ssp e,spnfl Ser WU44Notk PMftthdJh rroP 
StouStttt,tOts    tV   ~  ttsot004   th pa   tf/Rt WoRd 6at sp/s
NS      PRtMARY ROADS, Poved or bein,3 paved 1974 -1977                                                  Ar,bird.
Ni1
PRIMARY ROADS5 GravAi                                                            DJI
D2      SECcLNDARY POCADS,EarfW                                                      DO Niamey
'*  A'tRFIELDS                                      S               
i)      4NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                        ni
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                      N                                                                      \
ORjOOUAHIGOUD;                             Ko goussiGO       BARSALOGHOO/A.A
e4:w  Z   Touaoné            i                             YCA                     at ~~~~~~      ~      ~      ~~~~~ ~        ~ ~~~~~~Bogondé  *>     
/  Di mbOo               t       <0;                    ~                         p            DA A         I
Feb;>       No un                                                                                      so                                       KANHA 1z<X S n\2   _  
un~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Kan' nu                                      oOUPELA .
0  SAFANE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                                                   /R
o *_e  A/>                                                *                                                                                                                       NIGERTInA] >5ubou   \    )KOMBISSIRI  R MA N
(oN'dorgola     B      h,so                y                                                                  G.  ko>,. /))tENKODOGO t 
) \DIEBOUGOU.                                                                     9 50    5 r  25 
*I  V>  OX1XNir Rgolok   YJ > C    OS                        T.                                                                                             4/ LORd   I-E UA ?     L R
ftX                                Klmpti    \   ,                                i                     ~                     t                stAURK.r,  't|o-
; I v  o  R Y    C O .&f W                                               1          >    D ''                                w             j 8 e                  X               9 A~~~Dao  I,4



