CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 759 UV
Project Agreement
(Artisan, Small and Medium-Scale
Enterprise Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
and
OFFICE DE PROMOTION DE L'ENTREPRISE VOLTAIQUE
and
CENTRE NATIONAL DE PERFECTIONNEMENT DES ARTISANS RURAUX
Dated January 12, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 759 UV
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 12, 1978, between the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the AssniAtion)
BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (hereinafter called BND),
OFFICE DE PROMOTION DE L'ENTREPRISE VOLTAIQUE (hereinafter called
OPEV) and CENTRE NATIONAL DE PERFECTIONNEMENT DES ARTISANS RURAX
(hereinafter called CNPAR):
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Upper Volta(hnreinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to lend
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
four million dollars ($4,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but on]y on condition
that BND, OPEV and CNPAR agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereintafter set forth; and
WHEREAS BND, OPEV and CNPAR, in consideration of the Accoci-
ation's entering into the Develupuent Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, have each agreed to undertake th- nhligations herein-
after set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parLie   hit-tt hereby -gree as follows:
ARTiCLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01 Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development CiediL Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respe-rivep meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execu-tion of the Project;
Mafiagemen! a!id Opcrtius of BNID, OPEV and CNPAR
Section 2.01. BND, OPEV and CNPAR shall each carry out its
part of the Project de4sctibsd in Section 3O1 of the Development
Credit Agreement, and coIduet its operations and affairs with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
economic, financial and investment standards and practices, with
qualified and experienced management and in aciordance with its
respective Statute and Statement of Poliy.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, BND shall submit
Investment Projects to the Association for approval or for author-
ization for withdrawals to be made from the Credit Account.
(b) (i) When submitting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) or an Investment to the Association for approval, BND
shall furnish to the Association an application, in form satisfac-
tory to the Association, together with a description of the
Beneficiary and of the Investment Project to be financed there-
under (including a description of the expenditures for such
Investment Project proposed to be financed by BND), and an ap-
praisal of the Investment Project, the proposed terms and condi-
tions of the Sub-loan or Investment, including the schedule of
amortization of the Sub-loan, or of repayment to BND of the amount
to be used for the  Investment, and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request; and (ii) such appraisals
will include a calculation of the internal financial rate of
return and, in cases of import substitution, an evaluation of the
economic rate of return, established in accordance with guidelines
satisfactory to the Association.
(c) Each request by BND for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain a summary description of the Beneficiary
and the Investment Project (including a description of the expen-
ditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit)
and the terms and conditions of such free-limit Sub-loan, includ-
ing the schedule of amortization therefor.
(d) The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment
Project financed by BND shall provide for an appropriate period
of grace, and, unless the Association and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, (i) shall not extend beyond fifteen years from
the date of this Agreement, and (ii) shall provide for approx-
imately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of
principal and interest or approximately equal semi-annual, or more
frequent, payments of principal.
(e) Except as the Association and BND shall otherwise agree,
BND shall submit applications for approval of Investment Projects
pursuant to the provisions of paragragh (b) of this Section and
requests for authorizations to withdraw from the Credit Account
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section on or
before December 30, 1980.


﻿- 3 -
(f) In the case of Beneficiaries which are medium-scale
enterprises, BND shall require such Beneficiaries to finance
at least 10% of the Investment Project cost out of their own
resources.
Section 2.03. CNPAR shall:
(a) Open and maintain a separate account and deposit
into it:
(i) such funds as the Borrower shall make available
to CNPAR pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) (i) of
the Development Credit Agreement for purposes
of financing Sub-loans made by CNPAR;
(ii) any other funds made available to CNPAR for
purposes of the Project; and
(iii) any funds accruing to CNPAR from the carrying
out of the Project.
(b) Use the funds referred to in paragraphs (a) (i) and
(ii) hereof exclusively to make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries on the
following terms and conditions:
(i) payment of the outstanding principal amount over
a period of:
- not more than one year (including   ; orce period
of not more than six months) i the case of
Sub-loans to finance raw material,
- not more than four years (including a grace
period of not more than one year) in the case of
Sub-loans to finance equipment; and
- not more than ten years (including a grace
period of not more than three years) in the
case of Sub-loans to finance building con-
struction.
(ii) interest at a rate of 8-1/2% per annum on the
outstanding principal amount.


﻿(c) Use the funds referred to in paragraph (a) (iii) hereof
to make loans on the terms and conditions set forth in paragraph
(b) above.
(d) Furnish to the Association, for its review and promptly
upon approval, the first ten Sub-loans approved by CNPAR.
(e) Prepare, and furnish to the Association, semi-annual
forecasts of CNPAR's credit operations satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation.
Section 2.04. (a) BND and CNPAR each undertakes that, unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan or, in the
case of BND, any Investment will be made on terms whereby BND or
CNPAR, as the case may be, shall obtain, by written agreement or
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Association and of BND or CNPAR, including, in
the case of any such Sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be
appropriate in the case of any such Investment: (i) the right to
require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the Investment
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to main-
tain adequate records; (ii) the right to require that the goods
and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan or
Investment be used exclusively in the carrying out of the In-
vestment Project; (iii) the right of the Association and of BND or
CNPAR to inspect such goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in the Investment Project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv) the right to
require that the Beneficiary take out and maintain such insurance,
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent
with sound business practice and that, without any limitation upon
the foregoing, such insurance cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Sub-loan or Investment to the place of use
or installation, and that any indemnity thereunder be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair
such goods; (v) the right to obtain all such information as the
Association or BND or CNPAR, as the case may be, shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary and (vi) the
right of BND or CNPAR, as the case may be, to suspend or terminate
the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the
Sub-loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obli-
gations under its agreement with BND or CNPAR.


﻿- 5 -
(b) BND and CNPAR shall each exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to (i) protect the
interests of the Association and of BND or CNPAR, (ii) comply
with its obligations under this Agreement and, in the case of
BND, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Section 2.05. BND, OPEV and CNPAR, as the case may be,
shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Sub-loans and Investments, the Project, the
Beneficiaries, the Investment Projects, the Sub-loans and the
Investments.
Section 2.06. BND shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, BND shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of assigning, or amending, abrogating
or waiving any provision of, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. Except as the Association and BND or OPEV
or CNPAR, as the case may be, shall otherwise agree, BND, OPEV and
CNPAR: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose
of any of its property or assets, except in the ordinary course
of business and (ii) shall take all action necessary to maintain
its corporate existence and right to carry on operations and to
acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 2.08. BND shall cause each of its Subsidiaries (if
any) to observe and perform their respective obligations under
this Agreement to the extent to which the same may be made appli-
cable thereto as though such obligations were binding upon each of
such Subsidiaries.
Section 2.09. BND and OPEV shall not amend its respective
Statement of Policy except in agreement with the Association,
and shall exchange views with the Association on any proposal to
modify their Statement of Policy.
Section 2.10. BND, OPEV and CNPAR shall not later than
January 1, 1978, jointly establish and maintain, in a form and
with powers, responsibilities and membership satisfactory to
the Association, a committee to ensure coordination of their
respecrtiv action in the carrying out of the Project.


﻿- 6 -
Section 2.11. BND and OPEV shall no later than January 1,
1978 enter into an agreement satisfactory to the Association
which shall, inter alia, provide for the establishment by BND and
OPEV of common criteria for appraising projects, and of specific
programs of cooperation by BND and OPEV in project identification
and financing and in providing technical support to small and
medium-scale enterprises.
Section 2.12. (a) In order to assist BND, OPEV and CNPAR
in carrying out their respective parts of the Projects, BND, OPEV
and CNPAR shall each employ consultants (including a training
advisor, an accounting expert and a systems expert for BND and
a training coordinator for OPEV) whose qualifications, experience
an4, terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Association.
(b) BND shall employ said training advisor, accounting
expert and systems expert and OPEV shall employ said training
coordinator not later than March 31, 1978.
(c) BND shall, not later than June 30, 1978, assign a local
counterpart each to said training advisor, accounting expert
and systems expert.
(d) OPEV shall, not later than June 30, 1978, assign two
local counterparts Lo said training coordinator.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01z BND, OPEV and CNPAR shall each maintain records
adequate to record the progress of the Project and, in the case of
BND and CNPAR, of each Investment Project (including the cost
thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices the respective operations and
financial condition of BND, OPEV and CNPAR and shall each enablc
the Association's representatives to examine such records.
Section 3.02. (a) BND shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(Ii) furnish to the Association as soon as availphle, hut in any


﻿-7-
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning its accounts and financial statements
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(b) OPEV and CNPAR shall furnish to the Association such
information concerning their accounts and financial statements as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association and BND shall other-
wise agree, BND shall not incur or permit any Subsidiary to incur
any debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the consolidated
debt of BND and all its Subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding
would exceed in the case of long-term debt five times, and in
the case of all debt twelve times, the consolidated capital and
surplus of BND and all its Subsidiaries. For the purpose of this
Section:
(a) The term "long-term debt" means any debt incurred by BND
or any Subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred, including debt assumed or guaran-
teed by BND or by a Subsidiary, and not guaranteed by the Borrower
nor rediscounted or otherwise financed by the Borrower.
(b) Wherever reference is made in this Section to the
incurring of debt, such reference shall include any modification
of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be
incurred (i) under a loan contract or agreement on the date
such loan contract or agreement is entered into and (ii) under a
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent the guaran-
teed debt is outstanding.
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of FCFA debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable in Upper Volta for the purposes
of servicing such debt.
(d) The term "consolidated debt of BND and all its Sub-
sidiaries" means the total amount of debt of BND and all its


﻿-8-
Subsidiaries excluding (i) debt owed by BND to any Subsidiary or
by any Subsidiary to BND or to any other Subsidiary and (ii) debt
referred to in paragraph (e) (ii) of this Section.
(e) The term "consolidated capital and surplus of BND and
all its Subsidiaries" means the aggregate of (i) the total unim-
paired paid-in capital, surplus and free reserves of BND and of
all its Subsidiarics after excluding therefrom such amounts as
shall represent equity interests of BND in any Subsidiary, or of
any such Subsidiary in BND or in any other Subsidiary, and (ii)
such amount of any loan which the Association may determine to be
included in the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower.
Section 3.04. BND shall not make any repayment in advance
of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of BND which,
in the judgment of the Association would materially affect BND's
ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 3.05. BND and CNPAR shall each take such steps
satisfactory to the Association as shall be necessary to protect
itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of
exchange between the various currencies (including FCFA) used in
its respective borrowing and lending operations.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. (a) The Association, BND, OPEV and CNPAR shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will
be accomplishod- To that end, the Association,BND, OPEV and
'NPAR shall from time to time, at the request of any party,
exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance by BND, OPEV and CNPAR
of their respective obligations under this Agreement and, in the
case of BND, under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administra-
tion, operations and financial condition of BND, OPEV and CNPAR
and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
(b) BND, OPEV and CNPAR shall each furnish to the Associ-
ation all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning its respective administration, operations and
financial condition (including in the case of BND information
concerning the administrative, operations and financial condition
of its Subsidiaries).


﻿- 9 -
Sect.ion 4.02. BND, OPEV and CNPAR shall each promptly inform
the Association of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the
performance by BND, OPEV or CNPAR of its respective obligations
under this Agreement or, in the case of BND, under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. BND, OPEV and CNPAR shall each enable the
Association's representatives to inspect the records referred to
in Section 3.01 of this Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association, BND, OPEV and CNPAR thereunder shall tcrminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate; or
(ii) a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify BND, OPEV and CNPAR this event,
and upon the giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obliga-
tions of the parties thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under Article VI of the Gcneral Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.


﻿- 10 -
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Associati3n:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   24423 (RCA) or
89658 (WUI)
For BND:
B.P. 148
Ouagadougou
Upper Volta
Cable address:                    Telex:
BANADEV                           5225 UV
Ouagadougou
For OPEV:
B.P. 94
Ouagadougou
Upper Volta
Cable address:
OPEV
Ouagadougou
For CNPAR:
B.P. 367
Ouagadougou
Upper Volta


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement or under Section 2.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement on behalf of or by BND,OPEV or CNPAR may be takcn or
executed in the case of BND by its Director General, in the
case of OPEV by its Director General and in the case of CNPAR by
its Director General or by such other person or persons as BND,
OPEV or CNPAR, as the case may be, shall designate in writing, and
BND, OPEV and CNPAR shall each furnish to the Association suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated GpecmLn
signature of each such person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
By /s/ Telesphore Yaguibou
Authorized Representative
OFFICE DE PROMOTION DE L'ENTREPRISE
VOLTAIQUE
By Is/ Telesphore Yaguibou
Authorized Representative
CENTRE NATIONAL DE PERFECTIONNEMENT
DES ARTISANS RURAUX
By Is/ Telesphore Yaguibou
Authorized Representative


