FILE        COPY                           Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1849-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR A
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
May 17, 1976
This document has a restricted distribufion and may be used by -recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwlse be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at May 4, 1976)
Rs 1.00      =   Paise 100
US$1.00      =   Rs 8.97
Rs 1.00      =   US$0.1115
Rs 1 million =   US$111,500
(Prior to eptember 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially
valued at a fixed Pound Sterling rate. Since then, it
has been fixed relative to a "basket" of currencies.
As these currencies are now floating, the US Dollar/
Rupee exchange rate is subject to change. Conver-
sions in the appraisal report were made at US$1 to
Rs. 8.75, which was the short-term average at the
time of preparation.)
UNUSUAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED IN THIS REPORT
ARDC    -     Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CWC     -     Central Warehousing Corporation
GOI     -     Government of India
HLDC    -     Haryana Land Development and Reclamation Corporation
HYV     -     High Yielding Varieties
ICAR    -     Indian Council for Agricultural Research
NSC     -     National Seeds Corporation
PMMC    -     Project Management and Monitoring Committee
SFCI    -     State Farms Corporation of India
SSC     -     State Seeds Corporation(s)
SSCA    -     State Seeds Certification Agency
SWC     -     State Warehousing Corporation(s)
TDC     -     Tarai Development Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO INDIA FOR THE
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to India in an amount equivalent to US$25 million to help finance expansion
and development of India's seed industry. The loan would have a term of 20
years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2% per annum. The
proceeds of the loan would be channelled two ways. The bulk of proceeds
(US$18 million) would be channelled through the Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation (ARDC, formerly ARC) to commercial banks for financ-
ing sub-borrowers' investments in seed processing, production and storage
facilities. Bank funds for seed technology research, quality control, train-
ing and technical assistance, and canal remodelling (US$7 million) would be
channeled by GOI to the institutions involved. Relending arrangements and
terms are discussed below (paragraph 55) and in Annex III.
1/
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(1073-IN dated March 29, 1976), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 2, 1976. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size and diversity; the country is divided into more than 20 states with
a population of some 600 million and over 60 languages. The country's poverty
and inadequate domestic savings, together with a net transfer of external
resources averaging over the past five years only about US$1.20 per person
per annum, have Imposed sharp limitations on the rate of growth. Account must
be taken, also, of the uncertainties imposed by the erratic availability of
water. A bad monsoon, which is likely to occur almost two years out of every
five, has a pervasive influence over the entire economy and can wipe out the
results of years of efforts. Thus, the annual growth of national income over
the last five years (1971/72 - 1975/76), which included two consecutive mon-
soon failures, has averaged only 2% per annum, less than the rate of popula-
tion increase.
4.         Since independence, progress has been impressive on many fronts,
but disappointing on others, and generally has fallen short of India's mas-
sive needs. The growth of the socio-economic infrastructure (transport,
1/   Part I of this report is identical to Part I of the President's
Report for a Second Line of Credit to the Industrial Development Bank
of India (Report No. P-1837-IN) distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 6, 1976.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2-
education, health services, etc.) has been impressive, but has often been
achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality. Many
industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful,
but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated well
below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and structural
change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments in many other
parts o'f the world, but in other regions there has been stagnation and possibly
even decline.  Although national income has increased in most years, there has
been in general little impact upon the living standards of the vast masses of
the urban and rural population. 'In recent years, the Government has initiated
a variety of programs specifically directed toward helping the lower income
strata, which - conservatively measured - consist of some 200 million people
with incomes of less than US$60 per head per year.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.   Agriculture
remains the. dominant sector, with its share of national product declining
only gradually from about 50% to 42% over the last twenty years. The share
of industry has increased only slowly and, since the late 1960s, has remained
approximately constant at about 23%. There has, however, been a shift in the
composition of industrial production, with consumer, intermediate, and capital
goods now contributing about one third each, compared with an overwhelming
preponderance of consumer goods 25 years ago.
Recent Trends
6.        India entered 1975/76 having been through one of the most difficult
periods since Independence. Progress in dealing with long-term development
problems had been limited by poor crops, the dramatic shifts against India in
the terms of trade, and inflation. Adjustments to these immediate difficul-
ties thus became the principal preoccupation in economic management. However,
with the support of favorable weather and additional foreign assistance, it
now appears that India has successfully weathered the problems of the recent
past; once again there is hope for an upturn in the growth rate of the economy.
7.        Most important among the favorable factors in 1975/76 was a bumper
harvest which followed years of poor or modest agricultural 6utput. Food-
grain production last year, estimated at around 114 million tons, exceeded
the previous record of 1970/71 by 6%. Oilseeds, sugarcane and cotton also
reached new production peaks and provided ample'supplies for the agro-
industries. Secondly, deficiencies in the supply of basic commodities and of
infrastructural inputs such as energy and transport, which had been prevalent
in the past, have been eased. Electricity generatin,t and domestic production
of coal, oil, cement and steel all increased by over 10% during 1975/76.
Finally, the increased supply of agricultural and industrial products and of
services, together with the demand restraint imposed by the Government since
mid-1974, put a stop to inflation. In 1974/75 the Wholesale Price'Index had
risen by 23%; in 1975/76 it remained unchanged.
8.        On the balance of payments front in 1975/76, some of the basic
problems of the previous two years remained. In particular, the terms of
trade, which had deteriorated significantly over the previous two years, did



not improve and most probably moved even further against India. Nevertheless,
there were a number of encouraging developments. -Firstly, the build-up of
foodgrain stocks during the year will provide a buffer against the impact of
a future crop failure on the balance of payments. Secondly, although export
earnings rose only 6%, with high volume growth being offset by falling prices,
import growth was also less than expected. The value of petroleum imports
was stabilized despite price increases during the year, and steel imports
were substantially reduced due to increased domestic production. As a result,
the value of India's imports rose only 2% during 1975/76 and the trade deficit
was reduced to US$1.45 billion, US$150 million less than in 1974/75. Thirdly,
the net transfer of aid was 20% higher than in 1974/75 and India also received
substantial inflows of private remittances from abroad. As a result of these
favorable developments, India was able to add over $800 million to foreign
exchange reserves. These reserves will give India added flexibility in ad-
justing to a higher rate of economic growth during 1976/77.
Development Prospects
9.        While many of the most acute problems were eased during 1975/76,
longer-term constraints to growth remain. Many of these have existed for
some time, but their importance had been temporarily overshadowed by the more
overwhelming limitations imposed by supply shortages and balance of payments
problems. One such constraint is the deficiency of demand for a large seg-
ment of the manufacturing industry. Consequently, in the midst of adequate
supplies during 1975/76, the use of manufacturing capacity - especially for
consumer durables - remained low. In the short and medium term, the two most
promising ways of stimulating demand are to boost public investment and ex-
pand exports. Both avenues are currently being pursued by the Government.
During 1975/76, real Plan outlay rose by 18-20%, after having fallen during
each of the previous two years. The 1976/77 Budget proposes a further in-
crease of 16% in real terms and introduces new measures to stimulate invest-
ment in the private sector. Investment priorities remain the same as last
year, namely agricultural development and increased production of critical
industrial inputs, such as power, coal, oil, and iron and steel.     The Budget
also stresses the importance of exports as an essential condition for sus-
tained stability in the balance of payments.
10.       In agriculture, the basic problem remains that, despite the record
foodgrain crop in 1975/76, the long-term growth rate of foodgrain production
in India has been unacceptably low, at about 2.3% per annum over the last 15
years. This is about the same as the rate of population increase. Starting
from a situation of def-icit, this has meant that only in good years has there
been a significant margin of production to cater to any per capita growth in
consumption, and even in normal years-it has been necessary to rely on stocks
or imports to meet any growth in demand. With a major effort to expand the
irrigated area and provide complementary inputs, the average growth rate of
foodgrain production could be substantially increased. This is essential,
not only because of the necessity to meet food requilements without unmanage-
able consequences for the balance of payments but also because of the strong
influence of agriculture on the levels of activity in other sectors of the



- 4 -
econoiny.  Even withi a higlher growth rate of foodgrain production, imports
will still be required. However, in relation to India's total consumption of
foodgrains, the dependence on imports has been and will remain small.    In the
past, domestic production has accounted for almost 100% of supplies in good
weather years and about 90% when harvests were poor.
11.       The energy sector in India was headed for its own crisis before
the international oil crisis developed. The dramatic hike in oil prices,
coinciding as it did with the accentuation of electric power shortages -
caused in part by low hydroelectric generation due to poor monsoons - led
to an acceleration of measures to improve performance of existing facilities
and to a much higher priority for investments in the energy sector. The
effects of these measures, aided by the good monsoon, are now starting to be
felt. Coal production has increased by 10% or more in each of the last two
years, and, partly as a result of this, power shortages and restrictions have
been greatly reduced. The medium-term prospects for oil and natural gas have
improved with the delineation of the offshore Bombay High field. Crude pro-
duction from this field is expected to be I million tons in 1976/77 and to
reach 6 million tons by the end of the Plan period. On this basis, petro-
leum imports are projected to start declining in 1978/79, as increased crude
production and expanded refinery output more than offset increases in demand.
12.       In the past, export growth was affected in varying degrees by in-
adequate profitability, lack of access to imported inputs, poor quality,
instability of the policy environment and vulnerability to ad hoc decisions.
In addition, for agricultural commodities export taxes were significant.
For some homogeneous commodities, such as iron ore and tea, inadequate sup-
plies or limited world demand have been important constraints. In recent
years, mainly because of the large trade deficit, the Government's emphasis
on export promotion has intensified. As a result, although the fundamental
orientation of India's industrial and trade policy and the specific instru-
ments of the export regime have, by and large, remained the same, a signi-
ficant shift in emphasis and in the way these policies are operated has
occurred. These are important both because they are likely to lead to a
better utilization of current export potential and as an indication of the
willingness to make policy adjustments, when necessary, to expand exports.
13.       While it is difficult to assess the impact of the new measures in
an area where policy is already very complex, some improvement has already
taken place and further improvement in medium-term performance seems likely.
An annual real export growth rate of about 7% should be feasible, compared
to an average of 5% over the last five years. However. to achieve a higher
export growth over the long run, more far-reaching po t-y measures will be
required, including the introduction of a more uniform and more stable sys-
tem of export incentives. Even so, the export drive might be impeded by
controls in some developed markets.
14.       India's balance of payments problems should be manageable over
the next few years, even with the repayment obligations resulting from re-
cent short-term OPEC and IMF borrowings. The worldwide inflation has bene-
fitted India by reducing the proportion of export earnings that have to be



- 5 -
devoted to debt service. India's debt service ratio has come down from 31%
in 1970/71 to 19% in 1975/76. Provided the real growth of exports remains at
about 7% per annum, the debt service ratio is unlikely to rise much above
20% in the foreseeable future. On the import side, given the adequate level
of stocks on hand at the end of 1975/76 and assuming normal weather condi-
tions, annual foodgrain imports could be kept to 5-6 million tons during the
next three years. Within the general category of non-food imports, India
has substantial medium-term import substitution opportunities for three
major items -- petroleum, fertilizer and steel -- which constituted more
than 60% of imports last year. If the medium-term targets for production in
these areas are achieved, the total expenditure on these three import items
in 1978/79 need not be any higher than in 1975/76 and could quite conceiva-
bly be less. Provided the Government is willing to liberalize imports and
donors continue to respond to India's needs, the easing in the external
payments situation presents an opportunity to raise the level of investment
(complemented by larger imports of capital goods, components, and raw
materials), and consequently, reach a more satisfactory level of long-term
growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
15.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 44 loans and 80 development
credits to India totalling US$1,436 million and US$4,112 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$743 million has been
repaid, and US$1,825.9 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1976.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of March 31,
1976, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totaling US$51.8
million, of which US$10.2 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$27.1 million, US$20.6 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of March 31, 1976, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
17.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.



- 0 -
18.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, transport and telecommunica-
tions remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation
schemes, and seed production form an important aspect of the Bank Group's
program for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to proj-
ects benefitting small farmers. Lending in support of infrastructre and
industrial investments will focus on energy-related projects. Repeater
credits for power and railways have high priority in this context.
19.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic re-
ports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. The need for
readily usable foreign exchange assistance is especially pressing at a
time when output and investment have to be adjusted to a radically differ-
ent price situation. Consequently, Bank Group lending for critical indus-
trial raw materials and components continues to be an essential element
within the overall program of assistance. As in the past, Bank Group
assistance for projects In India should include, as appropriate, the fi-
nancing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import
component of projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas
as agriculture, education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be
able to make an appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in
these sectors, it is important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
20.       It is clear from the review of the Indian economy that as much as
possible of India's external capital requirements should be provided on con-
cessionary terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to
India has been, and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the
amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small
in relation to India's needs for external support, and some Bank lending
to India, for which the country is creditworthy, is appropriate. With this
loan the grant element of Bank Group commitments to India during the current
fiscal year, including Third Window, becomes 74%, as compared with the 83%
grant element of standard IDA terms. As of March 31, 1976, the loans to
India held by the Bank totaled US$711 million, of which US$275 million
remained to be disbursed, thus leaving a net amount outstanding of US$436
million.
21.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. in 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 41%, 24% and 30%,
respectively, in 1974/75, and the contribution of the Bank Group is expected
to continue growing. On March 31, 1975, India's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was US$11.8 billion of which the Bank Group's share
was 24%. The Bank's Group's share is likely to grow, but not very rapidly.



Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form of IDA
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will also rise slowly. In 1974/75,
about 14% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND SEED IN INDIA
General
22.       Agriculture is the most important sector in India; it engages 70%
of the labor force, has recently contributed an average of about 42% of GNP,
and accounts for a major share of exports. Consequently, investments in
agriculture, particularly to increase the output of foodgrains, have been
given priority by GOI and the State Governments, especially since the mid-
1960s, and deserve continued emphasis over the next five years.
23.       Since independence, the overall growth rate of agricultural pro-
duction has averaged about 3% per annum. This low overall rate of growth in
the agriculture sector obscures considerable variations over shorter periods
of time, between crops and between regions. The overall rate has been very
much affected by the serious droughts in 1965 and 1966 and again in 1972 and
1974. At the same time, the success of high yielding varieties of wheat
produced increases in wheat production of about 20% p.a. between 1967 and
1971. Other foodgrain crops, notably rice, have enjoyed less success but
some progress has been made towards developing high yielding varieties of
rice and of other grains.
24.       Unfortunately, production increases in wheat and other high yield-
ing varieties have not been sustained. There has been a loss of momentum in
recent years due in no small measure to the deterioration of seed together
with the increasing susceptibility of the main wheat variety to rust attack.
Reestablishment of the rapid growth of foodgrain production of the late
sixties requires major new efforts to make high quality seed available to
farmers together with organizational and research support to be able to re-
act quickly to changing factors such as diseases and pests.
Role of the Seed Industry
25.       Prior to the early sixties, when plant breeding breakthroughs pro-
duced the first high yielding varieties (HYV), the seed industry in India was
little developed. The private sector produced small quantities of high value
flower and vegetable seed while the public sector concentrated, with very
limited success, on disseminating improved seed from small and scattered
State government-owned Community Development Block farms.
26.       However, the release of India's first maize hybrids in 1961, fol-
lowed by hybrids of sorghum and pearl millet, high yielding dwarf rice varie-
ties and finally by the high yielding dwarf wheats, began to change the seed



- 3 -
industry. These new seeds were highly responsive to higher input use, gave
greater profits, and created a strong demand for quality seed.
27.       In response there was a rapid growth of private sector seed compa-
ies. In the public sector, the Government of India (GOI), recognizing that
a wide scatter of small Block seed farms was inappropriate to the technologi-
cal needs of hybrid seed production, decided to create a central seed organi-
zation. GOI also decided to promote legislation to establish seed quality
control.  Thus in 1963 the National Seeds Corporation (NSC) was established
and in 1966 a Seeds Act was passed. NSC was charged with promoting seed in-
dustry development and establishing a system of quality control.
28.       Through the mid sixties seed output expanded rapidly.    The certi-
fied seed producing area increased from 360 ha to 35,000 ha between 1963-64
and 1968-69. This was mainly in the private sector, with the Bank-supported
Tarai Development Corporation (TDC) (Loan 614-IN) coming in towards the end
of the period. During this period NSC was concerned mainly with foundation
seed production and, after the passing of the Seed Act in 1966, with seed
certification. 1/
29.       Demand for seed grew more slowly than expected in the late sixties.
In the self-pollinated crops - wheat and rice - farmer retention and farmer
to farmer transfer accounted for much of the seed used; some of the HYV were
inferior in grain quality to traditional types and thus lost favor. Substan-
tial overproduction occurred and large stocks accumulated with State govern-
ments. Thus, 1968-1971 was a period of retrenchment with State governments
curtailing their seed production and many private companies withdrawing from
seed production.
30.       Demand for certified seed began to pick up again in 1971-72, but
the industry lacked the resources and confidence to meet it. NSC stepped
in and developed a program which in 1974/75 produced 73,000 tons of seed
(about 50% of national output), making NSC by far the largest seed producer
in the country. Seed was produced almost entirely through contracts with
progressive farmers. A feature of this NSC program was the introduction of
scientific seed processing. Previously seed had little or no processing,
to the detriment of quality.
National Seed Program
31.       Against this background, the Government of Tndia began about eighteen
months ago to take steps to reorganize and improve tl: seed sub-sector to make
1/   The definition of the different terms for seed used in this report are
as follows:
Breeder Seed      -  seed of high genetic purity, produced by the
plant breeder.
Foundation seed  -   progeny of breeder seed (or of first generation
foundation seed), produced to statutory quality
control standards.
Certified seed   -   progeny of foundation seed, produced to
statutory quality control standards.



-9-
it more responsive to the growing requirements of Indian agriculture. A na-
tionally coordinated seed development program was prepared by the Government
to support all facets of seed production, from production of breeder and
foundation seed through production, processing, storage and marketing of
certified seed.
32.       The main features of the program include changing NSC's role from
that of a seed producer to an agency responsible for overall coordination
and development of the seed industry. NSC would also be responsible for
interstate marketing of certified seed. NSC's seed production activities
would devolve upon State Seed Corporations (SSC) to be established in States
with a comparative advantage for producing certain crops. Agricultural
universities would be closely integrated into the program to produce improved
quality breeder and foundation seed. The program would also address problems
in seed technology research, quality control, and buffer stocks.
33.       The program design takes advantage of the experience gained under
the Tarai Seeds project, signed in 1969. The Tarai Development Corporation
has been successful in establishing itself as a producer of quality seed and
its products are in wide demand. Many of the concepts which have proven to
be successful in the case of Tarai have been incorporated in the national
seeds program. These concepts include a compact area approach where seed
would be produced in compact areas around each processing plant by growers
with a shareholding in the SSC. This approach would improve efficiency in
quality control, supervision and transport. Quality is also expected to
benefit from the vested interest shareholder growers would have in seed
industry success. The proposed project would represent the first phase of
implementation of the national seeds program.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The project was prepared by a GOI/Bank working group during 1975
with assistance from the FAO/WB Cooperative Program. It was appraised by
the Bank in October/November 1975. The appraisal report (No. 1064-IN;
dated May 17, 1976) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1975. The negotiating delega-
tion for India was headed by Mr. K.S. Narang, Secretary Agriculture. Attached
as Annex III is a loan and project summary.
Project Description
35.       The main purpose of the project is to increase foodgrain production
through increasing the availability of high quality cereal seed. However,
cotton and vegetable seed are also included in the project. It would cover
development of seed production and processing facilities in four States;
Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab. It would improve storage,
marketing, breeder and foundation seed production, and seed technology research.



It would also provide for expansion of seed quality control facilities at the
state and national level, and provide training and technical assistance.
Project components include:
-    reorganization of the National Seeds Corporation (NSC) to
carry out its major responsibilities for overall coordina-
tion and development of India's seed industry and interstate
seed marketing; provision of equipment for NSC's vegetable
seed operation;
-    expansion of seed storage capacity and establishment of
a reserve stock for certified and foundation seed;
-    establishment and equipment of 4 State Seed Corporations
(SSC);
-    development of about 8 large-scale farms of agricultural
universities, State Farms Corporation of India, and Haryana
Land Development and Reclamation Corporation for certified
seed production;
-    development of university facilities for foundation seed
production, processing and storage;
-    improvement of breeder seed production facilities at
agricultural universities and ICAR institutes;
-    development of seed technology research programs at agri-
cultural universities;
-    provision of equipment and other facilities for private
seed processing corporations;
-    expansion of quality control and certification facilities;
and
-    provision of training and technical assistance.
Project Implementation
36.       Implementation of this multi-faceted project would require consid-
erable coordination. A Project Management and Monil ring Committee (PMMC)
has been created for this purpose chaired by the Secretary for Agriculture,
GOI. NSC's planning cell, of which the Deputy Secretary (Seeds), GOI, would
be ex-officio director, would provide the PMMC's Secretariat. PMMC would
monitor and coordinate project activity, including procurement, and would
report progress to the Government and the Bank.



National Seeds Corporation (NSC)
37.       NSC would be reorganized to carry out its new role and broadened
responsibilities envisaged under the National Seeds Program. Its Board
would be reconstituted to include the Managing Directors of SSC. In turn,
NSC would be represented on the Board of each SSC. This interlocking
arrangement would help to ensure that NSC could properly coordinate SSC
production programs with national demand and interstate marketing require-
ments. Other members of NSC's Board include 2 GOI representatives from the
Ministry of Agriculture, the Managing Directors of NSC and State Farms Cor-
poration of India (SFCI), 3 representatives of seed growers and NSC's Chair-
man.
38.       GOI would continue to hold all NSC equity, and provide additional
equity as required to enable NSC to invest in the share capital of the SSC,
and to borrow for working capital and for its vegetable seed unit. NSC would
continue to carry out its vegetable seed business as it would not be prudent
to transfer this responsibility to the newly established SSC. Production
and processing of vegetable seed is a much more complex task than of cereal
seed and would be an unnecessary burden and distraction from the main task
of producing cereal seed.
39.       The major responsibilities of NSC would be to participate in the
share capital of the SSC and actively assist them in becoming viable seed
production agencies. The NSC would assess demand, coordinate SSC seed pro-
duction programs, and arrange for interstate marketing of certified seed.
NSC would help plan and organize production of breeder and foundation seed
through liaison with the Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR) and
agricultural universities. NSC would also operate a buffer stock scheme to
protect seed users against demand fluctuations caused by the adverse effects
of weather and disease. The scheme would include foundation and certified
seed. Breeder seed reserve stocks would be held by the producing institutions
since quantities would be small. NSC would arrange with the Central and
State Warehousing Corporations for construction of project storage facili-
ties. Designs would be approved by the Central Warehousing Corporation.
State Seed Corporations (SSC)
40.       The SSC in Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab have
been established. Under the project, SSC would organize production of
certified seed through SSC shareholder growers. The SSC would buy the seed
from growers and process it for marketing. Intrastate marketing of certified
seed would be handled by SSC; interstate marketing would be handled by NSC on
a commission basis.
41.      The State government, NSC and seed growers would subscribe to the
capital of the SSC approximately in the proportion 35:30:35. To ensure that
SSC have sufficient capital to begin early operations, it would be a condi-
tion of loan effectivess that NSC and the State government had paid in a
certain minimum amount of share capital to the SSC (see Section 6.01(f) of



the Loan Agreement). Where possible, shareholding seed growers would
initially be recruited from the ranks of growers who have been associated
with NSC on a contractual basis. Shares allocated to growers but not sub-
scribed within three months would be subscribed equally by NSC and State
government as necessary depending upon the need of an SSC for cash. Such
shares would, however, be transferred to eligible seed growers upon request.
Given the profitability of seed growing and the success with the shareholder
grower concept under the Tarai Seeds project, no difficulty is expected in
attracting farmers to participate. Only those farmers in the project area
who operate land suitable for seed production and purchase one share of
SSC would be eligible. Institutions with large farms, i.e. the agricultural
universities, SFCI and Haryana Land Development and Reclamation Corporation
(HLDC) are also expected to become shareholder growers.
42.       The development of these large farms would be supported under
the project subject to the provision of satisfactory farm development plans.
(See Schedule 1, paragraph 4 (b) of Loan Agreement). Three of these farms
(of about 8 in total), are located in Haryana, and the irrigation canals
serving them would be remodelled to increase water flow capacity which would
increase seed production and make it more certain.
43.       SSC would be run in accordance with normal commercial practice.    To
operate efficiently they must have good staff, which would require attractive
personnel policies. Continuity in the post of Managing Director would also
be important in the formative years of the SSC. Suitable provisions to im-
plement these policies were agreed and would be contained in project agree-
ments to be concluded between NSC and SSC (See Section 4.05 of the Loan
Agreement).
Role of Other Institutions
44.       Responsibility for foundation seed production would rest with the
agricultural universities which would establish special seed production
units. Both Andhra Pradesh and Punjab agricultural universities at pres-
ent lack sufficient land for foundation seed production. The state govern-
ments agreed to transfer additional land to them and it would be a condi-
tion of disbursement, against the Andhra Pradesh and Punjab components of
the project, that land satisfactory to the Bank had been transferred (see
Section 2.10 of Punjab and Andhra Pradesh Agreements and Schedule 1,
paragraph 4(d) of the Loan Agreement.) To the extent land would still not
be sufficient to produce the required amount of founzation seed under the
project, NSC would ensure that seed supply would be -upplemented from other
institutions with large farms (i.e., SFCI or HLDC).
45.       Breeder seed production to be carried out by agricultural
universities and ICAR institutes would be coordinated by ICAR. A senior
official of ICAR would be responsible for assessing demand (with the help
of NSC and SSC) and ensuring that the production program was sufficient
and properly supported (see Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement). Actual
production of breeder seed of each variety would be the responsibility of



- 13 -
the originating breeder or institution. To safeguard quality, breeder seed
plots would be examined by a committee of officials representing ICAR, NSC,
the State Seed Certification Agency and the breeder. Shortages in supply
of breeder seed would be detrimental to the remaining links in the seed mul-
tiplication chain and could adversely affect food production. To prevent
this, a reserve stock of breeder seed would be carried over each season in
controlled environment storage.
46.       The agricultural universities in Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Maha-
rashtra and Punjab would intensify and reorient their seed technology re-
search activities. The emphasis would be on applied research in support
of the major project objective - production and supply of adequate quanti-
ties of quality seed at an economical price.
47.       The project would also support the continued expansion of the
private sector. All relevant activity, from plant breeding through to pro-
cessing and storage, would be eligible for project financing. Individual
investment proposals would be financed through, and subject to the appraisal
of, commercial banking channels. In addition, it would be a condition of
disbursement against any investment proposal that it had been subject to the
technical scrutiny of NSC (see Schedule 1, paragraph 4(e) of Loan Agreement).
Also, past experience has shown that the private sector has had difficulties
when competing with State governments for access to seed supplies, quality
control services, credit, and other items. It was agreed that all parties
under the project would be treated equally with respect to supplies of breeder
and foundation seed; quality control services; variety trials; credit; and
seed movement (see Section 4.06 of Loan Agreement and Section 2.05 of ARDC
Agreement).
48.       Quality control and seed certification responsibility would rest
primarily at the state level but would be monitored and coordinated at the
national level. Seed certification would be undertaken by independent State
Seed Certification Agencies (SSCA) which have been established. Also, to
coordinate seed certification at the national level, and to ensure inter-
state uniformity of operation, a Central Seed Certification Board would be
established with composition satisfactory to the Bank (see Section 4.03
of the Loan Agreement).
49.       A seed testing service is required to determine compliance with
the regulatory aspects of the Seeds Act. One state, Maharashtra, has a well
staffed and equipped seed testing laboratory. The project would provide for
similar facilities in the other three states. GOI operates a Central Seed
Testing Laboratory which would act as referee in case of disputes over
decisions by the state laboratories. The central laboratory would also
continue to develop and standardize seed testing procedures and monitor
performance of state laboratories.
50.      A National Seed Development Council has been established by GOI
as an advisory and policy formulation body for the seed industry. At



a tLme of Institutional clhange and rapid expansion in the industry, such a
body Is Important to provide continuing policy guidance to GOI, State
governments and private Industry. The Council would be chaired by the
Secretary of Agriculture for GOI and would include representatives of NSC,
State governments and private industry.
Training and Technical Assistance
51.       Training under the project would consist of short overseas study
tours for staff of NSC, SSC, state certification agencies and seed testing
laboratories to study methods and operations in use in developed countries.
One candidate would be sent from each of the five universities developing a
seed technology program for advanced degree training overseas. Some tech-
nical assistance would also be required under the project. Universities
would require assistance to design seed technology research programs. NSC
engineers would need short-term assistance with processing plant design.
State Seed Certification Agencies would need help to develop administrative
procedures commensurate with greatly expanded activity, and NSC's marketing
department would be supported by consultant services to redirect efforts from
distribution to promotion, to establish training programs to that end and to
assist with seed demand surveys. Assurances were obtained that consultants
would be employed in consultation with, and on terms and conditions satis-
factory to, the Bank (see Section 3.02 of Loan Agreement).
Pricing
52.       Under the project, steps will be taken towards a more economic
pricing policy for seed, which, in turn, should help increase use. Grain
prices in India vary considerably between deficit and surplus foodgrain
producing states. Up to now, however, seed has been sold at a uniform na-
tional price. This has meant that, in foodgrain deficit areas, the price of
seed is only a little more than the price of grain, while in foodgrain sur-
plus areas, the price of seed has been, in some cases, several times the price
of grain. This has tended to distort demand and depress the use of commercial
seed in many areas. Under the project, a pricing system would be adopted to
correct this situation. Prices would be set to reflect costs plus a reason-
able return on capital. The pricing system would also take into account how-
ever, that in years of grain scarcity, seed prices in deficit areas will need
to be set at a premium above the grain price to prevent consumption as grain.
The following criteria would be taken into account when setting prices: (i)
ensure the financial viability of SSC; (ii) prevent consumption of seed as
grain; and (iii) within these constraints, maximize s-,,d sales.   These cri-
teria would be embodied in SSC/NSC agreements which would be subject to
approval by the Bank (see Section 4.05 of Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
53.       The total project cost is about US$52.7 million equivalent (in-
cluding duties and taxes) of which the foreign exchange component is US$11.1
million or 21%. The proposed loan of US$25 million would finance about 50%
of project costs net of duties and taxes, and cover the whole of foreign ex-



- 15 -
change costs plus about US$14 million of local costs. The remaining local
costs would be financed by GOI (30%), state governments (9%), ARDC and parti-
cipating banks (8%), and sub-borrowers (20%). Details of cost estimates and
financing are given in Annex III.
54.       The loan proceeds under the project would be applied as follows:
(a)  US$11.8 million  -   Processing facilities, including civil works
and equipment, for SSC and NSC.
(b)  US$3.0 million    -  Processing facilities, including civil works
and equipment, for private seed processors.
(c)  US$1.4 million    -  Development of HLDC and SFCI farms.
(d)  US$2.0 million    -  Bulk and transit storage facilities.
(e)  US$5.9 million    -  Equipment and facilities for agricultural
universities, seed technology research
operations, and canal remodelling.
(f)  US$0.6 million.   -  Equipment and facilities for quality
control agencies.
(g)  US$0.3 million    -  Training and technical assistance.
55.       The bulk of Bank funds (US$18.2 million) would be channelled through
the ARDC to commercial banks for financing sub-borrowers' investments in seed
production, processing and marketing facilities. GOI would make Bank proceeds
available to ARDC repayable partly over 9 and partly over 15 years at interest
rates of not less than 6.5% and 7%, respectively. GOI would bear the exchange
risk. ARDC would on-lend the funds to banks at an annual interest rate of not
less than 8%. The banks, in turn, would lend to SSC, NSC, HLDC, SFCI, private
processors and State and Central Warehousing Corporations (SWC, CWC), at a
minimum annual rate of 11% for periods of from 5 to 15 years. Lending rates
under the project are in line with prevailing interest rates, and the spreads
reasonable in relation to the risk element involved, and the cost of appraisal
and supervision of individual loans. Bank funds (US$6.8 million) for agriculturc
universities, quality control, training and technical assistance, and canal
remodelling would be channelled by GOI to the various institutions involved
according to the Borrower's standard arrangements for development assistance
to ICAR and the States.
56.       In order to expedite project implementation, a limited amount
of retroactive financing for procurement of selected items is appropriate,
provided such procurement was consistent with Bank guidelines. Accordingly,
it is proposed to provide retroactive financing under the loan for such
expenditures from November 1, 1975 up to a maximum amount of US$500,000.



Procurement and Disbursement
57.       Procurement would be coordinated by the Project Management and
Monitoring Committee (PMMC). For the public sector, which represents the
bulk of procurement, contracts for equipment and farm machinery valued at
US$50,000 or more and totalling an estimated US$15.1 million would be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines, except in cases (totalling about US$2.0 million) where procurement
would be widely dispersed among institutions and over time and it would not be
practicable to bulk items. In these cases, procurement would be on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local pro-
cedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank. Some items of minor equipment
would be needed on an urgent basis, and would be procured by prudent shopping
(total value US$1.0 million).
58.       Procurement for the private sector (US$3.4 million) would be left
to customer choice. Individual purchases would be too small, varied and
widespread to permit bulking for competitive bidding. The equipment re-
quired is widely available and competitively priced.
59.       Bulking would not be practicable for civil works, buildings and
furnishings (US$16.5 million), since individual items are small and scattered
over a wide area. Contracts would be let after competitive bidding advertised
locally. An exception would be canal remodelling in Haryana (US$2.4 million).
Because of the need to minimize disruption of water supplies the work would
be frequently interrupted and delayed and would not attract contractors.
Consequently, it would be carried out by force account. Vehicles (US$1.1
million would also be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally since only a few would be purchased at a time and purchases would be
spread over the project period. Motorcycles (US$0.5 million) would be
purchased by individual staff members according to their preference direct
from dealers. Employment of consultants and overseas training (US$0.3 million)
would be on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.    Thie balance of
project costs (US$10.4 million) would consist of reserve stocks, permanent
working capital and operating costs not involving procurement.
60.       The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against the full c.i.f.
costs of imported equipment; against the full costs of training and technical
assistance; against the full ex-factory cost of locally procured equipment;
against 60% of expenditures on civil works; and agair-t 70% of ARDC refinanc-
ing of commercial bank loans to private sector processors.
Risks and Economic Benefits
61.       The seeds market in India is already fairly well established and
there is little risk that seed quantities produced under the project would
not be fully utilized. The most significant risk to the project lies in the
fairly complex organizational arrangements involved in project implementation



- 17 -
which, unless carefully managed, could result in some aspects of the project
moving more slowly than others. Measures to monitor and expedite all phases
of implementation have been discussed with GOI, State governments and the
other institutions involved in the project. A critical path chart of key
project activities has been developed to assist project managers in system-
atically addressing key activities on a priority basis. These measures,
together with the considerable momentum already built up towards implement-
ing the project, should help to ensure that project delays are minimized.
62.       The project would provide a number of important economic benefits.
The main project benefit would be increased crop yields resulting from the
improved availability and quality of seed. Projected annual incremental
cereal production at full development would be 200,000 tons of wheat,
170,000 tons of paddy, 95,000 tons of maize, 200,000 tons of sorghum, and
250,000 tons of pearl millet. Total value of these crops would be about
US$145 million per year. The project would also increase and improve the
production of cotton seed, estimated to be worth about US$3.7 million per
year at full development. Since most of the cotton seed would be used in
the Integrated Cotton Development Project (Credit 610-IN), its value has been
taken as the economic input price assumed in the economic analysis for that
project. About 3 million farmers would benefit from the use of project seed.
Since small farmers suffer most from supply constraints and high prices, they
should benefit substantially from the improved seed supply and lower prices
which should result from the project. Employment effects would be the crea-
tion of about 14,000 man years of seasonal work during harvesting and about
800 jobs to carry out the work of the State Seed Corporations and Certifica-
tion Agencies. Based on the quantified incremental costs and benefits, the
economic rate of return to the project is about 65%. A sensitivity analysis
to test the effects of different investment costs, operating costs and benefit
levels indicates the project is economically justified under any realistic set
of assumptions.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft
Agreement between the Bank and ARDC, the draft Project Agreements between
the Bank and, the States of Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab
and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Sec-
tion 4(iii), of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft Resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executed Directors
separately.
64.       The features of the draft agreements of special interest are de-
scribed in paragraphs 41 through 52 of this report.
65.       The additional conditions of effectiveness, specified in
Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement, would include:



- i8 -
(a)  The completion of arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
for the transfer to the SSC of suitable processing
plants of NSC;
(b) The completion to the satisfaction of the Bank of lending
arrangements between ARDC and the Participating Banks for
loans to the SSC.
66.       Additional conditions of disbursement, specified in paragraph 4
of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, would include:
(a) That satisfactory farm plans had been completed before
disbursements would be made in respect of that farm;
(b) That the Bank had approved SSC processing plant designs
before disbursing against an SSC's expenditures; and
(c) That, in respect of each State, the State had established
its SSC with articles of association satisfactory to the
Bank and the SSC had signed a project agreement with NSC.
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Arti-
cles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 17, 1976



ArmexI
24M   DTA - NDIAPage                           1
3,200,4.83 hal2                                         ,;      b.u   (..id.19,73)                     30      Po, haof arabl. len
W  l M   OAU  MI* (ATLA  MMSI)                                                 n .fo La          90 /a       220 La      2,600 /
2M  APthI   rat  (per tomnand)                                  38             383L2 41.8                     1.I  5 4A   1~3.9/
meftd. bth rate (pew thnjeod)                                    13  166L4aA                    19 /d.        12 Id0      12:.0  I
Wnant mortality rate (per toosted liv     births)               139  1k20-l14o/                 ..d           80          17.54
Life S032etwMafo  t birth (years)                                41./          50               4.8           58            7
Ore.. gepradootime wets                        ~~~~~    ~     ~~~~2.7 &,  2.932               33           13
2.3           2320~                           . 
Popuolation powth rate - urban3A                                                 4                              40                a
Age atruou"'e (percent)
D-li.                                                         11             4.0  f           ..           '13 /6        3.7  a
15-61                                                          56             5 7  f4          53 /6         54. /6       2.7/
65 end omer                                                                    3036                           3/         113.
A,go dependency ratio 06                                        O              0./              0.    ~       0.9 /6        0.6 6
Economic dependency ratio /61.0                                                I.7/              .Z           1.5           0.8 /
Urban ypopalatio  an peroent of total                            18             20 /m.k          18 4.        32Iw          78   a
Faodl  Plaoniog, NC of coosptor    cumulative (theua.)        1oo/             .                17510
No. of user. (% of married women)            .               ..                              8
BW     M    Ibo  fowo. (thou..ando)                           189,000 /6     221,000 4dq       40,100 /6    13,200 /      25,700 /
Paer entege employed in egricoltowa                            73 &           71 L8A          62 /6         56 /6          3
P-rmtega o,eplny.d                                            ..3/6                             2            7     c     3.6 
V  INURor,ii8 tiii8al income reosived by higteet 5%               27 /           25 4rA          .             25   or       15
Percent of ntiooal inco      reoived by highest 20%              52 Lr          53 4.                         51.39 
Percenot of nationul income received by lowest 20%               4.              5    a                         4,c          6  r
Pewoent of otioool income received b,y lowest 4.0                14Ar-1                                                     19  r t
M8S0RIB8TIO8 OF L.ANDOolegRBAW
S owned by E;top 10   ofo~a.                                                   .
% owned by amall..t 10% of owner a...
NIALTHE AND WnlaTXo8
Population Pe'w phyician                                      5,800 46 1.,0                 27,380 /c      2,7110 /        790
Popolation Par oursing peron                                   ,10   6       ,U8,32                /6      190    6        20 j
Ppltion per hospital bad                                   2,600   /6    1,620o6,         1,4.50c/6       850           n06 /
Por oapit. calorie mopp3y as % of -eqoi-rm.tso                   95             93             - 93           85           125
Per oopita pwotein 00pply, total (grao per d.yT/6                55            53               53            1.5           90
Of whioh, colmal and polse                                     19 /B         16 Lab           11. /d        227~
Death rato 1-4. years /7                                         1105
EDUCATION
I733"Td /b pri,ory school awomlsmeot ratio                       1.2            79  ao           71          U-2 /ay.d     110
Adjusted    eeoo,Loy echool e,,rllot ratio                       10            28   BEg         12            1.5      .    72
Years ofabiooling proided, firat end meaod level                 12            12               1210                        13
Vooatiooal enrollment as % of seeo. schoo1 enrollment             1.            6/8f            28            10 5g, 
Adult literacy rate %                                            24 .gg        36 73.kd ah          /         7      '       7
NOUSIED
7Average No. of parsooe par woo,, (urban)                       2.6 La4.ak     2.8 /c           ..           ..            0.8 /c.oJ
Parount of acu pied omit, without, piped wator                 ...                              .66 
Acooeo to sleotrioity (00 % of -total popoletio.)              ...                              .23 
Percent of fur.1 popolation connected to electricity            ....                                           6 
22djo reivor     per 1000 Population                               5            23 La           111.1.646                   672 /
Pecomager oare per 1000 popalotime                              0.8                              2 4              6        231L
Elotrie Po.e    oo-Bomption (kha  p.c.)                         1.6           108               23a          25   6       ,75/
Newsprint ooooospion p.c. kg Par yeor                          0.25502                                        .  /6       28.5 
Not.a. Figurc   refer either in the lateat periodo or to             aoowot of envir-omentml to-ampraov, body weights, and
the lateet year..  lateet periods reLfer in principle to              distribution by age Bade eox of nationl 5opuiatioe.
the yearo 1956-60 or 1966-70; the lateat yoars in prin-          A   Protein atAarded   (requobennto) for all oautri.o as eatab-
.ole to 1960 end 1970.                                               liahed by USDA Boononl Reoearh Service provide for a ali,no
4 The Per Capita GNP eatioote ia at nokat pric.e for               Clloaenc. of 60 gam. of total protein Par day, and 20 gvaeo of
y.aao othcr thou 1960, calculated by the Cone convereion,         animal and pulse protein, of which 10 geao should be animal
technique ao the 1972 World Book Atlon.                          protein.   Thmee standards "ar someehat later than thoee of 25
L2 Average numbe of daughters per eoamn of raproduotive               green of total proteo and 23 grams of animal protin Ba an
age.               rt,aefrAverage far the -nId, proposed by 7A0 in the Third World Food
iPopulation growth M.       -f       the deaad.o ending In          Survey.
1960 end 1970.                                               4   Son,. etdise haer suggeoted that crdod demth ratse of children
4  ktio of population under 15 end 65 end over to popula-           aege  1 thruoug  . may he ceed asafirt approalaation inde. of
tion of ogeo 15-64. for age dependency ratio and to labor         malnotrition.
foroe of -ges 15-61. for economic dependency ratio.           /8  Percentage enrolled of eaoreponaing population of sohool age
/6  PAO referene Otadndard   represent physiological ra-              as defied for each country.
quireomoto for norol activity end health, taking
197?2;  A   Estimate anual oea-   ge for 1963-&1 booed on rneults of the national eample survey;       /0   l9,71;  /d   Botimate;
1965-70;     /f  1973;    Z6  Estlnated annual average for 1951-61 baoed on anailysis of deceonlal 0"0000;        h    1951-60;
Bateio etiamt.3 based on birth. obtained by application of emraev eurvivele method to reeulte of 1951 and 1961
ceouee  /    1960-72;   A6  Par the definition of urban seec                                  p  1.;    4    Municipalities,
regecy capitale ond other, places with urban characteristics, eldngW           tIr     n;6      or t-hie definition of urban
oee UN Denoxraphic Yearbook 1973, P. 127;     /.  Are   ol"anified as urbon for local governont purpo.es, i.e. county
boraugho , nunicipal borug.s hend urban districts;     /6  1961.;  /6   1cludes all indidrduala who participate in any,
type of econodic activity;    /6   AID eetimate of labor force in age group 15-59.    0888 report giove a figure of 180.1.
million based on the 1971 ppulation caenen.     The differancee i. due to change    in the definition of anrc        . I  tha
1971 .cane    persons were classified only on the boot, of their main activities.      This led to the eacluolon of neverl
categories, ouch ao houewives;      /r  Households,    /6  1967-68;   /t   1968;   /u   1962;   /v  Percenel in g-ovrnment
nervices only;    /w  1957;   /x   1969,   /6  Including rural hospitals;     /Z  Government, hospital establieheento only;
/88. 1960-62;    /ab  1969 70,    /_t  EstImate Which includea ovrage otudente;      /ad   1967;   /a.   Not including  -oati-1a
ahort-tere cou-eco;    /8f  1965;    /gg  1961,   Zp8h  Population, of 10 years and over booe d on one pe-r-eot ... plo dato
of 1971;    4a8j 15 yenre end over;    /6%j tate refer to houmeholda;     /.k  Data base d on oaple tabulation of c-nsu
rturns;   Lai   Deta refer to h.-oholds In conventional dwellingo;       L-   Iports only;    /on  tegsttr-d applicocto
for oorh.
Sloe end population cob. Iodoneoia a relevont reference country, although it io in the per capita loc... grop hbeow
lndi..
noThe United Kingdom hoc boon ne1ected hecaus    of the important redo of public sector enterpria,, and the highly
developed oyetem of ...cio1 aelfare .



Annex I
KIC  10TM NTM DATA                               Page   2
GNP Pta CAPITA IN 1973 E usSl2O
GROSS IATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974/75 Ah ADUAL RET1 OF GEOV!1I (%. oonstant prices)
US$ B1A.       j                              1961/62-1964/65   1965/66-1969/70    1970/71-1973/74
GNP at Market Prioee             87.4       100.0                                  3.4               3.7                1.9
Grove Domestic Investment        14.8        16.9
Grosa National Saving            12.8        14.6
Current Aocount Balano          -2.0       -2.3
Resource Gap                     -1.8        -2.1
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AiD PRODCTIIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor coat)        Labor Force         V.A. Per Worker
uS Bln.               *                                                            Av Ne
Agriculture                      24-5                46.6           130.0   72.1         188            64
Industry                         11.8                22.3            20.2   11.2         582           199
Servioese                        16.3               .ia.             30.2   16.7         542           186
Total/average                    52.6              100.0            180.4  100.0        292            100
GovERNMENT FINANCE                                          .
General Government                        Central Governmnt
(Re. Bln)              of GDP                  (Re. Bln)              of GDP
1974/75        1974/75 1972/73-1974/75         1974/75       1974/75   1972/73-1974/75
Current Reoeipte                 107.63          15.4         15-7               64.02          9.1          9.2
Current Expenditures              98.91 4.2                  15.2                57.78          8.2          8.7
Current Surplus/Deficit            8.64           1.2         0.5                 6.24          0.9          0.5
Capital Expenditures  e/          40.40           5-8         5.4                30.17          4.3          4.1
External Assistanoe (net)         10.17           1.4         1.0                10.t7          1.4          1.0
MONEY. aREDIT AND PRICES               1965/66    1970/71    1971/72   1972/3     1.2nL14    1974/75   August 1974    August 1975
(Billion Re outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                    61.4      105.7      122.4     142.2      169.1      187.4       176.8          198.2
Bank Credit to Public Sector             40.8       56.9      69.0       82.5       92.9     102.0        98.8           115.3
Bank Credit to Private Seotor            28.1       56.7      64.4       76.0       90.1      100.5       90.0           104.7
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                   Jalnury 1975  January 1976
Money and Quasi Mloney as % of GDP       24.0       24.4       26.3      27-9       27.2       25-5
Wholesale Price Index
(1961/62 = 100)                     131.6      181.1     188.4      207.1      254.2      313.0      316.0          290.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                     7.7        5.5       4-0        9.9       22.7       23.1                      -8.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector             12.9        8.6       21.3      19.6       12.6        9.8                       4.8 8/
Bank Credit to Private Sector            12.8       17.4       15.6      18.0       18.5       11.5                      22.9 '
a/ The per oapita GNP estimate is at 1973 market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the 1975
World Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during
the period covered.
./ Quick Estimates.
S/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
d/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
e/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
f/ Credit to Govornment.
.g/ Credit to Commercial Sector.



Annex I
Page 3
BALANCE OF PAYTIE S               1972/73     17A         1971         1t75/76 m/ RADISz woRTS (A1ERAGE 1972/73-1974/75)
USJ8 Million
Exports of Goods                   2,558       3,239        4,143       4.300          Jute Maeufasture"        329          10
Imports of Goods                  -2,682      -3,971      -5,739      -5,920            Toa,                    220           7
Trade Balao.                      -  124      -  752       -1,596      _1,620           Cotton Textiles.-       217           7
Ill (net) I/                      -  146        n.-.        n.a.        n.a.            Iron Ore                171           5
Engineering Goods       295            9
Resouroe Gan                      -   270        n. .        n.a.        c.a.           Others                2.081          63
Interest Payments (not)           -  237      -  233      -  260      -  261           Total                  3,313         100
Other Faotor Payments (net)       -    8        n.a.         n.a.        n.e.
Net Transfers  L/                 -   50         n.a.        n.a.        n.a.
Balance on Current Account        -  565        n.-.        n.a.         n.a.           EXTEIRNAL DEBT. MARCH 31, 1975
Offioial kid                                                                                                               US$ Mln.
Disbursements                    955       1,249        1,766       2,210           Repayable in foreign currency       11,056
Amortization                    -445        -459        -519        -522            Repayable through export of goods      714
Transactions with IMF                             75          530         130           Total Outstanding and Disbursed     11,770
All Other Item                        89          205          41         500
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1975/76       19.0 percent
Increase in Reserves (-)            - 34        -105          38         -435
Gross Reserves (end year)           1,311       1,416       1,378       1,813           lE/D      EDl~Dcme          1   95    (iSii1.
Not Reserves (end year)             1,311       1,341         773       1,073           IBHD/IDA DENDING, December 31, 1975   (USS MIn.)
Fuel and Related Material                                                                                              IBRD      IDA
Imports                               265         720       1,451       1,450           Outstanding and Disbursed       445     2,827
of which, Petroleum                265         719       1,451        1,450           Undisbursed                     284     1,157
Outstanding including           729      3,984
Exporte                               41           20          26        n.a.             Undisbursed
of whichs Petroleum                 37          16           17        n.a.
RATE OF EXC8ANGE /
Prior to mid-December 1971    :   USt1,00 = Rs 7.5                                      After end June 1972   *   Floating Rate
Re 1.00 = USSO.133333                                 Spot Rate December 31, 1975
Mid-December 1971 to           t  US$1.00 * Re 7.27927                                                approx. USS1.00 = RS, 8.937
end June 1972                   Rs 1.00 = USSO.137376                                               approx. Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.112
/ Estimated.
j/ For 1973j74 to 1975/76, included with 'All other Items'.
,/ Aid and trade figures converted to U8 dollars using exchange rates and EF trade conversion factors as indicated in inside front
cover of this report or notes to individual tables.
k/ Excluding garments.
j/ Amortization and interest payments (excluding IMF transactions) as a percentage of merchandise exporte.



Pag 1
THE STATUS OF BWNI GROJP OPBRLi(TNS IN INDIA
A.   ST^TT OF BANK "S in IDA CR1DITS
Loan or                                (     Of lteh 31, TM)                   US$ Millioni/
Credt N. L     r    Borro er                  Purpose                     (Net of Cancellation)
A        IDA    Undisbursed
38 Loana/                                                            1 Q3g.j
36 Credit fully disbursed                                                    2,Q51 .9
614-IN       1969   India      Tarai Seeds                             1).0      -       7.0
176-IN       1970   India      Kadana Irrigation                        -       %.0      0.3
203-IN       1970    India     PunJab Agricultural Credit               -       27.5    17.9
226-IN       1971   India      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit       -       24.4      4.3
242-IN       1971   India      Power Transniesion II                    _       7T.0    40.5
249-IN       1971   India      Haryana Agricultural Credit              -       25.0      7.6
250-IN       1971   India      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit           -       35.0      9.8
264-IN       1971   India      Cochin II Fertilizer                     -       20.0      2.5
267-IN       1971   India      Wheat Storage                            -        5.0      3.8
268-IN       1971   India      Pocheapad Irrigation                     -       39.0      1.7
789-IN       1971   ICICI      Industry DFC IX                         40.0      -        4.2
278-IN       1972   India      Mysore Agricultural Credit               -       ko.o     14.6
293-IN       1972    India      Maharaahtra Agricultural Credit         -       3.0       2.6
294-IN       1972    India     Bihar Agricultural Markets               -       115.0    12.9
312-IN       1972    India     Population                               -       21.2    13.4
342-IN       1972    India     Education                                -       12.0     11.8
356-IN       1972    India     IDBI                                     -       25.0     19.2
357-IN       1973   India      Nangal Fertilizer Expansion              -       55.0      0.5
377-IN       1973   India      Power Transmission III                   -       35.0     73.9
378-IN       1 973  India      Kysore Agricultural Markets              .        6l0      7.9
902-IN       1973   ICICI      Industry DFC X                          70.0      -       16.1
390-IN       1973    India     Bombay Water Suppl.y                     -      50        45.5
391-IN       1973    India     Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit       -       33.0     14.8
392-IN       1973    India     Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit        -       36.0     22.7
403-IN       1973    India     Telecommunications V                     -       80.0     44.2
427-IN       1973    India     Calcutta Urban Development               -       35.0     22.4
440-IN       1973    India     Bihar Agricultural Credit                -       32.0     23.1
456-IN       1974    India     HP Apple Processing & Marketing          -       13.0     13.0
481-IN       1974    India     TrombayIV                                -       3.0      43IV
1011-IN       1974   India      Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                 52.0      -       43.9
482-IN       1974    India      Karnataka Dairy                         -       30.0     30.0
502-IN       1974    India     Rajasthan Canal CAD                      -       63.0     62.1
520-IN       1974    India     Sindri Fertilizer                        -        i .0    79.8
521-IN       1974    India     Rajasthan Dairy                          -       27.7     27.6
522-IN       1974    India     Madhya Pradesh Dairy r                           16.4     1u.4
526-IN       1975    India     Drought Prone Areas                      -       35.0     3 .2
1079-IN       1975   India      IFFCO Fertilizer                       109.0      -      108.4
1097-IN       1975    India     Industry DFC II                        1W3.O      -       '95.2
5,32-IN     1975    India     Godavari Barrage Irrigation              -0               42.
54-I!!       1975    India     ARC Credit                               -                6 66.6
541-IN       1975    India     West Bengal Agr. Dev. Project            -       34.0     34.0
562-IN       1975    India     Chambal |Hadhya Pradesh) CAD             -       24.0     24.0
572-Ill      1975    India     Rural Electrification                    -       57.0     57.0
582-Ill      1975    India     Railways XIII                            -      110.0     R5 .
585-IN       1975    India     Uttar Pradesh Water Supply               -       40.0     40.0
598-Iv;      1975    India     Fertilizer Industry                      -      105.0    105.0
604-iN       1975    India     Fourth Power Transmission                -      150.0 '  150.0
609-I:N      1975    India     Madhya Pradesh Forestry Tech. Assist.    -        )4.0o    4.0
610-i1?      1976    India     Integrated Cotton Development            -       18.0"    18.0
616-ilu      1976    India     Industrial Imports XI                    -     200.0*   200.0
Total                                                               1,436.5  4,112.1
of which has been repaid
Total now outstanding
Amount sold                          111.5 
of wich has been repaid       111.
Total now held by Bank and IDA
Total undisbursed (including *)                                       274.   1,551.1 7,7279
N4Ot Yet effective
/ Prior to'exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
13. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of Maroh 31, 1976)
Amount (US$ million)
Year            Company                            Loan       Equity      Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.               1.5         -          1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                0.9         -          0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                    1.4         -          1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                         0.2         -          0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.             0.7        0.3         1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.              0.8        0).4        1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.            11.8        1.0        12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                1.0        0.3         1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                   1.0        0.1         1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                    8.6        2.9        11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                15.1        3.8        18.9
TOTAL                               43.0        8.8       51.8
Less:  Sold                               6.0        1.6         7.6
Repaid                           10.2          -        10.2
Cancelled                         6.2         0.7        6.9
Now Held                         20.6         6.5       27.1
Undisbursed                        9.5         -          9.5



ANNEX II
Page 3
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION -
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$480.3 million in FY75 or 57%
of Bank Group commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline
of US$1,825.9 million as of March 31, 1976, corresponds roughly to
commitments over the preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime
which would be expected given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects
in the India program.
Ln. No. 789    Ninth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$60.0 million loan of October 21, 1971; Effective
Date: December 20, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975; Effective
Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31. 1980
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. Loans 789-IN and 902-IN are
fully committed and commitments are progressing satisfactorily for Loan
1097-IN. Disbursements under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds Project; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;
Effective Date: September 12, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the development of seeds of high-yielding varieties. The Corporation is
working efficiently and has developed a reputation for excellent seed
quality. Seed production is meeting targets. Expansion of an existing
processing plant has been completed. Two other plants are being consider-
ably expanded. Bids have recently been cleared for orders to be placed for
the equipment necessary to complete the expansion program.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 176    Kadana Irrigation Project; US$35.0 million credit of
February 9, 1970; Effective Date: July 29, 1970; Closing
Date: September 30, 1976
This project will finance in part the construction of Kadana Dam
on the Mahi River and the expansion of the irrigated area below the dam. The
project also includes field channel construction, land-leveling, drainage
works and roads, and a program to support agricultural development. The
project will be completed about two years behind schedule because of delays
in dam construction. The agricultural components of the project are also
behind schedule. Some of the delays in implementation occurred at the
start of the project before major investments were made. These will not
affect the economic justification of the project. Further delays have
occurred as a result of building materials shortages. The Government
intervened and made adequate quantities of building materials available.
In spite of an additional delay in the procurement of a large batching
plant, the dam is still expected to be completed in July 1977, which is
in accordance with the revised schedule. A project review mission visited
the Project in January and is preparing its report.
Cr. No. 268    Pochampad Irrigation Project; US$39.0 million credit of
August 23, 1971; Effective Date: November 15, 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The project will assist the agricultural development on the right
bank of the Godavari River by providing perennial irrigation to some 100,000
ha. It includes the construction of Pochampad Dam, a concrete-lined main
canal, distributary canals, field channels, drains and roads. Until mid-
1973, overall performance on the project was satisfactory with construction
and disbursements from the IDA credit progressing ahead of schedule. For
two years, acute shortages of construction materials, especially explosives
for the canal excavation, and technical difficulties with the lining of the
main canal hampered progress. As a result, construction of the main canal
has fallen about one year behind schedule, which is likely to delay the
introduction of irrigation to over 40% of the project area. Since early
1975, all material shortages have been removed and progress has been satis-
factory. Construction of the dam is ahead of schedule. Land development,
however, is haphazard and increasingly lagging behind water availability
in the project area. The Pochampad component of the proposed Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation and Command Area Development Composite Project is designed to
remedy this inadequacy.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage ProjecL; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Tendering for the supply of equipment is under way. The contract
for civil works was recently awarded after international competitive bid-
ding.
Cr. No. 203    Punjab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit
of June 24, 1970; Effective Date:   September 4, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 226    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$24.4 million
credit of January 8, 1971; Effective Date: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 249    Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 278    Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit
of January 7, 1972; Effective Date: September 25, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 293    Maharashtra Agiricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million
credit of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: January 31, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976
Cr. No. 391    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 392    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: Mlarch 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 540    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$75.0 million credit of April 28, 1975;
Effective Date: August 5, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization
equipment only, all the above agricultural credit projects are similar in



ANNEX II
Page 6
structure, being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farm-
ers through credit institutions for such on-farm investments as tractors,
minor irrigation and land-leveling. Disbursement of the minor irrigation
components are on schedule. Tractor procurement was delayed following
changes in both the supply and demand situations after the projects were
originally appraised, which prompted GOI to request that indigenous as well
as imported models should be eligible for IDA financing under these credits.
The Executive Directors approved this request in December 1973 and those
credits which have tractor components have been amended accordingly. Tractor
procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. Credit 540 is a continuation
nationwide of the previous program of agricultural credit projects, which
were confined to individual states. ARDC will continue to act as the
financial intermediary for refinancing agricultural credit.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23, 1971;
Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date: September 30,
1978
The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has completed a contract for
construction of the silo foundations at two of the five silo sites. A tender
has been offered for foundations at the other three sites. Tenders have
been cleared for a part of the equipment. The godown component has been
fully disbursed. In addition, the All-India Grain Storage Study is progressing
and the staff training program has been planned in detail and is to be
implemented soon. Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading and
packing centers, cold storages, a juice processing plant, road improvements
and cableways. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. A June 1975 review mission recommended actions to
bring the project in line with managerial and technical capabilities and to
incorporate consultants' recommendations for modifying the cold storage
component. A recent review mission found a satisfactory improvement in the
prospects for successful project implementation. Disbursements should be
completed by the Closing Date.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1976
Disbursements were initially delayed mainly because of delays
in material supply from both local and external sources. Delays in local
supply were due to labor problems affecting one of the principal suppliers
and imports were delayed due to longer than anticipated leadtime required.
The revised disbursement schedule for this credit is now expected to be met.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 242    Power Transmission II Project; US$75.0 million credit of
May 3, 1971; Effective Date: July 29, 1971; Closing Date:
March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million
Credit of January 22, 1976; Effective Date: April 22,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Power Transmission II, which is a continuation of the project
financed by Loan 416-IN, was designed to assist in financing the purchase
of equipment and materials required to develop a power transmission program
in nine states under the Fourth Five-Year Plan. Initial delays occurred
because of problems associated with preparing bid documents suitable for
international bidding and the analysis of the very large number of bids
involved, but all contract awards have now been made. As a consequence
of the delays, however, the closing date of the credit had to be postponed
accordingly. For Power Transmission III, virtually all equipment has now
been ordered; there are likely to be substantial cost overruns, a portion
of which is being met through Power Transmission IV.
Cr. No. 264    Cochin II Fertilizer Project; oUS$20.0 million credit of
July 30, 1971; Effective Date:   December 2, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
Cr. No. 357    Nangal Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$58.0 million credit
of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: May 11, 1973; Closing
Date: March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079    IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979



ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31,. 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is intended to help finance the
expansion of fertilizer manufacturing facilities at Cochin. The project
is now proceeding about 24 months behind schedule, mainly because of pro-
curement delays, slow progress on civil works, and shortages of steel and
cement. Procurement problems have been largely overcome, and most of the
equipment is either at the site or at the Cochin port. Another factor which
has contributed to the delay has been technical problems in the commission-
ing of the Cochin I plant, which has required a disproportionate amount of
management attention. Credit No. 481 contains funds for a Plant Operations
Improvement Program which will be used in part to overcome these problems;
the use of these funds has been identified on a plant-by-plant basis and
procurement has been initiated. Engineering work, procurement and site
construction for the Nangal Fertilizer Project are proceeding satisfactorily,
but the project faces substantial cost over-runs due to increases in equipment
prices. Progress on the Trombay IV project has been good although project
completion may be delayed by about four months because of longer than
expected delivery times for critical equipment. Engineering design and
procurement for the Sindri project are proceeding on schedule. The IFFCO
project has been delayed by about a year as a result of a change in feedstock
from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in completion of engineering contracts.
Credit 598-IN is designed to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer
production capacity; implementation is now underway.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the projects has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in
Bihar was delayed due to legal challenges arising out of the state's acqui-
sition of land for market sites; however, these difficulties have been satis-
factorily resolved and construction of the first ten markets is well advanced.
Six markets are expected to open for business by mid June 1976. Market
construction in Karnataka is expected to be on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million Credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project implementation has improved with satisfactory progress
on civil works, preparation of equipment lists, bid documents, fellowship
programs and university development plans. The rate of disbursement has
been slow, partly due to previous delays in the selection of key personnel
and in the preparation of equipment lists, but is expected to improve in
line with progressing construction and equipment procurement.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The project had a particularly slow start which was mainly due
to institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.
(SFCs). However, there is now evidence of improvement in the utilization of
this credit. Commitments are virtually completed. In order to provide
continuity in the Bank Group's involvement with small and medium scale
industry, a second line of credit is being prepared, which would cover the
expected foreign exchange requirement of SFC sponsored small and medium scale
industrial projects for the two year period beginning on July 1, 1976.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appoint- nt of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain components of the project. Action has been
taken to redefine and rephase the project construction to fit the financing



ANNEX II
Page 10
available from the Credit, local loans and bonds, and internal cash genera-
tion of the project entity. The revised cost estimate for the implementation
period 1975/76 to 1979/80 amounts to US$266. million dollar equivalent exclud-
ing interest during construction. GOI has confirmed the revised project
description and is expected to confirm the project costs and financing plan
shortly. Meanwhile project construction is proceeding and most major con-
tracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been awarded. Disburse-
ments should therefore be faster in FY 1977 than in preceding years. Finan-
cial performance of the project entity during 1974/75 was satisfactory, but
major rate increases have been proposed to start in April 1976, to ensure con-
tinuing financial viability of the project entity.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
February 24, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
This credit was signed on February 24, 1976, and became effective
on April 1, 1976.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date:   January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Progress in implementation of this project is rather slow, in
view of the reduction in overall funding of the CMDA program, of which the
project forms part, and of management and organizational problems. Project
costs have increased considerably, especially in the water supply and
sewerage/drainage sectors. In order to accommodate the project to funding
available, CMDA has submitted a redefined project, which is expected to be
substantially completed by December 1978, about 24 months behind the original
schedule.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 millioni credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 11
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totaling US$74.1 million support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL
dairy cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. Progress on the Karnataka
project has been slow, partly because of inadequate staffing off the
Karnataka Dairy Development Corporation (KDDC) and partly due to poor
project management. However, improvement in implementation is expected
with the recent recruitment by KDDC of a management consultant. Training
has progressed with the completion of a two-month training program by 68
field staff. Overall, the project is six months behind the original sched-
ule. Progress under the Madhya Pradesh project is satisfactory, with the
Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Corporation having been established and
all key staff positions filled. Field staff training has commenced and
the first dairy cooperative societies should be established by December,
1975. Detailed design studies for plant construction have begun and con-
struction is expected to begin soon. With respect to the Rajasthan project,
the Rajasthan Dairy Development Corporation has been formed and key personnel
appointed. The first milk union has been formed and good progress has been
made in organizing dairy cooperatives at the village level.
Ln. No.-1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects are generally proceeding satisfactorily. In par-
ticular, agricultural extension has made remarkable progress.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides credit over 4 years for construction of about
18,000 shallow tubewells, 300 deep tubewells, 200 agro-service centers and
3 markets. The credit also helps the state to finance the completion of a
number of state-owned river lift and deep tubewell schemes and to improve
agricultural extension and maintenance facilities. Participating banks



ANNEX II
Page 12
and the Agricultural Refinance Corporation are preparing schemes for ini-
tiating the agricultural credit components. The state government has reor-
ganized its agricultural extension services and is taking steps to reorganize
the State Water Board and to carry out studies needed for completion of river
lift schemes.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
The project has progressed satisfactory furing the past six months.
Most staff are now in position and physical works are well underway. Pro-
gress has been slower in new activities (dry farming, dairy and sheep
development) because of delays in staffing and insufficient technical know-
ledge. Technical assistance, to be provided through the FAO Fund-in-Trust,
should help. To further improve the situation, at GOI request, a special
supervision mission will help identify training requirements and formulate
a training program.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1976; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date
September 30, 1977
This project consists of Indian Railways's new and on-going
investment program between April 1, 1975 and March 31, 1977. The credit
is expected to be fully disbursed by March 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Cr. No. 610     Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: August 24,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will demonstrate practical and effective means of
increasing cotton yields and maximizing by product recovery from ginning
and cotton seed processing. It will be executed over five years.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower                 :    India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries            :    There would be two categories of beneficiaries
under the project, those receiving funds as
part of government development assistance and
those borrowing from commercial credit insti-
tutions. Under the first category would be
included the States of Andhra Pradesh, Haryana,
Maharashtra and Punjab, the Indian Council for
Agricultural Research (ICAR), and agricultural
universities. The second category would include
the National Seeds Corporation (NSC); State Seeds
Corporations (SSC); agricultural universities for
farm production investments; State Farms Corpora-
tion of India (SFCI); Central and State Ware-
housing Corporations (CWC, SWC); Haryana Land De-
velopment and Reclamation Corporation (HLDC); and
private sector processors.
Amount                   :    US$25.0 million.
Terms                    :    20 years, including 5 years of grace, at 8.5%
annual interest.
Relending Terms               GOI to ICAR and States of Andhra Pradesh, Haryana,
Maharashtra and Punjab.
Financing of canal remodelling in Haryana,
equipment and facilities for state quality con-
trol agencies, seed technology research under
ICAR in designated agricultural universities and
research institutes; farm development by agricul-
tural universities; and training and technical
ass:Lstance would be transferred through the
mechanism of the Central hudget to the institu-
tions involved. Some fniids would be transferred
as grants, some as loans, in accordance with the
Borrower's standard arrangements for development
assistance to ICAR and the States. GOI's present
lending rate to the States is 5-1/2% per annum.
Agricultural universities would borrow at least
60% of the expenditures on land development at
interest rates of 9% per annum, minimum.



ANNEX III
Page 2
GOI to ARDC: Repayable over 15 years at not less
than 6-1/2% per annum net of any prompt payment dis-
counts.
ARDC to Banks: Interest at 8% per annum minimum
net of any prompt payment discounts; repayment to
coincide with payments by ultimate borrowers; re-
finance of up to 90% of commercial bank loans.
Banks to Borrowers: Interest at 11% per annum
minimum; grace period as necessary; loans to
finance up to 70% of cost of investments in
processing/production/storage facilities farm
development investments. Repayment over 5-15 years.
Lending Conditions
(i) Banks to SFCI, HLDC for Farm Development.
Detailed farm planning proposals, including soil,
topographical and groundwater survey, farm
mechanization plans and land development plans,
and cash flow statements to be provided; minimum
financial rate of return to be 20%, and suitable
cash flow. A government guarantee for repayment
of principal and interest would be required.
(ii) Banks to SSC/NSC. Detailed investment pro-
posal, supported by technical review and plant
design by NSC, to be submitted, including cash
flows and financial position.
(iii) Banks to CWC/SWC/NSC for Storage Facilities.
Investment proposals to be made by the institutions
themselves; for SWC, technical approval of CWC.
For CWC proposal, a CWC/NSC lease back contract,
and NSC agreement to the technical specifications
would be required. CWC to also provide overall
storage capacity availability and use statement
to justify expansion and choice of location and
size.
(iv) Banks to private processors. Loan propo-
sals for processing plant to be prepared with
technical review of plant design by NSC. Any
research farm development proposals to provide
details of (i) above.
Project Description      :   The project would be the first phase in the develop-
ment of India's National Seed Program to increase
the availability of high quality seed. Project
components would include:



ANNEX III
Page 3
- reorganization of the National Seeds Corpora-
tion (NSC) to carry out Its major responsi-
bilities for overall coordination and develop-
ment of India's seed industry and interstate
seed marketing; provision of equipment for NSC's
vegetable seed operation;
- expansion of seed storage capacity and establish-
ment of a reserve stock;
- establishment and equipment of 4 State Seed
Corporations (SSC);
- development of large scale farms for
certified seed production;
- development of university facilities for founda-
tion seed production, processing and storage;
- improvement of breeder seed production facili-
ties at agricultural universities and ICAR
institutes;
- development of seed technology research programs
at agricultural universities;
- provision of equipment and other facilities for
private seed processing corporations;
- expansion of quality control and certification
facilities; and
- provision.of training and technical assistance.



ANNEX III
Page 4
Estimated Costs                                              (US $ Million)
Local ForeLgn Total
SSC Processing Plants      11.0     4.2    15.2
Large Farm Development      4.6     1.3     5.9
State Agriculture
Universities
Breeder & Foundation
Seed Units           2.4      1.0     3.4
Seed Technology
Research Units        0.4     0.1     0.5
Sub-Total        2.8      1.1     3.9
Quality Control             0.7     0.2     0.9
Private Sector
Processors
Research & Extension    0.5     0.1     0.6
Processing Plants       4.1     1.1     5.2
Sub-Total         4.6      1.2     5.8
NSC Vegetable Seed Unit     0.3     0.3     0.6
Bulk & Transit Storage      2.3     0.4     2.7
Training & Technical
Assistance                0.1     0.2     0.3
Incremental Working
Capital                   3.8      -      3.8
Reserve Stocks              4.5      -      4.5
Total Before
Contingencies            34.7     9.0    43.7
Contingencies:
- Physical                1.8     0.5     2.3
- Price (14%)             5.1     1.6     6.7
Sub-Total               6.9     2.1     9.0
Total Project Cost         41.6    11.1    52.7



ANNEX III
Page 5
Financing Plan                                               (US $ Million)
Local Foreign Total
IBRD                        13.9    11.1    25.0
Local Sources
GOI                       12.6            12.6
State Governments          4.2             4.2
ARDC/Participating Banks   4.3             4.3
Sub-borrowers              6.6             6.6
Total                41.6    11.1    52.7
Estimated Disbursements                           FY77   FY78  FY79  FY80  FY81
Annual               2.15  7.95   9.4   4.9     .6
Cumulative           2.15  10.1  19.5  24.4  25.0
Procurement Arrangements:     Procurement would be coordinated by the Project
Monitoring and Management Committee (PMMC). Con-
tracts for equipment and machinery valued at
US$50,000 or more (US$15.1 M) would be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding
except in cases (totalling about US$2.0 M) where
procurement would be widely dispersed among
institutions and over time and it would not be
practicable to bulk items.   In these cases,
procurement would be on the basis of competitive
biddLng advertised locally and in accordance with
local procedures, which are satisfactory to the
Bank. Some items of minor equipment would be
needed on an urgent basis, and would be procured
by prudent shopping (total value US$1.0 M).
Procurement for the private sector (US$3.4 M)
would be left to customer choice.   Individual
purchases would be too small, varied and wide-
spread to permit bulking for competitive bidding.
Bulking would not be practicable for civil works,
buildings and furnishings (US$16.5 M), since
individual items are small and scattered geographi-
cally and over time. Contracts would be let
after competitive bidding advertised locally.
An exception would be canal remodelling in
Haryana (US$2.4 M). Bec use of the need to
minimize disruption of water supplies, the
work would be frequently interrupted and delayed
and would not attract contractors. Consequently,
it would be carried out by force account.
Vehicles (US$1.1 M) would also be procured on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally



ANNEX III
Page 6
since only a few would be purchased spread over
the project period. Motorcycles (US$0.5 M) would
be owned by staff, not as institutional fleets,
and would be purchased according to their prefer-
rence direct from dealers.
Technical Assistance     :   About US$0.3 million would be provided for tech-
nical assistance and training under the project.
Consultants required would be as follows:
- Seed technology research         :   2 manmonths
- Processing plant design          :   6 manmonths
- Quality control administration       2 manmonths
- Marketing, marketing training
and demand analysis            : 18 manmonths
Rate of Return                The economic rate of return would be about 65%.
Appraisal Report         :    No. 1064-IN, dated May 17, 1976






I N DI A
AFGHANISTAN                                                            NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
PROJECT   AREAS, MAJOR CROPS AND PLANT LOCATIONS
JAMIMMU os,d KASHMIA'                PASE I                   PHASE I
PROJECT STATE BOUNDARIES  STATES' MAJOR SEED PRODUCTION
'_______ PROJECT DISTRICT BOUNDARIES  .   A. AND PADDY
-WRAT AND COATON
PHASE 11
J CRTN AND  -SIRID -A-AS
41MACHA-                         POJECT STATE BOUNDARIES  -    ,   A  I  GIN
JN ;Z BRADF.H   >              PROJECT DISTRICT BOUNDARIES  P'01'R  DRANIN
_57                         JUL<     >         }PRYAN YRDGAN
PAK I STA N        LOIN       h
-  c     H        I        N       A                      3,
t          tap       S       <          ~~~~~~~(T  I B E T)                    ,F      'i
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t AZA D ff YAS PRa D f Sff l < \ ,z4 R A 
-2S   ~       ~     ~    ~    ~~    ~~ J A 54 T H A IVf j        'S,' S                                              2
8                          0  m  g  t+\ 4 H A 8, S 5 H ~~~~~~~~~~~p.t0 
Sea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
,4 r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ab                                                  /7 '  '1, ph.1
d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -.v              - LAN LOCAT,ONS
\_ BDngqa ) zdros ' 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSES NATIONAL BULK SERD STORAGE
, BAUGAOBESI   R%   $                         0   PROPOSES NEW PLANTS FOR PHASE S
0 ?l  ESISTI NG TBC PLANTS
-I--I--IA             tl -, RAILWAYS
_,ARA-                                                                   I STATE ANS ANIAN TERRITORY CAPITALS  IdPID
Cochinta / v ~~~~~~~~~~STAYE ANB UNION TERRITORY ROUNDARIES             Jj
/0Xsu  0  E t                -.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOGNOARIES-h
AriNgndrum HYA     H viSR I LANKA                   M
5,C                                                                                  KILOMETERS_
2e                                     I.'d
R                                                          V  ....  o  w;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c k'/Sh-=P 10t 'O~~~~~~~~~~11  IIIIOD  101II  11  I  A  II0'
W                            TO  8g > 9|0 * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B -"                              AIPRI  l,,,tY,IAl .P5O I  by  Ill 
h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W,dBl , I 001



