Report No. 1064a-IN
Appraisal of National Seed Proiect India
May 17, 1976                        9t/t
South Asia Projects Department
General Agriculture Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1           =   R 8.75
R 1             =   US$0.11
R 1 million (M) =   US$114,286
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Units are used.
1 Metric ton (m ton)     =   1,000 Kilograms (kg)
I Quintal (qtl)          =   100 kilograms
1 Hectare (ha)           =   2.47 acres
INDIAN FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICUIL USE ONLY
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED' PROJECT
Abbreviations
ARDC    -     Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CSC     -     Central Seed Committee
CSCB    -     Central Seed Certification Board
GOAP    -     Government of Andhra Pradesh
GOH     -     Government of Haryana
GOI     -     Government of India
GOM     -     Government of Maharashtra
GOP     -     Government of Punjab
HYV     -     High Yielding Variety
ICAR    -     Indian Council of Agricultural Research
ICDP    -     Integrated Cotton Development Project
NSC     -     National Seed Corporation
NSDC    -     National Seed Development Council
PMMC    -     Project Management and Monitoring Committee
SFCI    -     State Farms Corporation of India
SSC     -     State Seed Corporation
SSCA    -     State Seed Certification Agency
Glossary
Breeder seed   - seed of high genetic purity, produced by the plant breeder.
Foundation seed- progeny of breeder seed (or of first generation foundation
seed), produced to statutory quality control standards.
Certified seed - progeny of foundation seed, produced to statutory quality
control standrds.
Kharif season  - monsoon season (May - October).
Rabi season    - dry season (November - April).
This document hu a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World hnk authorization.






INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..........................                       i-iii
I.        INTRODUCTION  - ...............  .. .  .. .....  .                           1
II.        BACKGROUND  ...................... o.. ...... f..i                            1
A. General  ..............* ...............o .  .  .    ........... 1-
B. Seed Industry  .... .o.... . .. . . . .. . .  ...... ....... . . .. .     1
III.        NATIONAL SEED PROGRAM  ...o .... ....   ......  ....  .....                   3
IV.        THE PROJECT  ........ . .-... .. .. . .. .  ....o......o ..o.o.o.o. ....      4
A.   Project Area  ... . .-.-. . . . ....... . .. . -. . .. .-........       4
B.  Detailed Features  .. ....  ............-..oo..                          4
C.  Cost Estimates  .................  ...... ... .....                     12
D.   Proposed Financing  . .......  .......o.-.-...... . . . . .  .         14
E.  Procurement  ......... .. . .. . . .. .  ...... . -- . .....  . .  .    15
F.  Disbursements  . .. ... .....-. . .. . . . ..  .......   . .....  .-.   16
V.        ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ................... o-o                        17
A.   Project  Institutions  .... -..           -..............              17
B.  Credit  ........--..*..........           ................              19
C.  Accounting and Audit  ...4. .....................                       20
VlI.       MARKETING   o .... o.oooo .................... -o..o.-.o.....                20
A.  Demand  ............. 000..0.0..*.................. 000 .000            20
B.   Pricing  ... o-- ... .. -..... .............                           21
C.   Distribution  ... ...................... -.... .oo ....... .o..        21
D.  Promotion ... .................................                         22
VII.         OPERATING RESULTS AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION  .....                         22
A.   Operating Results  ...             .*..*..        ... .    .           22
B.   Economic Justification  .......          .      .........             23
VIII.         RECOMMENDATIONS  .-... .......-.....           o..................          25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
India from October through November 1975. The mission was composed of
Messrs F. Thornley, A.K. Seth, I. Harvey, (Bank), D. Kayron (CP) and
P. Berg, J.C. Delouche, F. N. Norden, J.M. Poehlman (Consultants). Messrs
A. Seager (Bank) and A. Boyd (Consultant) also assisted part time.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.      Plant Breeding, Breeder and Foundation Seed Production and
Seed Technology Research
2.      Farm and Related Development
3.      Processing
4.      Private Sector
5.      Quality Control
6.      Technical Assistance and Training
7.      Project Costs and Financing Plan
8.      Disbursement Schedule
9.      Organization and Management (Implementation Schedule)
10.      Lending Operations
11.      Marketing
12.      Financial and Economic Analyses
MAP



INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Agriculture is the backbone of the Indian economy - accounting for
45% of GNP, 70% of employment and producing the raw material for the major
export commodities. Agricultural growth will depend on increased produc-
tivity - since there is little new land to cultivate - and one crucial element
is the spread of improved crop varieties through an efficient seed industry.
ii.       Seed demand at present is strong, unsatisfied and expected to con-
tinue expanding. However the present structure of the seed industry is un-
satisfactory. Government of India has therefore prepared a National Seed
Program to restructure the industry and improve the quantity and quality of
seed produced.
iii.      The proposed project would be the first phase in the implementation
of the National Seed Program. It would be the second Bank Group project to
support India's seed industry. The first, the Tarai Seeds Project (IN-614),
has been successful and Tarai experience has been a significant factor in
the development of proposals for this project.
iv.       The project would be concerned mainly with major cereal crops and
cotton, the latter as an essential complement to the IDA financed 610-IN
Integrated Cotton Development Project (ICDP). Cereal seed output would be
increased by about 73,000 m ton; 60% of present output. Cotton seed pro-
duction, negligible now, would be 14,000 m ton.
V.        State Seed Corporations (SSC) would be established in Andhra Pradesh,
Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab - regions of comparative advantage for seed
production - to produce, process and market certified seed. This would be
grown by SSC shareholding farmers in compact areas around large scale pro-
cessing plants. Agricultural Universities would have prime responsibility
for producing foundation and breeder seed - close association of University
scientists is expected to achieve necessary quality improvements in these
early, critical, generations in the seed multiplication chain. Independent
State Seed Certification Agencies (SSCA) would be established and seed test-
ing laboratories expanded to provide quality control services. The project
would also support the expansion of private sector seed companies to main-
tain competitive balance in the industry.
vi.       The National Seed Corporation (NSC), hitherto the country's major
seed producer and certification agency, would gradually divest itself of
these functions to become a service agency. Main responsibilities would be
interstate marketing; operation of a reserve stock scheme; foundation seed
production; collaboration with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research
(ICAR) on coordination of breeder seed production; and design of, and pro-
curement for, processing plants. Through cross representation between NSC
and SSC Boards, NSC would be the main forum for coordination of seed industry
development.



- ii -
vii.      Limited technical assistance, 28 man months, would be provided
to assist with processing plant design, development of seed technology
research, reorientation of NSC marketing activity, and improvement of
SCA management.
viii.     Project costs over a five year disbursement period are estimated
at US$52.7 M including US$11.1 M foreign exchange. Main investments would
be: processing plants; land and irrigation development and machinery for
large scale seed farms; University facilities for seed technology research
and breeder and foundation seed production units; buildings, equipment and
vehicles for quality control agencies; buildings and equipment for private
sector processors; seed stores; reserve stocks; incremental permanent work-
ing capital for SSC and private sector companies; and training and technical
assistance.
ix.       A Bank loan to GOI of US$25.0 M is proposed to cover 50% of project
costs net of duties and taxes, equivalent to foreign exchange and about 34% of
local costs. Bank funds for research and breeder seed production by Univer-
sities, farm development by agricultural universities, quality control, irri-
gation canal remodelling, and training and technical assistance (US$6.85 M)
would be channeled by GOI through ICAR, State Governments,the Central Seed
Certification Board, Government of Haryana and NSC respectively. All other
Bank funds (US$18.15 M) would be channeled by GOI, through the Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation and commercial banks, for on-lending to
institutional borrowers on prevailing terms and conditions, which are satis-
factory to the Bank. The balance of project costs would be met by GOI
(US$12.6 M); State Governments (US$4.2 M); ARDC and commercial banks
(US$4.35 M): and sub-borrowers (US$6.6 M).
x.        Major items of seed processing and laboratory equipment and farm
machinery (US$15.1 M) would be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts for minor
items of equipment, not exceeding US$50,000 each, would be let after com-
petitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures
which are satisfactory to the Bank. Urgent purchase of minor equipment, to a
value of US$1.0 M, would be by prudent shopping, and, to speed implementation,
it is proposed that equipment appropriately procured, to a value of US$0.5 M,
be eligible for retroactive financing. Procurement for the private sector
(US$3.4 M) would be left to customer choice. Individual purchases would be
too small, varied and widespread to permit bulking for competitive bidding.
Contracts for civil works, buildings and furnishing (US$16.5 M), would be let
after competitive bidding advertilised locally, since individual items are
small and scattered over a wide area. An exception would be canal remodel-
ling in Haryana which would be carried out by force account (US$2.4 M). The
work would be frequently interrupted and delayed to minimize disruption of
water supplies and would therefore not attract contractors. Vehicles
(US$1.1 M) would also be procured on the basis of competitive bidding adver-
tised locally since only a few would be purchased spread over the project pe-
riod. Motorcycles (US$0.5 M) would be owned by staff and would be purchased



- iii -
according to their preference direct from dealers. Employment of consultants
and overseas training (US$0.3 M) would be on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank. The balance of project costs (US$10.4 M) would cover
reserve stocks, permanent working capital and operating costs not involving
procurement.
xi.       The main project benefit would be increased crop yields of seed
users. Projected annual incremental cereal production at full development
would be wheat 200,000 m ton, paddy 170,000 m ton, maize 95,000 m ton,
sorghum 200,000 m ton and pearl millet 250,000 m ton. Total value would be
US$145 M per year. Because most project cotton seed would be an input to
the ICDP it has been valued at the input price used in ICDP rate of return
calculations. On this basis cotton seed output would be worth US$3.7 M
per year. It is estimated that 3 M farmers would benefit from the use of
project seed. In addition about 14,000 man years of seasonal employment
would be created for harvesting. The project has an estimated economic
rate of return of 65%.
xii.      The project is considered suitable for a Bank loan of US$25.0 M,
with a maturity of 20 years, including 5 years of grace. The borrower
would be GOI.






INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) has requested World Bank finance for
a National Seed Project estimated to cost a total of US$52.7 M. This would be
the second Bank Group project to support development of India's seed industry.
The first, the Tarai Seeds Project (614-IN, 1969) has been successful.
The experience of the Tarai Development Corporation, which has a reputation
for producing quality seed, has been a significant factor in the development
of proposals for the project.
1.02      The project was prepared by a GOI working group based on National
Seed Corporation (NSC) personnel, assisted by staff of the Bank's New Delhi
Office. Assistance was also provided by both the FAO/WB Cooperative Program
(CP) and Bank headquarters staff. This report is based on the findings of an
appraisal mission comprising Messrs. F. Thornley, A. K. Seth, I. Harvey (Bank),
D. Kayran (CP) and P. H. Berg, J. C. Delouche, F. Norden and J. M. Poehlman
(Consultants) which visited India in October/November 1975. The mission was
assisted part-time by Messrs. A. Seager (Bank) and A. H. Boyd (Consultant).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      India's 603 M population is growing at 2.3% per year; per capita
income (US$115 in 1975) at 1.4%. About 70% of the employed population is
engaged in agriculture, which accounts for about 45% of GNP and produces the
raw material for the major export commodities: jute, tea, leather, cotton
goods and cashews.
2.02      The current ten year growth rate in agriculture is about 3%.  Com-
pared with previous decades increases in yield have contributed more to
growth than increases in cropped area. The higher yields have resulted from
the use of seed of high-yielding varieties (HYV) together with more intensive
use of the complementary inputs, in particular fertilizer, pesticides and
irrigation.
B. Seed Industry
2.03      HYV resulted from plant breeding breakthroughs starting in the
early sixties. Before that the seed industry was little developed. The
private sector produced small quantities of high value flower and vegetable
seed. The public sector attempted to disseminate improved seed from small,
Government run farms located in each Community Development Block, with



-2-
little success. The difficulties of managing so diffuse a scheme resulted in
poor quality seed and imbalance in supply and demand.
2.04      The release of India's first maize hybrids in 1961 was followed
by hybrids of sorghum and pearl millet, then by high yielding dwarf rice
varieties and finally by the high yielding dwarf wheats. All were highly
responsive to higher input use, gave greater profits, and created a strong
demand for quality seed.
2.05      In response there was a rapid growth of private sector seed com-
panies. In the public sector, GOI, recognizing that a wide scatter of small
Block seed farms was inappropriate to the technological needs of hybrid seed
production, decided to create a central seed organization. GOI also decided
to promote legislation to establish quality control. Thus in 1963 the
National Seed Corporation (NSC) was established and in 1966 a Seeds Act was
passed. NSC was charged to promote seed industry development, from produc-
tion through processing, storage and marketing, and to establish a system of
quality control.
2.06      Through the mid sixties seed output expanded rapidly - the cert-
ified area from 360 ha to 35,000 ha between 1963-64 and 1968-69. This was
mainly in the private sector, with the Bank supported Tarai Development
Corporation (TDC) a late comer in the field (para 1.0). During this period
NSC was concerned mainly with foundation seed production and, after the
passing of the Seed Act in 1966, with seed certification.
2.07      Unfortunately demand for seed grew more slowly than expected.  In
the self-pollinated crops - wheat and rice - farmer retention and farmer
to farmer transfer accounted for much of the seed used; some of the HYV
were inferior in grain quality to traditional types and thus lost favor.
Substantial overproduction occurred and large stocks accumulated with State
Governments. Thus 1968-1971 was a period of retrenchment. Many private
companies withdrew from seed production, several went into liquidation.
2.08      Demand began to pick up in 1971-72, but the industry lacked the
resources and confidence to meet it. NSC stepped in and developed a program
which in 1974/75 produced 73,000 tons of seed (about 50% of national out-
put), making NSC by far the largest seed producer in the country. Seed was
produced almost entirely through contracts with progressive farmers. A
feature of this NSC program was the introduction of scientific seed process-
ing.  Previously seed had little or no processing, to the detriment of
quality.
2.09      During the period of retrenchment State Governments curtailed
production and only a few have since revived this activity, some using
contract growers others using large departmental farms. The small Block
farms are now seldom used. The seed is not usually certified and is gen-
erally sold at little more than grain price as part of extension programs.
2.10      Because of the considerable changes in the seed industry during
the sixties, and to facilitate planning, GOI decided to undertake a com-
prehensive survey of seed industry development. A Seed Review Team was



established and reported on the industry in depth in 1968 1/. A further
review was conducted by the National Commission on Agriculture in 1971.
Based on their findings, and the encouraging experience with the Tarai Pro-
ject, GOI decided to reorganize and expand the seed industry. In February,
1975 a working group was established, based on NSC personnel, to prepare
proposals for a National Seed Program.
III. THE NATIONAL SEED PROGRAM
3.01      Agricultural growth, basic to economic growth in India, will depend
on greater productivity - since there is little new land to cultivate. The
key to greater productivity is the spread of improved crop varieties. Quality
seed is therefore an input essential to the continued development of Indian
agriculture. Seed demand at present is strong, unsatisfied, and expected
to continue expanding. To meet this demand, and to overcome past problems
- inadequate quantities and quality of breeder and foundation seed, in-
adequate quality control, and imbalance in supply and demand - a nationally
coordinated seed development program is necessary.
3.02      The National Seed Program would support all facets of seed produc-
tion, from breeder and foundation seed production through certified seed pro-
duction, processing, storage and marketing. At the time of appraisal eight
States had been identified as program participants. Several other States
have expressed interest but their role has yet to be defined. It is vital
this be done quickly since it affects the Apportionment of market shares
amongst States. The need is recognized and will be addressed by the con-
tinuing operation of the working group.
3.03      A major feature of the Program would be the establishment of State
Seed Corporations (SSC), similar to the Tarai Development Corporation, with
modern processing plants, to take over the production role which NSC had
performed by default. SSC would be created in regions with a comparative
advantage for producing particular crops. Each crop would be produced by more
than one SSC, to ensure competition and safeguard production. Seed would be
produced in compact areas around each plant by growers with a shareholding in
the SSC. This would contrast markedly with the past NSC pattern of scattered
production by contract. The new approach would improve efficiency in quality
control, supervision and transport. Quality is also expected to benefit from
the vested interest shareholder growers would have in seed industry success.
3.04      Breeder seed production would be coordinated by the Indian Council
for Agricultural Research (ICAR), and facilities improved to increase output
and quality. Foundation seed production would be coordinated by NSC, again
with support for improved production. Agricultural Universities would be
assigned a major role in breeder and foundation seed production. Close
involvement of plant breeders, and other scientists, in the seed industry
should go far toward achieving quality improvements.
3.05      NSC would coordinate interstate seed marketing which would help
harmonize supply and demand. NSC would also establish seed stores to
1/   Government of India, Seed Review Team Report, 1968.



-4-
improve distribution and help maintain seed quality in the marketing chain.
A reserve stock scheme would be operated by NSC, to buffer supply/demand
imbalances.
3.06      Independent State Seed Certification Agencies would be developed
or strengthened in producing States to ensure the quality of foundation and
certified seed. Special arrangements would be made to monitor breeder
seed quality 1/.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The project would be the first phase in the development of the
National Seed Program. It would cover four States: Andhra Pradesh, Haryana,
Maharashtra and Punjab. It would also provide assistance to NSC, to improve
storage and marketing and for vegetable seed production, and to Universities
- through ICAR - to improve breeder seed production and create or improve seed
technology research capabilities. Production of certified seed of the major
cereals would increase by 73,000 m ton, about 60% of present national output,
(wheat 34,500, rice 9,600, maize, sorghum and pearl millet 29,000). Cert-
ified cotton seed production, negligible now, would be 14,000 m ton.
A. Project Area (Map 11967)
4.02      Selection of phase one States was based on:  the preparedness of
their proposals; their present and proposed importance as producers of major
crop seed and, except for Andhra Pradesh, the need to produce certified
cotton seed as an essential input to the Integrated Cotton Development
Project (610 IN).
4.03      Within States project areas were selected because they were above
average in productivity. All have a good proportion under irrigation. They
have good internal and external communications and, in three of the States,
they are centers of NSC production and processing activity and thus have a
nucleus of experienced seed producers and some processing capacity. In
Maharashtra there is no processing capacity in the project areas of use to the
SSC and a bridging operation would be particularly important (para 4.19).
With the exception of Andhra Pradesh the Agricultural Universities are in, or
adjacent to, project areas.  In Andhra Pradesh the merits of the area selected
outweigh the disadvantage of distance from the University.
B. Detailed Features
4.04      The project would:
1/   Breeder seed is not normally subject to certification.



- 5 -
-    improve breeder and foundation seed production;
-    develop three large scale farms for certified seed
production;
-    remodel canals supplying irrigation water to large
project farms in Haryana;
-    establish and equip SSC;
-    support expansion of private sector seed operations;
-    expand seed storage capacity and establish a reserve stock;
-    expand quality control facilities;
-    provide equipment for the expansion of NSC's vegetable seed
operation;
-    develop seed technology research; and
-    provide training and technical assistance.
Breeder Seed Production 1/
4.05      The project would improve facilities for breeder seed production
at 20 Agricultural Universities and ICAR Institutes. ICAR would coordinate
breeder seed production and determine the particular investment needs of each
institution, designating a senior official to be responsible for this task.
Suitable assurances to this effect were given by GOI.
4.06      Responsibility for the production of breeder seed of each variety
would be with the originating breeder or, failing that, the institution.
Institutions receiving project support would establish production units
equipped and staffed to specialize in breeder seed production 2/. This
would relieve breeders of non-scientific tasks but they would be responsible
for breeder seed quality. To further safeguard quality, breeder seed plots
would be examined by officials representing ICAR, NSC, the State Seed
Certification Agency and the breeder. Grow out tests would be performed on
each seed lot.
4.07      To prevent supply/demand imbalance in this most critical generation,
a 50% stock would be carried over each season in controlled environment stor-
age. Details of proposals to improve breeder seed production are at Annex 1.
1/   See glossary for definitions of breeder, foundation and certified seed.
2/   At Universities producing breeder and foundation seed, one seed pro-
duction unit would be responsible for both.



-6-
Foundation Seed Production
4.08      The NSC would estimate demand and coordinate production of found-
ation seed of varieties of all India importance; SSC would be responsible
for regional varieties. To insure against inadequate supplies, foundation
seed would be included in a reserve stock scheme. Major responsibility
for foundation seed production would rest with the Agricultural Universities.
Where their land was insufficient, seed supply would be supplemented from
other institutions with large farms, such as the State Farms Corporation of
India (SFCI). All foundation seed would be subject to certification by State
Seed Certification Agencies. Grow-out tests would be performed on each
lot.
4.09      The project would develop University units 1/ for foundation seed
production, processing and storage. Main investments would be for improve-
ments to irrigation, land development, tractors and machinery, seed process-
ing equipment and buildings.  Details for seed production and processing are
at Annex I and for farm development at Annex 2. Farm development proposals
were not based on detailed farm plans; it would therefore be a condition of
disbursement against University farm development costs that farm plans, satis-
factory to the Bank, had been prepared.
4.10      Both Andhra Pradesh and Punjab Agricultural Universities lack land
for foundation seed production. The State Governments agreed to transfer
additional land to them and it would be a condition of disbursement, against
the Andhra Pradesh and Punjab components of the project, that land satis-
factory to the Bank had been transferred.
Certified Seed Production
4.11      SSC would organize certified seed production through shareholding
farmers - mainly small scale private farmers. The fewer operational holdings
involved in seed production the better - the work of seed corporations and
quality control agencies would be simplified and costs reduced - however,
there are few large farms in project areas. The compact area approach to
seed production would be adopted to reduce, as far as possible, the inherent
inefficiencies of many, small producers.
4.12      Large Farm Development.  In the Haryana and Punjab project areas
there are three large farms suitable for seed production. These would be
developed mainly for certified seed production, but also to provide a reserve
capacity for foundation seed. Two of the farms are operated by SFCI; the
other is presently owned by the Haryana Seeds Development Corporation
(HSDC) - which would become the Haryana SSC.  An assurance was obtained, that
the HSDC farm would be transferred to the Haryana Land Development Corpora-
tion. Operation of a farm would unnecessarily complicate HSDC's manage-
ment; also, since other SSC do not operate farms, it could interfere with
1/   At Universities producing breeder and foundation seed, one seed produc-
tion unit would be responsible for both.



- 7 -
interstate cohesion on policy issues. On-farm investments would be similar
to those for University farms (para. 4.09). Details are at Annex 2. As with
University farms it would be a condition of disbursement that farm plans
satisfactory to the Bank had been prepared.
4.13      Irrigation Canal Remodeling.  The two large farms in Haryana adjoin
the University Farm. All three are part of a large block of Government
owned land to which irrigation water is supplied by the Bhakra canal system.
Present supply is inadequate. However in 1977 a canal linking the Beas and
Sutlej river systems will be completed. More water would then be available
in the Bhakra canal system. It is proposed to increase the capacity of the
canals serving the above block to increase seed production and make it more
certain. Details are in Annex 2.
Seed Processing
4.14      SSC would be responsible for seed processing.  They would take over
suitable NSC processing facilities and construct new plants as follows:
Nominal Capacity 1/ 2/
Location                        (tons)                   Main Crops
Andhra Pradesh - Eluru            10,000             rice, maize, sorghum
- Nizamabad        5,000             pearl millet, sorghum, maize
Haryana        - Hissar            1,000             cotton
- Sirsa            5,000             cotton, wheat
- Thanesar       10,000              wheat, rice
Maharashtra    - Akola        (5,000) 5,000          (cotton), sorghum, pearl
millet, maize, jute
- Parbhani   (2,500) 5,000           (cotton), sorghum, pearl
millet, maize, jute
Punjab         - Jullundur         5,000             wheat, rice
- Ludhiana         5,000             wheat, rice
- Mukstar          5,000             cotton, wheat
1/   The capacity of a processing unit would vary with location - climate
determining processing season - and crop mix. Nominal capacities
assume: wheat, 100 day season, 2 shift working.
2/   At Sirsa and Mukstar cotton and wheat seasons are different therefore
some facilities would be shared, in Maharashtra the crops compete and
cotton would need a processing line separate from cereals.



- 8 -
4.15      Cereal plants would be developed around a 5,000 ton nominal capa-
city module. This would be designed and constructed to permit expansion
with minimal disruption and sites must be adequate to allow this; require-
ments are indicated in Annex 3.
4.16      Cotton seed plant design would not be modular.  The choice of
technology for cotton seed processing is problematic. The ideal would be
acid delinting. However capital and operating costs of acid plants are
high and management problems great. With no operational experience avail-
able it would be imprudent to launch completely into large scale acid delint-
ing. Under the project most cotton processing would therefore be based on
mechanical delinting. However, 1,000 m ton acid plants would be established
at Hissar and Akola to gain operating experience. The seed technology
units to be developed at the Universities (para 4.34) would monitor plant
performance and experiment with alternate technologies. Gins would be pro-
vided at the cotton plants in Haryana and Punjab but not in Maharashtra,
where ginning capacity is adequate.
4.17      In addition to cotton and cereal plants, 5,000 ton cold stores for
certified potato seed would be constructed in Haryana and Punjab. Cold stor-
age is essential to maintain quality of seed potatoes which must be held
through the hot summer months. Details of processing plant designs and
costs are at Annex 3.
4.18      SSC would contract with NSC for plant design, preparation of tender
documents and procurement and installation of equipment. This arrangement
would be embodied in the NSC/SSC agreements (para 5.05). Tendering and
supervision of civil works contracts would be handled by SSC or, if they
desired, by NSC.  Since cotton seed processing and the proposed cereal plant
designs, are new to NSC, technical assistance would be provided for early
design work (para 4.36). It would be a condition of disbursement against
processing plant costs that the design of each cotton plant, and of the 5,000
ton and 10,000 ton cereal plant modules, had been approved by the Bank.
4.19      New processing plants would come on stream in April-June 1978 (see
project implementation schedule, Annex 9). By then lack of processing capa-
city would constrain seed output. Existing plant capacities would therefore
be temporarily increased by adding equipment purchased under the project.
Most of the equipment would subsequently be transferred to the new plants.
Design needs would be negligible and procurement would be rapid 1/. Details
of these proposals are at Annex 3.
Seed Storage
4.20      Stores would be constructed at three points in the distribution
chain: transit stores, bulk distribution depots and the processing plant.
1/   It is proposed that the equipment be financed retro-actively if the
equipment can be purchased before loan signing (para 4.41).



-9-
Transit stores would be located in consumption areas to service dealers;
about 64 stores with a total capacity of 11,500 m ton would be constructed.
In general, they would be owned by State Warehousing Corporations (SWC) and
leased to NSC; where SWC did not operate, they would be owned by NSC. Designs
would be approved by the Central Warehousing Corporation (CWC) (para 5.12).
4.21      To ensure timely availability of seed in consumption areas five
bulk stores (total capacity 34,000 tons) would be constructed in climatically
suitable areas. They would be designed and constructed by CWC for lease to
NSC. The remaining storage, equal to about 50% of seasonal throughput, would
be an integral part of each processing plant.
4.22      Reserve Stock Scheme.  Natural hazards - weather and disease
epidemics - would continue to cause marked fluctuations in seed supply and
demand. To buffer seed users and new seed corporations against their effects,
a reserve stock scheme would be created for foundation and certified seed of
major cereals. The scheme would be operated by NSC. Reserve stocks of found-
ation seed would be held at production point in agreement with producing
institutions; stocks would be 10% for wheat and rice and 50% for cereal
hybrids. Certified stocks would be held at suitable processing plants, in
agreement with SSC, since holdover stocks should be untreated. Storage down
stream from plants could lead to expensive condemnation or rehandling of
stocks. Amounts held would be: rice 2%, wheat 3%, hybrid cereals 10%.
Details of storage proposals, plant and ex-plant, are at Annexes 3 and 11
respectively.
The Private Sector
4.23      India's seed industry has a well established private sector.  It
is particularly strong in cereal hybrids (over 50% of national output),
vegetable and flower seed. The sector has established a foothold in the
export market with high value seed requiring large labor inputs in production.
The project would support the continued expansion of the private sector to
maintain the public/private sector balance and thus maintain the spur of
competition.
4.24      Support for all relevant activity, from plant breeding through to
processing and storage, would be eligible for project financing. Unlike the
public sector, investment proposals would not be uniform. Individual pro-
posals would be financed through, and subject to the appraisal of, com-
mercial banking channels. In addition, it would be a condition of disburse-
ment against any proposal that it had been subject to the technical scrutiny
of NSC.
4.25      In the past the private sector has been subjected to varying
degrees of discrimination by State Governments in favor of their own opera-
tions. Assurances were obtained that the private sector would be treated
equally with the public sector with respect to: supplies of foundation seed;
access to quality control services; access to variety trials; and seed



- 10 -
movement. The private sector project participants would be represented on
all major institutions involved in the project and therefore able to voice
concern should discrimination occur. Details of the private sector and
proposed project support are at Annex 4.
Quality Control
4.26      Rigid quality control at every stage of seed production would be
critical to project success. Seed certification would be undertaken by
independent State Seed Certification Agencies (SCA) registered under the
Societies Registration Act of 1960. At present Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra
have certification agencies in their Agriculture Departments. Haryana and
Punjab have notified NSC as their certification agency. Independent agencies
have been registered under the Societies Act, in accordance with a memoranda
of association satisfactory to the Bank.
4.27      The project would finance the investments needed to develop the
SCA, including operating deficits during the project period. After two or
three years the SCA should be self supporting. Details of estimated capital
and operating costs and revenues are at Annex 5.
4.28      To coordinate seed certification at the national level, and to
ensure interstate uniformity of operation, GOI has established a Central
Seed Certification Board, with composition satisfactory to the Bank.
4.29      A seed testing service is rquired to determine compliance with
the regulatory aspects of the Seeds Act. One well staffed and equipped seed
testing laboratory in each State would be adequate. The project would
establish or improve laboratories in three States; Maharashtra has an ade-
quate laboratory. GOI operates a Central Seed Testing Laboratory which would
act as referee in disputes. It would also continue to develop and standardize
seed testing procedures and to monitor performance of State laboratories.
4.30      Little progress has been made in implementing the regulatory as-
pects of the Seeds Act. GOI is now considering a proposal to assist States
establish independent agencies, to enforce minimum quality standards under
the Fertilizers Control Order and Insecticides Act in addition to the Seeds
Act. Assurances were obtained that, pending creation of new Agencies,
States would intensify seed inspection under present arrangements, until
at least 50% of dealerships handling certified or "truthfully labelled" 1/
seed were being inspected annually.
4.31      Assurances were obtained that for cotton seed production State
Governments would designate and enforce appropriate one variety communities
and gins. Necessary legislation exists but has not been implemented.
4.32      SSC would monitor quality throughout their own operations and each
would establish a small quality control section (details in Annex 5).
1/   As defined in the Seeds Act.



- 11 -
NSC Vegetable Seed
4.33      Expansion of vegetable seed output is justified in the face of
increasing demand (Annex 11) and the desirability of increasing vegetable
consumption (a low 40 gm/day/head against a GOI target of 280 gm). Vegetable
seed production is more complicated than seed production of major crops
and transfer of responsibility to SSC would unduly burden management during
their formative years. NSC would therefore expand its vegetable seed opera-
tions by establishing small processing plants in seven producing areas. Seed
would then be concentrated at two of these, Delhi and Hyderabad, which would
also be equipped with packaging lines and controlled environment storage.
Details of proposed investments are in Annex 3.
Seed Technology Research
4.34      Applied, problem solving seed technology research is essential to
the development and increased efficiency of the seed industry. The project
would support the development of inter disciplinary (inter departmental)
programs at the Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab Agricultural Universities
and at the Akola and Parbhani Agricultural Universities in Maharashtra.
Given the anticipated nature and volume of work this would be more effective
than creation of separate seed technology departments. Project support would
cover investment costs and operating costs through the project period. There-
after it would be possible to finance seed technology research from the re-
search funds provided by SSC (para 7.04). Details of proposals, including
appropriate lines of research, and cost estimates are in Annex 1.
Training
4.35      Training would be required on a considerable scale to provide the
skilled staff necessary for an expanding industry. Much of this would be
on-the-job training. However some formal training would be required and is
included in the project. NSC and the Tarai Development Corporation would play
important roles in training SSC staff. Short overseas study tours would be
provided for key staff from NSC, SSC, Certification Agencies and Seed Testing
Laboratories and one candidate would be sent from each of the five universities
developing a seed technology program for advanced degree training overseas.
Details of training proposals and costs are at Annex 6.
Technical Assistance
4.36      Technical assistance would be limited.  A consultant would be
engaged to help Universities design seed technology research programs. NSC
engineers would require short-term assistance with processing plant design,
particularly for cotton plants with which there is no Indian experience, but
also with cereal and vegetable seed plants, since scale and equipment range
would be greater than before. State Seed Certification Agencies need help to



- 12 -
develop administrative procedures commensurate with greatly expanded activity,
and NSC's marketing department would be supported by consultant services to
re-direct efforts from distribution to promotion, to establish training pro-
grams to that end and to assist with seed demand surveys.  Assurances were
obtained that consultants would be employed in consultation with, and on
terms and conditions satisfactory to, the Bank. Details of technical assist-
ance proposals and costs are in Annex 6.
C. Cost Estimates
4.37      Eotal project costs, over five years, would be Rs 461 M (US$52.7 M)
of which about US$11.1 M would be foreign exchange. Details of project costs,
*ummarized on page 13, are in Annex 7.  Estimates are based on projected
ziid-1976 prices. Physical and price contingencies, amounting to 4% and 12%
respectively of project cost, have been applied as follows:
physical   -   5% for SSC, quality control and foundation seed
investments;
- 10% for large farm development, because detailed
plans were lacking;
-  20% for breeder and vegetable seed operations,
because proposed sites are scattered and not all
were fully appraised; and
- 25% for canal remodelling - completion of detailed
enginefring may reveal limited lining necessary.
price       -  on  iLvil works 8' in 1976 and 10% thereafter;
- ott local equipment 7% throughout; and
- on foreign equipment 10% in 1976, 8% in 1977-79
and 7% thereafter.



- 13 -
----Thousand Rupees-----    --Thousand US Dollars--
Category                    Local    Foreign   Total    Local    Foreign  Total
SSC Processing Plants       95,755   37,050   132,805   10,940    4,235   15,173
Large Farm Development      39,715   11,880    51,645    4,600    1,300    5,900
State Agriculture
Universities
Breeder & Foundation
Seed Units              20,310    9,000    29,310    2,320    1,030    3,350
Seed Technology
Research Units           3,720      815      4,535      430        90      520
Sub-Total              24,030    9,815    33,845    2,750    1,120    3,870
Quality Control              6,475    2,045      8,520       740      235       975
Private Sector
Processors
Research & Extension      4,720       830     5,550       540       95       635
Processing Plants        35,770    9,930    45,700    4,085    1,135    5,220
Sub-Total               40,990   10,760    51,250    4,625    1,230    5,855
NSC Vegetable Seed Unit      3,035    2,800      5,835       345       320      655
Bulk & Transit Storage      20,005    3,500    23,505    2,285         400    2,685
Training & Technical
Assistance                   915    1,700      2,615       105       195      300
Incremental Working
Capital                   33,500       -      33,500    3,830        -      3,830
Reserve Stocks              39,335       -      39,335    4,495         -     4,495
Total Before
Contingencies            303,305   79,350   382,855   34,715    9,035   43,750
Contingencies:
- Physical                15,545    4,500    20,045    1,780        515    2,295
- Price                   43,350   12,750    58,100    5,105    1,550    6,655
Sub-Total               60,895   17,250    78,145    6,885    2,065    8,950
Total Project Cost /a      364,200   96,800   461,000   41,600   11,100   52,700
/a   Excluding small tractors reserved for local procurement (R 4.1 M) but
including duties and taxes (R 23.5 M).



- 14 -
D. Proposed Financing
4.38      The project financing plan would be:
----------------- Thousand US dollars-----------------
Project
State   ARDC/  Partici-                        %
GOI    Govts.  banks   pants 1/   Bank    Total   Bank
Processing Facilities
SSC                         1,640   1,910   1,520    1,910   11,230        18,210    62
NSC                           -       -         40       260       590        890    65
Sub-total               1,640   1,910   1,560    2,170   11,820         19,100    62
Large Farm Development
Institutional farms         1,220     -        620       120    2,950       4,910    60
Canal remodelling             -     1,090      -         -      1,630       2,720    60
Sub-total               1,220   1,090       620       120    4,580       7,630    60
Agricultural Universities
Equipment & Facilities       1,690     -        -         -      2,720       4,410    62
Seed technology
research operations           280     -        -         -        -           280      -
Sub-total               1,970      -        -        -       2,720       4,690    58
Quality Control
Equipment & Facilities        400     -        -         -        640       1,040    62
SCA operating deficits         60     -        -         -        -            60      -
Sub-total                 460      -        -        -         640       1,100    58
Private Sector Processors       -        -     1,840    2,050    2,950         6,840    43
Bulk & Transit Storage          970      -       330       -       1,950      3,250    60
Training & Technical
Assistance                    -        -       -         -         340         340   100
Incremental SSC/PSP
Working Capital             1,020   1,160      -       2,260      -         4,440      -
Reserve Stocks                5,310       -       -         -         -       5,310      -
Total (US$ Thousands)        12,590   4,160    4,350   6,600   25,000 2/  52,700    47.5
Percent of Total                 24        8         8      12.5       47.5      100
1/   Seed growers, NSC, private sector processors, Haryana Land Development
Corporation.
2/   50% of project cost, excluding duties and taxes.



- 15 -
4.39      The proposed Bank loan of US$25.0 M, covering 50% of project cost,
excluding duties & taxes, would be to GOI. It would have a maturity of 20
years, including 5 years of grace. It would cover all foreign exchange costs
(US$11.1 M) and about 34% of local costs. Bank funds for research and breeder
seed production by Agricultural Universities, farm development by Agricul-
tural Universities quality control, training and technical assistance, and
canal remodelling would be channelled by GOI through ICAR, State Governments,
CSCB, NSC and GOH respectively, (US$6.85 M). All other Bank funds (US$18.15 M)
would be channelled by GOI through ARDC and participating commercial banks to
institutional borrowers. Details of the proposed financing plan and flow
of funds are at Annex 7. The financing plan was agreed with GOI, State Govern-
ments and ARDC during negotiations.
4.40      GOI's contribution (US$12.6 M) would finance about 24% of project
costs. It would cover GOI contributions to (i) SSC share capital (through
NSC), (ii) SFCI and CWC equity to borrow from banks for farm development and
seed stores, (iii) ICAR for breeder and foundation seed units and seed tech-
nology research, (iv) CSCB for quality control investments, (v) GOH for canal
remodelling, and (vi) NSC for maintenance of reserve stocks (vii) Agricul-
tural Universities for land development. State Government contributions
(US$4.2 M) would finance 8% of project costs and cover their contribution
to SSC share capital and for canal remodelling. Participant contributions
(US$6.6 M) would finance about 12.5% of project costs as equity for process-
ing plants, farm development and working capital. ARDC and commercial banks
would finance the remaining 8% of project costs (US$4.3 M) as loans to par-
ticipating institutions. In addition, the banks would finance the seasonal
working capital needs of the SSC, NSC, and private sector processors under
their normal operations.
E. Procurement
4.41      Procurement would be coordinated by the Project Monitoring and
Management Committee (para 5.03). Major items of seed processing and labor-
atory equipment and farm machinery 1/ (US$15.1 M) would be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guide-
lines. Because of the many, widely dispersed institutions involved it would
not be practicable to bulk the procurement of all the above. Contracts for
minor items of equipment, not exceeding US$50,000 each would therefore be
let after competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local
procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Urgent purchase of minor
equipment, by prudent shopping, to a total value of US$1.0 M, would also be
accepted and, to speed implementation, it is proposed that equipment appro-
priately procured after November 1, 1975, to a value of US$0.5 M, be eligible
for retroactive financing.
1/   GOI has decided to reserve procurement on tractors of domestic
manufacture - below 65 HP. These have been excluded from project
costs in the determination of the loan amount.



- 16-
4.42      Procurement for the private sector (US$3.4 M) would be left to
customer choice. Individual purchases would be too small, varied and wide-
spread to permit bulking for competitive bidding. The equipment required
is widely available and competitively priced. Items to be imported would,
if necessary, be procured with NSC assistance.
4.43      Bulking would not be practicable for civil works, buildings and
furnishings (US$16.5 M), since individual items are small and scattered
over a wide area. Contracts would be let after competitive bidding adver-
tised locally. An exception would be canal remodelling in Haryana which would
be carried out by force account (US$2.4 M). The work would be frequently
interrupted and delayed to minimize disruption of water supplies and would
therefore not attract contractors. Vehicles (US$1.1 M) would also be procured
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally since only a few would
be purchased spread over the project period. Motorcycles (US$0.5 M) would be
owned by staff, not as institutional fleets, and would be purchased according
to their preference direct from dealers. Employment of consultants and
overseas training (US$0.3 M) would be on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. The balance of project costs (US$10.4 M) would consist of
reserve stocks, permanent working capital and operating costs not involving
procurement.
4.44      Assurances were obtained that for contracts in excess of US$200,000
draft tender documents and bid evaluations would be submitted for Bank review
before being acted upon.
F. Disbursements
4.45      Disbursements under the loan would extend over five years for:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures for imported seed processing
and laboratory equipment and farm machinery;
(b)  100% of ex-factory cost for locally procured equipment and
vehicles;
(c)  60% of expenditures for civil works and related engineering;
(d)  100% of costs of overseas training and technical assistance; and
(e)  70% of ARDC refinancing of commercial bank loans to private
sector processors.
Disbursements against a,b,c and d would be fully documented, disbursements
against e would be made against certified statements of expenditure the docu-
mentation for which would be retained by ARDC and available for inspection
during project supervision. A schedule of estimated disbursements is at
Annex 8.



- 17 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Institutions
5.01      Institutional change would be a key feature of the National Seed
Program. NSC would divest itself of production and processing to concentrate
on marketing and service functions. SSCA would be established to take over
quality control from NSC. Agricultural Universities would be closely integra-
ted into the program to improve breeder and foundation seed quality. Project
institutions are discussed in detail in Annex 9.
National Seed Development Council
5.02      At a time of institutional change and rapid expansion in the seed
industry, continuing policy guidance would be essential to GOI and State
Governments. This would be provided by the National Seed Development (NSDC),
already established by GOI.
Project Management and Monitoring Committee
5.03      Implementation of this multi-faceted project would require con-
siderable coordination. A Project Management and Monitoring Committee (PMMC)
would be created for this purpose chaired by the GOI, Secretary for Agricul-
ture. PMMC would monitor and coordinate project activity, including procure-
ment, and would report progress to Government and the Bank. GOI has estab-
lished the PMMC, with composition and powers satisfactory to the Bank.
National Seeds Corporation
5.04      NSC is presently the backbone of the Indian seed industry and would
continue to play a pivotal role in the development of the National Seed Pro-
gram. Particularly important functions would be:
(a) equity participation in SSC and active guidance and
assistance in their development;
(b)  interstate marketing and demand estimation;
(c)  coordination of foundation seed production;
(d)  provision of technical services to the seed industry; and
(e)  operation of a reserve stock scheme.
NSC/SSC relationships would be embodied in agreements satisfactory to the Bank.
An important element of NSC's equity contributions to SSC would be the transfer
of suitable existing NSC processing plants.  It would be a condition of Loan
effectiveness that arrangements satisfactory to the Bank had been arrived
at regarding plant transfers.



- 18 -
State Seed Corporations (SSC)
5.05      SSC would be established under the Companies Act, 1956 with articles
of association, and according to an NSC/SSC agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank. Assurances were obtained that the articles and agreements would not be
changed without consultation with the Bank. SSC capital - of which 75% would
be in equity and 25% in preference shares - would be subscribed by State
Governments, NSC and seed growers in the proportion 35:30:35. Preference
shares would be held equally by State Governments and NSC and carry cumula-
tive rights to an 11% dividend. At least 20% of State Governments equity
shares would be held by Agricultural Universities. The purchase for cash by
the States and NSC of equity shares worth Rs 500,000 each of SSC would be a
condition of Loan Effectiveness.
5.06      Each SSC would be managed by an 11-member Board (except in Maharash-
tra where, because of the participation of three Universities, membership
would be 15). It would include NSC (2), participating bank (1), State Govern-
ment (4), and seed growers (4). The Board would be chaired by the Agricultural
Production Commissioner/Secretary of Agriculture or the Vice Chancellor of
the Agricultural University. The Managing Director, responsible for day-to-
day operations, would be appointed by the State Government, on the recommen-
dation of the Board and with GOI concurrence.
5.07      SSC would be organized in four divisions under the Managing
Director:
Production    -    seed production, grower relations and
field quality control (see below);
Processing    -    processing and storage;
Marketing     -    intrastate marketing and demand assessment,
liaison with NSC on interstate sales, and
overall responsibility for quality control
using Production Division staff for field
inspections; and
Accounting    -    finance, accounting and audit.
Finance
5.08      SSC would be run on commercial lines in accordance with financial
policies satisfactory to the Bank (Annex 9). These would be agreed during
negotiations. To operate efficiently they must have good staff, which would
require attractive personnel policies. Recruitment for non-clerical grades
would be based on India-wide selection. Salaries would be based on NSC scales
for similar positions, which are satisfactory. Continuity in the post of
Managing Director would be important in the formative years of the SSC.
Managing Directors would therefore not normally be changed in less than two
years. Deputations from NSC or Government institutions would be limited to
one term of one year, after which staff would join the permanent SSC cadre



- 19 -
or return to their original posts. SSC would carry out annual performance
reviews for all staff and salary administration would be flexible to reward
good performance. Suitable clauses were introduced in the NSC/SSC agree-
ments to cover the foregoing financial and personnel issues.
Project Implementation
5.09      A detailed schedule to reach Loan effectiveness is at Chart IV,
Annex 9. This is being followed by Governments and NSC. A full project
implementation schedule, agreed during negotiations, is at Chart V, Annex 8.
Detailed schedules would be prepared for each project component as a part of
financing proposals to commercial banks.
B. Credit
Medium Term Credit
5.10      Project participants requiring medium-term credit would be:
NSC; SSC; Central Warehousing Corporation (CWC); Universities, SFCI and
Haryana Land Development Corporation (for large farm development); and
private sector seed companies.
5.11      Participating commercial banks would be selected by the ARDC, in
consultation with borrowers. It would be a condition of Loan Effectiveness
that lending arrangments between GOI/ARDC and ARDC/commercial banks, satis-
factory to the Bank 1/ had been completed. Proposals for processing plants,
farm development and seed stores would be subject to participating bank/ARDC
appraisal. Large farm development proposals would be based on detailed farm
plans satisfactory to the Bank. Proposals for seed stores would be prepared
or checked by the CWC. Private seed companies would apply for loans to the
bank of their choice from a shortlist established by ARDC. NSC's engineering
services would be available to provide technical guidance. All proposals
would be subject to NSC technical scrutiny. At negotiations, ARDC agreed to
complete lending arrangements for SSC by 1 August 1976 and for all other
project borrowers, except private sector processors, by 31 December 1976.
5.12      Proposed lending terms and conditions are detailed at Annex 10.
Minimum interest rates would be:  sub-borrowers 11%, commercial banks 8%,
ARDC 7%. These are in line with current rates in the agricultural sector.
The margins are reasonable in relation to the risks involved and the need
for appraisal and supervision of individual loans.
5.13      Loans to seed growers for farm development would be eligible for
refinancing under ongoing credit projects 2/ and are not included in project
costs.
1/ As defined in the agreed minutes of negotiations.
2/ ARDC Project, Credit 540-IN.



- 20 -
Short-Term Credit
5.14      Seed processors would need large amounts of working capital, mainly
to finance inventory. About 25% would be financed from equity, the balance
would be obtained from banks under their normal commercial operations. It
would be vital that processors always had access to adequate credit for
inventory financing. Assurances were obtained from ARDC that it would
periodically review with SSC and participating banks the availability of
working capital to ensure (i) adequate financing of the seasonal working
capital needs of the NSC, SSC and private sector, to maintan seed inventory;
and (ii) that similar terms and conditions would apply to the working capital
borrowings of all processors. The Project Monitoring and Management Com-
mittee (para 5.03) would advise GOI regarding any difficulties faced by seed
processors in securing adequate working capital.
5.15      Crop credit is channelled mainly through the cooperative banking
system. Seed growers would need additional credit to finance the incremental
costs of seed production. Present credit limits relate to commercial crops.
Assurances were given by State Governments that crop credit limits would be
reviewed with SSC and adjusted as necessary for seed production. To provide
a short term credit source to creditworthy growers who do not have access to
cooperatives, an assurance would be sought from banks (through the ARDC/bank
agreements) that they would endeavor to meet the short term credit needs of
SSC growers.  In such cases SSC would provide a loan collection service to
banks, from. seed crop proceeds, thus minimizing risk.
C. Accounting and Audit
5.16      SSC would establish accounting, audit and stores procedures in
accordance with commercial practice. Cost accounting would guide operational
efficiencies. Internal auditing would be initiated in the third year of oper-
ation. SSC accounts would be audited by commercial auditors. SSC account-
ing practices would accord with provisions in the SSC Articles satisfactory
to the Bank. NSC, ARDC, SFCI and CWC accounts are audited by the Auditor
General of India in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. All institutions using
project funds would maintain separate project accounts and annual audited
accouts which would be available to the Bank during project supervision.
VI. MARKETING
A. Demand
6.01      Seed demand data are inadequate.  In the recent past demand ex-
ceeded supply, but by how much and at what rate it is growing are conjec-
tural. Bank demand estimates are at Annex 11. Under any reasonable set of



- 21 -
assumptions the project would not cause supply to exceed demand. However
for future development - appraisal of a second phase project is scheduled for
the second half of 1976 - better demand data are essential and a demand survey
has been initiated. Results are expected to be available by July, 1976.
Terms of reference for the survey are at Annex 11.
6.02      NSC would be responsible for making demand projections on which to
base production programs. For interstate marketing these would be based on
feedback from NSC's regional offices and dealership system. For intrastate
trade they would be based on SSC information similarly obtained. It is also
proposed that the initial demand survey (para 6.01) be updated biennially
with assistance from marketing consultants. An assurance to this effect
was given by GOI.
B. Pricing
6.03      The overriding criterion in price setting would be SSC financial
viability. Prices would normally be set on the basis of costs plus reasonable
profit margins. However movement and trading of rice and wheat grain are con-
trolled, resulting in price distortions. Grain surplus area prices are low,
deficit area prices are high. Seed would be produced in surplus areas - which
would have a comparative advantage for producing the crop. It would be sold
on a dual price basis. Interstate sales to grain deficit areas would be at
prices sufficient to prevent seed being eaten; these would be set by NSC.
Seed would not sell in desired quantities in producing areas, at deficit area
prices, because the seed:grain price ratio would be prohibitive. Seed prices
would therefore be set lower in producing areas. SSC would set these prices
since they would relate to intrastate sales; levels would be governed by
two factors. First, maintaining SSC financial viability as discussed in para
7.04; second, to ensure equity of seed buyer treatment the seed:grain price
ratio in producing areas would not be less than in deficit areas. Pricing
policy would be embodied in NSC/SSC agreements, which would be satisfactory
to the Bank.
6.04      The major component of the retail seed price is the cost of raw
seed. This is too high; farmers are paid excessive incentives for seed
production. Over the project period raw seed procurement prices would be
reduced, leading to reduced retail prices. Target procurement prices are
at Annex 12. NSC and SSC would operate on a service charge basis thus the
cost of processing and handling would be minimized.
C. Distribution
6.05      Dealership systems would be established aiming eventually at four
dealers per Development Block, 20,000 on an all-India basis - about one
per 25 villages. The cooperative system would provide the bulk of dealers



- 22 -
in conformity with GOI policy. This is logical since cooperatives are the
major distributors of complementary inputs such as fertilizers and insect-
icides. However NSC and SSC must be free to appoint dealers on the basis
of efficiency and assurances to this effect were given by GOI and State
Governments. Storage plans (para 4.20) would also help timely and efficient
distribution.
D. Promotion
6.06      In the past NSC's marketing effort has focused mainly on distrib-
ution. In future, as seed supply approaches demand, and to make the value
of better seed more widely known, more aggressive sales promotion would be
necessary. NSC's marketing organization would be restructured to include,
inter alia,a market development section. This would plan promotion, undertake
national campaigns through the mass media, and develop advertising materials.
It would support both NSC regional offices, which would conduct local pro-
motion efforts, and SSC with their responsibility for intrastate sales.
Details on marketing proposals are at Annex 11.
VII. OPERATING RESULTS AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Operating Results
7.01      Financial return calculations and cash flows are at Annex 12.
7.02      Seed Growers.  Comparisons of the costs of commercial and seed crop
production shows that the lower seed premiums which would be offered to
growers under the project would be sufficiently attractive.
7.03      Large Farms.  The financial return to investment in large farm
development is estimated to be 22% on the basis of a model of the SFCI Hissar
Farm. This assumes certified seed production. The cash flow indicates that
the farms could service necessary borrowings on a 1:1 debt:equity ratio.
Despite the modest return and debt service capacity inclusion of these farms
in the project is justified to provide a safety margin of controllable
production capacity. Tarai experience indicates this to be necessary since
shareholder growers do not always take up production of particular varieties
at the rate desired.
7.04      SSC.  The estimated financial return to fixed investment in SSC
development is 30% after tax (50% before tax) based on the Andhra Pradesh SSC
model. Projected seed prices are 20-30% lower than those now prevailing and
demonstrate the scope for lowering prices to increase seed consumption. Other
SSC would have similar cash flows and give comparable results. SSC would sub-
mit detailed cash flows to participating commercial banks/ARDC prior to



- 23 -
obtaining loans, and these would be available to the Bank. SSC articles, which
would be subject to Bank approval, would include suitable clauses to ensure
adequacy of financial reserves held by the SSC. Appropriate reserves are
discussed in Annex 12. The major uncertainty facing the SSC is sales volume,
governed by demand price interaction. However, variable costs constitute such
a large proportion of sales price (82%) that financial return is relatively
insensitive to volume. The Andhra Pradesh SSC cash flow shows that SSC would
be able to service debts at commercial interest rates and terms, pay 11%
dividend on preferred shares and from year 2, pay a 1% bonus to seed growers,
equivalent to a 10% dividend on share capital. In addition, from year >
onwards, SSC would provide about Rs 100,000 annually to a Research Fund to
support problem specific seed technology research.
7.05      NSC.  Assessing the likely viability of NSC in its new role is
difficult. There are two chief dangers. The first is that NSC would be
left with too large a staff as its responsibilities changed. Every effort
would be made to place staff in the emergent institutions but there would be
no guarantee. The second is that NSC, which has been accused of profiteering
in the past, would now charge too little to cover its service operations.
This is more amenable to solution but would demand accurate cost accounting to
allay client suspicions (mainly SSC).
7.06      NSC's present cash flow projections assume continued staffing at
present levels and a buildup of National Seed Program output to about
300,000 m tons by 1980/81. On this basis NSC could cover its interstate
marketing operations with a 5% service charge. Demand estimation for this
service is difficult (para 6.01). However assuming a minimum seed output by
1980/81 of about 220,000 m ton, an initial service charge on interstate
sales of about 7%, reducing to 5% as output increases, would be necessary to
cover NSC marketing costs. This would be reasonable compared to the present
marketing cost of about 11% on much lower turnover. NSC's vegetable seed unit
would be a financially viable operation with a financial rate of return
exceeding 50%. NSC's other activities would also operate profitably.
7.07      The viability of NSC is critical to project success.  An assurance
was given by GOI that the charges for each NSC service would be regularly
reviewed with the Bank and adjusted as necessary to cover operating cost.
B. Economic Justification
7.08      Project economic benefits - excluding large farm development,
treated separately below - would stem from the incremental production due
to the use of improved seed. Projected annual incremental cereal production
at full development (year 9) would be: wheat 200,000 m ton, paddy 170,000 m
ton, maize 95,000 m ton, sorghum 200,000 m ton and pearl millet 250,000 m ton.
Total value would be R 1270 M (US$145 M) per year. There are no data by which
to estimate the yield impact of vegetable and potato seed. However, these
are financially attractive to produce. This, and the dietary importance of
these crops, implies their production to be economically justified.



- 24 -
7.09      The assumptions for computing the economic rate of return are in
Annex 12. Incremental grain production resulting from project seed use is
estimated in two ways. For self-pollinated crops, it is conservatively
assumed that the project certified seed would service areas already under HYV,
but seeded to commercial grain. Yield impact on the area served directly by
project seed is assumed to decline over four years averaging 150 kg/ha/year
and 120 kg/ha/year for wheat and paddy respectively.  The only additional
cost associated with the use of improved seed would be for harvesting.
Benefits from farmer to farmer exchange of subsequent generations produced
from project seed, are not quantified, though they would be significant. For
hybrid seed, which has to be replaced annually, it is assumed that all pro-
ject seed would expand the HYV area. A yield increase of 500-900 kg/ha
would be achieved by the shift from traditional (low technology) to new
(high technology) farming. The latter is based on a package of inputs of
which seed is but one. It is impossible to determine empirically the pro-
portion of yield increment due to each element of the input package. The
assumption used here, that 25% of the yield impact is due to seed, is
believed conservative. Fertilizer and pesticides which, with seed, form
the input package are costed at market prices, which are close to equiv-
alent international price.
7.10      Projected 1980 farmgate prices have been used to value incremental
grain production due to project hybrid seed. Wheat and paddy are subject
to interstate movement restriction and hence domestic prices are distorted.
They are therefore valued at projected international CIF prices. Since most of
the cotton seed would be used in the Integrated Cotton Development Project
(Credit 610-IN), its value has been taken as the economic input price assumed
in the economic analysis for ICDP - which has an estimated economic rate of
over 100%.
7.11      Benefits from the reserve stock scheme have not been separately
quantified. However assuming that reserve stocks would be used every second
year, because of a national or regional calamity, the scheme would be justi-
fied. Reserve stocks would be used to sow areas which would otherwise be
unsown, sown late or, at best, be sown with inferior material. Benefits
would therefore be greater than for normal seed and at least sufficient to
offset the 50% increase in investment costs (operating costs would be about
the same).
7.12      Incremental farm labor, used mainly at peak activity times, is
included at market price, as is skilled and semi-skilled labor for processing
plants.
7.13      Based on the above assumptions, the estimated economic rate of
return is 65%; it remains satisfactory when various alternative assumptions
are tested. It is relatively insensitive to the level of investment costs,
dropping to 55% when investment costs are increased 25%. When operating
costs are increased by 25% it falls to 58% and if benefits are reduced by 25%
it falls to 45%. The project is thus economically justified under any real-
istic set of assumptions. Details of the economic analysis are at Annex 12.



- 25 -
7.14      Large farm development, though beneficial, is not critical to
project success and has, therefore, been evaluated separately. The economic
rate of return, using the assumptions described above, is 17%.  Details are
at Annex 12.
7.15      The area benefiting from project cereal seed, would be 6.2 M ha.  The
seed would be used nationwide and it is estimated that about 3 million farmers
would benefit. Since small farmers suffer most from supply constraints and
high prices, with improved seed supplies and reduced prices under the project
small farmers would benefit substantially from the project. About 14,000
manyears of seasonal employment would be created for harvesting and the SSC
and SSCA to be created would provide direct employment to about 800 people.
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following major
points:
(a) ICAR would coordinate breeder seed production and determine
the investment needs of producing institutions, designating
a senior official to be responsible for these tasks (4.05);
(b) private sector seed companies would be treated equally with
the public sector on the issues detailed in para 4.25 (GOI
and State Governments);
(c) seed inspection would be intensified to cover annually at
least 50% of dealerships handling certified or truthfully
labelled seed (4.30) (State Governments);
(d) in cotton seed producing areas one-variety communities and
gins, satisfactory to the Bank, would be notified and enforced
(4.31) (GOH, GOM, GOP);
(e) Agricultural Universities would support the establishment of an
interdisciplinary program among departments for applied seed
technology research (4.34) (State Governments);
(f) consultants would be employed in consultation with, and on
terms and conditions acceptable to, the Bank (4.36) (GOI);
(g) SSC would adopt financial and personnel policies as outlined
in para 5.08 (State Governments); and
(h) NSC would conduct biennial seed demand surveys (6.02) (GOI);
8.02      Agreement was also reached on the following conditions of Loan
Effectiveness:



- 26 -
(a) NSC and SSC had made arrangements for processing plant trans-
fers satisfactory to the Bank (5.04) (GOI and State Governments);
and
(b) State Governments and NSC has purchased for cash, equity shares
worth Rs 500,000 each of SSC (5.05) (GOI and State Governments);
(c) agreements between GOI and ARDC, and lending arrangements
between the ARDC and commercial banks, satisfactory to
the Bank, had been completed (5.11) (GOI).
8.03      The following conditions of disbursement were agreed:
(a) against any project cost for a State, until that State has
established its SSC with Articles of Association satis-
factory to the Bank, and caused its SSC to sign an
agreement with NSC satisfactory to the Bank (5.05);
(b) against the cost of large farm development, that farm plans
satisfactory to the Bank had been prepared (4.09, 4.12);
(c) against any project cost in Andhra Pradesh and Punjab
that sufficient land satisfactory to the Bank had been
transferred to the Agricultural Universities (4.11);
(d) against processing plant costs, that the design of each cotton
plant and of the 5,000 and 10,000 ton cereal plant modules had
been approved by the Bank (4.18); and
(e) against project costs for private sector seed companies, that
their proposals had been subject to the technical scrutiny of
NSC (4.24).
8.04      It is recommended that up to US$0.5 M be made available for retro-
active financing of expenditures, after November 1, 1975, on appropriately
procured equipment and civil works (4.41).
8.05      With these conditions and assurances the project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$25.0 M, with a maturity of 20 years including 5 years of
grace. The borrower would be GOI.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Plant Breeding, Breeder and Foundation Seed Production
and Seed Technology Research
I. Plant Breeding
Introduction
1.        Plant breeding research in India is conducted at 11 Indian Council
for Agricultural Research (ICAR) Institutes (Table 1) and 25 Agricultural
Universities (Table 2). Most of it is financed from ICAR sources supplemen-
ted in the case of the Universities by State funds. Support for cotton re-
search will be provided under the Integrated Cotton Development Project to
be part-financed by IDA.
2.        To coordinate breeding research among various institutions, 23
All-India Coordinated Research Projects concerned with food, commercial
and horticultural crops 1/ have been established under the aegis of ICAR.
These projects include supervision of uniform varietal nursery trials of
elite strains on a national or regional basis, dissemination of research
results, and the release of improved "All-India" varieties, local varie-
ties are released by the State Agricultural Universities.
3.        Recently, the International Crop Research Institute for the
Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) was established at Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh.
ICRISAT will serve as a world center for improving genetic potential of
pearl millet, sorghum, pigeon pea and chick-pea and its materials will
be available to Indian breeders.
4.        Major contributions to the production of food and fiber in India
have been made since the early sixties through the introduction, develop-
ment, and release of high-yielding varieties of wheat and rice and of
hybrids of maize, pearl millet, sorghum and cotton (HYV). The widespread
adoption of HYV has served as a catalyst to improve other practices,
particularly fertilizer use, irrigation, and plant protection.
5.        The available HYV of the major crops are a satisfactory base on
which to develop the seed industry. However, recent variety releases have
1/   Rice, wheat, barley, maize, sorghum, millets, pulses, forage crops,
sugarcane, sugarbeet, cotton, jute, oilseeds, soybeans, tobacco,
fruits, tuber crops, potato, vegetables, medicinal and aromatic plants,
floriculture, spices and cashewnut, coconut and arecanut.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
for the most part lacked the impact of those of the sixties. A successful
National Seed Project (NSP) would depend on an expanding cultivator interest
in improved seed. This will require, inter alia, a continuing flow of im-
proved varieties which can only come from aggressive and productive breeding
programs in all major crops.
Plant Breeding in NSP States 1/
6.        The Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has one of the strongest
plant breeding departments in India. It has active breeding programs on
many crops, with particular strength in wheat, pearl millet, pulses and
oilseeds. Important variety releases include C306, Kalyansona 221, and
PV18 wheats; hybrid pearl millets PHB-1, PHB-10, and PHB-14; C104 gram;
ML-1 mung; and E-27 and J-35 cottons. Research on wheat is conducted at
Ludhiana; rice at Kapurthala; and cotton at Ludhiana, Faridkot and Abohar.
7.        Plant breeding research in Haryana is conducted at the Haryana
Agricultural University (HAU) and its branch stations. Major contribu-
tions have been C214 and C130 gram varietries, Versha mung, C304 hooka
tobacco and Parkash mustard. A new wheat variety, WH147, was released in
1975 as a potential replacement for the Kalyansona variety. In addition,
breeding research is being conducted on pearl millet, cotton, oilseeds,
pulses, forages and other crops.
8.        The Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University (APAU) conducts breeding
research on rice, sorghum, maize, pearl and other millets, pulses, oil-
seeds and other minor crops. Efforts are augmented by presence on the campus
of the All-India Coordinated Rice Improvement Project (AICSIP) and the All-
India Coordinated Sorghum Improvement Project (AICSIP). AICRIP maintains the
largest sorghum germ plasm collection in the world (over 16,000 accessions).
9.        Variety releases from APAU include Mashuri and Hamsa rice, Mahalaxmi
cotton, Godavari finger millet, Vijay pearl millet composite, Kadiri 741
groundnut, Madhira mung, and others. Rice varieties released from AICRIP
include Jaya, Sona, and a new slender-grain variety RP-14. Extensive research
is in progress at AICRIP on brown plant hopper and gallmidge resistance in
rice. AICRIP is currently producing breeder seed of All-India rice varieties
for NSC's foundation seed program.
10.       In Maharashtra, three of the State's four Agricultural Univer-
sities would participate in the National Seeds Project: Akola, Parbhani
and Rahuri. Their breeding programs are strongest in cotton, sorghum, and
pigeon pea. The hybrid cotton breeding is innovative and may lead to a
potential for hybrid cottonseed export. The cotton research will be further
developed through the Integrated Cotton Development Project. Two sorghum
1/   Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
hybrids, CH57 and CH58 have been approved by the ICAR workshop for release
in 1975-76.
Recommendations
11.       Further progress in Indian agriculture will greatly depend on
a continuing supply of HYV. So will the viability of the seed industry.
Despite the large resources employed, plant breeding output has not main-
tained the momentum of the sixties. Improved performance calls mainly
for a better directed effort and better use of, rather than great increase
of, resources. For this reason, the project would not include investment
proposals in plant breeding research.
12.       ICAR should, to a greater extent than at present, relate the
allocation of resources for breeding programs to their performance. The
National Seed Corporation (NSC) with its access to national market data,
would be able to identify those varieties having real value as measured
in the market place. In addition to normal promotional work NSC would
publicize the successes of breeders/breeding institutions in order to
spur further efforts.
II. Breeder Seed Production I/ 2/
Present Situation
12.       There has been inadequate recognition of the fact that plant
breeding per se is pointless. To be productive it must fuel a seed
multiplication chain. Breeder and foundation generations, for which
the research establishment must have prime responsibility, are critical
links in his chain. They have been neglected. Production of high-quality
certified seed has often been limited by insufficient or poor quality of
breeder and foundation seed. Inferior quality in the early generations
also adds to the cost of production through increased roguing and lower
yields - hence price - of certified seed. Generally plant breeders were
not given adequate resources for breeder seed production. Most so-called
breeder seed was not produced by the original breeder or research station;
it was produced elsewhere without checks to ensure trueness to type and
was breeder seed in name only. This practice can lead to the loss of
varietal identity and should be stopped. To overcome the constraints
1/   Breeder seed is the original and recurring stock of seed or vegeta-
tively propagating material produced and controlled by the breeder
(or his successors) that developed the variety. Breeder seed pro-
vides the source for the production of foundation seed.
2/   Improvements to cotton breeder seed production will be funded under
the Integrated Cotton Development Project and are not discussed here.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
requires additional resources for production, and centralized coordina-
tion, to match the geographically wide demand for breeder seed of each
variety with the (normally) single source. The very limited quantity
of breeder seed purchased by NSC in 1975-76 from only 8 institutions
is shown in Table 3.
Project Proposals
14.       Organization of Breeder Seed Production.  The breeder who evolved
the variety, or his successor, should be responsible for variety maintenance
and production of breeder seed. Exceptions should be made only where demand
outstrips the breeder's productive capacity, or where a variety is imported
from outside India and then with arrangements to ensure trueness to type.
Coordination of the production of breeder seed, of varieties released by the
All-India Coordinated Crop Improvement Committees, would be the responsibility
of ICAR working from demand projections for foundation seed formulated by
NSC. ICAR would designate a senior official, to be solely responsible for
this task. Breeder seed of local varieties would be produced by the Agri-
cultural Universities on demand from the State Seed Corporations and private
growers. Institutions receiving project support for breeder seed production
would establish units equipped and staffed to specialize in the production
and processing of breeder seed 1/. Greater skills and resources would thus
be employed, and the breeder would be relieved of many non-scientific tasks
(which he did at best perfunctorily). However, the breeder would remain
solely responsible for breeder seed quality.
15.       Procedures for Breeder Seed Production.  For self-pollinated crops
at least 500, and preferably 1,500 to 2,000, progeny rows would be grown.
Progeny rows containing off-types would be removed before harvest; present
practice is more lax and seed of off-types is inadvertently mixed with good
seed. The use of threshing floors is now a common cause of variety mixing.
This would be eliminated by progeny row threshing in the field, using a
small, mobile (Vogel-type) thresher, with bagging and labeling direct from
the thresher..
16.       If the breeder seed from the progeny rows were insufficient, a
further increase, not to exceed one generation, would be made by bulk
planting progeny seed and vigorously roguing out off-type plants. The seed
thus harvested would still be breeder seed since its production would have
been monitored by the responsible plant breeder.
17.       In hybrids the inbreds would be maintained by selfing or sib-
pollination, except for the male-sterile A-lines which would be maintained
by pollinating from a fertile counterpart.
18.       Breeder seed of composites of maize, sorghum, or millet would
be produced with full sib-pollination, or by open-pollination in isolation.
Recognizable off-types and diseased plants would be rogued out before pollen
1/   At institutions producing both breeder and foundation seed the same
unit would be responsible for both.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
shedding; however, care would be taken to avoid mass selection for specific
characteristics since this practice may lead to a genetic shift in the popu-
lation. Genetic shift may also result from growing breeder seed in different
environments. The latter would be partially avoided by producing and storing
a quantity of the original composite in a refrigerated area and utilizing it
at regular intervals to start a new breeder seed increase.
19.       Breeder seed production in potatoes would involve checking indivi-
dual tubers and their progenies for freedom from viruses. The breeder seed
stocks would then be increased in the field during the season when aphid
populations were lowest. Potato researchers have developed a satisfactory
technique.
20.       Quality control I/ of breeder seed would be monitored by a commit-
tee comprising representatives of NSC, ICAR, the State Certification Agency
and the breeder. Samples from every lot of breeder seed would be subject to
grow-out tests by the producing institution. In addition to being a quality
control aid, these tests would spotlight seed lots liable to give trouble at
the foundation seed stage.
21.       Demand projections would stem directly from the certified seed pro-
grams determined by NSC and State Seed Corporations (SSC). Because of the
long lead times involved prediction inaccuracies would be large. In addition
demand/supply imbalances could occur because of poor harvest or quality con-
trol failure. To safeguard against risks controlled environment storage
would be provided for a carry-over stock of about 50% of annual needs. In
assessing breeder seed demand the private sector would be fully catered for.
22.       Project Investments.  The project would support breeder seed pro-
grams in 20 institutions at 25 locations (Table 4). These include 6 ICAR
Institutes (7 locations), 6 Agricultural Universities (10 locations) in
States in the first phase of the NSP, and 8 Agricultural Universities (8 lo-
cations) to be included in later phases. Details of project support for
breeder seed production are given in Table 5.  The investments, estimated
to cost Rs 15 M (US$1.7 M) would provide:
(a) special farm equipment including seed drills, Vogel-type
threshers, plant or ear threshers, spraying and dusting
equipment;
(b) small-scale seed processing equipment;
(c) processing and storage buildings (Figures 1 and 2);
and
(d) special equipment for potatoes at Jullunder.
Investment proposals would be subject to change within general guidelines as
the project progresses. ICAR would determine the needs of each institution
1/   See also Annex 5.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
relative to the expansion of breeder seed demand. No institution would
receive support until it was required to produce breeder seed for the
NSP.
23.       Funds for the breeder seed program would be provided by GOI as
grants to ICAR and thence as grants to participating Universities and
Research Stations. Because of the lead time required for the expansion
of breeder seed production, retroactive financing would be provided for
priority items of equipment purchased before credit signing.
III. Foundation Seed Production 1/ 2/
Present Situation
24.       Currently foundation seed is produced almost exclusively by
NSC using breeder seed purchased from ICAR Institutes or the Agricul-
tural Universities. However, the supply of high-quality foundation
seed has been insufficient due to inadequate quality and quantities
of breeder seed and inadequate quality control of the foundation seed.
The small quantities of foundation seed produced under contract by
private farmers were not always of acceptable quality.
25.       Large amounts of seed, purported to be foundation seed, have also
been grown at the Agricultural Universities. However, most of this seed was
distributed to farmers in "minikits", or supplied to Agricultural Departments,
who in turn distributed it to cultivators. Little was used to produce certi-
fied seed.
Project Proposals
26.       Organization for Production of Foundation Seed.  Under the
project, demand estimation and coordination of foundation seed production
of All-India varieties would be the responsibility of NSC. Estimates of
foundation seed requirements of local varieties would be developed by
the respective SSC. In both cases the demand from private sector pro-
ducers would be fully catered for. In the event of overall shortage the
private sector would be treated on par with other users.
27.       Under the NSP the Universities would have first responsibility
for foundation seed production. It is a key element of NSP policy that
1/   Foundation seed is produced from breeder seed and provides the source
for production of certified seed. Foundation seed may be increased
in one stage, or more than one stage, if purity is maintained.
2/   Improvements to cotton foundation seed production will be funded
under the Integrated Cotton Development Project and are not dis-
cussed here.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
the Universities be fully integrated into the seed industry. This would
increase the breeders' exposure to seed users; increasing breeder re-
sponsibility and accountability should improve seed quality through the
multiplication chain. To assist the breeders, and to develop the skills
necessary for foundation seed production, a special foundation seed
production unit would be created at each participating University 1/.
28.       To the extent that Universities lacked land to fully meet founda-
tion seed demand the balance would be produced by State Farms Corporation
of India (SFCI) and NSC farms and, in Haryana, by the Haryana Seeds Devel-
opment Corporation (HSDC) farm. All foundation seed farms require addi-
tional facilities to improve and expand their output and these would be
provided under the project.
29.       Under the proposed scheme, NSC would guarantee purchase of all
foundation seed, for All-India varieties, that it requests Universities (and
other institutions) to produce. This quantity would be based on NSC's
assessment of certified seed requirements for intrastate and interstate
use. The purchase guarantee would not apply to local varieties produced
for intrastate use only. Because demand and production are not accurately
predictable a GOI-financed reserve stock scheme would be operated for
foundation seed as for certified seed. (Annex 11). Stocks maintained
would be 50% for hybrids (maize, sorghum, pearl millet) and 10% for self-
pollinated crops (mainly wheat and paddy). The latter are less of a risk
because, in an emergency, certified seed can be upgraded.
30.       Foundation Seed Production Procedures.  Foundation seed of self-
pollinated crops (wheat, rice, barley, pulses, etc.) and composites (maize,
millet, sorghum) would be increased from breeder seed under appropriate
isolation. Foundation seed of hybrids would be produced from parent
inbred lines under appropriate isolation. With hybrids of sorghum and pearl
millet the male-sterile parent A-line would be produced by crossing with
its male-fertile counterpart. A second stage of increase from breeder seed
would be needed where the seed demand for a particular variety is large; this
will occur particularly in wheat. Rigorous roguing of all seed production
fields is required. Cost of roguing foundation seed fields will be reduced
if purity of breeder seed is high, as expected under the project; likewise
high purity of foundation seed would reduce presently excessive roguing
costs in certified seed fields, a factor in high seed prices.
31.       Quality control 2/ would be provided by (a) official certifica-
tion of all foundation seed fields, (b) inspections made by the originating
breeder, and (c) grow-out tests on all foundation seed lots by the State
Seed Certification Agency. The grow-out tests would serve as both post-
control tests for the foundation seed and pre-control tests for certified
1/   At Universities producing both breeder and foundation seed one
production unit would handle both.
2/   See also Annex 5.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
seed lots. The latter would materially assist quality control in certified
seed. Both private and public sector foundation seed producers would be
subject to the same quality control procedures.
32.       Project investments of Rs 18 M (US$2 M) would improve foundation
seed production facilities on the farms of six Universities in the four
participating States. Main investment items would be:
(a) processing and storage buildings;
(b) equipment for conditioned storages; and
(c) processing equipment.
These are detailed and costed at Table 6. The University farms also require
irrigation and land development and additional cultivation machinery. These
needs would be met under the project but are discussed separately in Annex 2.
33.       NSC would provide consultancy services to the Universities in the
same way as to SSC. Procurement for University buildings and equipment
would also follow the SSC pattern with processing equipment being bulked
with that of SSC. (Annex 3).
34.       The Universities would operate their seed programs as commercial
ventures. Development funds would be obtained from commercial banks at
normal rates. To operate profitably the Universities would sell foundation
seed at about 20% above the ruling certified seed growers' price for the
crop, the rate being negotiated with NSC.
IV. Seed Technology Research
Introduction
35.       The National Seed Project would require a continuing input of
applied research information to solve the many difficulties and problems
that have surfaced or can be expected. It must be emphasized that the re-
search needed is of the applied, problem-solving and developmental types. It
should be focused on, and relevant to, the objectives of the seed project, i.e.
production and supply of adequate quantities of quality seed to the Indian
farmer, at an economical price. Considering the many problems, in seed produc-
tion, processing, storage and usage, that presently constrain seed industry
efficiency, academic, non-mission oriented seed research cannot be justified.
Ample research of this type is underway in the developed countries and the
results are available and useful in India.
Present Situation
36.       There is very little seed research underway in India at present
and much of it is not especially relevant to actual or potential problems



ANNEX 1
Page 9
in seed industry operations. Information needed for seed industry devel-
opment is often unavailable. For example: there are no data on the yield
advantage of industry-produced seed as compared to farmer-saved seed of
the same variety; repeatedly it is stated - by officials connected with the
seed industry - that seed cannot be produced in a certain region or state
because of climatic conditions, yet there are no data to support this conte-
tion; and technical information on drying and storage needs in seed opera-
tions is deficient.
Project Proposasls
37.       The proposals advanced by the Agricultural Universities in the
project States were inextricably mixed with breeder and foundation seed
production and/or overly oriented toward their academic teaching mission.
In most cases establishment of a wholly new department was envisioned. Seed
technology research should be separated from the breeder seed operations; it
should be primarily focused on actual research with teaching relegated to
a secondary role; and it should be organized as an interdisciplinary program,
rather than as a separate discipline or department. The following project
proposals and recommendations are consistent with this view.
38.       Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has the best seed research
program of the Universities which would participate in the project. The
program is essentially in the Department of Agricultural Engineering and
is concerned mainly with seed drying, handling and storage, and processing
to a limited degree.
39.       Seed technology research at PAU would be reorganized as an inter-
disciplinary program, cooperative among the Departments of Agronomy (Plant
Breeding), Botany, Horticulture and Agricultural Engineering. A coordina-
tor and senior research officer would be appointed and staff assigned from
the various departments to the interdisciplinary program. Additional of-
fices and laboratories would be constructed and equipped to house the program
activities. Supporting staff would be employed. Investment costs, staffing
and operational costs for establishment of the unit are given in Table 7.
40.       Seed research at PAU would be of broad scope.  It would develop
needed information--on physiological, pathological, bio-engineering, and
quality control aspects of seed operations--that would permit resolution of
chronic problems generally confronting the seed industry. Developmental
work would also be undertaken to identify suitable alternatives to present
high-energy requiring drying and storage technology. Research areas that
would be addressed include:
-    relation between seed quality and crop performance;
-    solar drying;
-    mechanical damage inflicted to seed during harvest,
processing and handling;



ANNEX I
Page 10
development of flame delinting procedures for cotton-
seed;
influence of bulk storage construction and material
(concrete and steel) on storability;
-    prevalence and significance of seed borne micro-
organisms; and
-    control systems for storage insects
41.       Haryana Agricultural University (HAU).  The cropping system and
climatic conditions in Haryana are similar to those in Punjab. Complete
duplication of efforts in seed research cannot be justified. Accordingly,
a smaller seed research unit is proposed for HAU (Table 7). It would be
organized as an interdisciplinary program among the Departments of Agronomy
and Botany. The program would emphasize the following areas:
-    seed testing methods and interpretation;
-    quality control techniques and systems;
-    seed development and maturation of cool season crops;
-    fluctuations in seed moisture contents during storage;
-    field deterioration and insect damage to cottonseed; and
-    effect of seed quality on stand establishment.
42.       Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University (APAU).  A major seed re-
search unit is proposed for APAU (Table 7). It would be organized as an
interdisciplinary program among the Departments of Agronomy, Botany and
Agricultural Engineering. Major research emphasis would be given to
rice seed production, harvesting, drying, processing and storage, during
both the rabi and kharif seasons. Secondary emphasis would be given to
problems related to hybrid seeds.
43.       Akola Agricultural University (Maharashtra).  A major seed re-
search unit is also proposed for Akola. This unit would be interdisciplina-
ry among the Departments of Agronomy, Botany and Agricultural Engineering
(Table 7). Major research emphasis would be given to cotton seed production,
harvesting, ginning, delinting, cleaning, treating and storage. Some areas
in need of research attention are:
-    relation of time of harvest (picking) to quality
in cottonseed;



ANNEX 1
Page 11
-    comparison of saw and roller gins as to extent of
seed damage;
-    most satisfactory procedures for handling and storing
of cottonseed after ginning;
-    relative merits and economics of alternative delinting
procedure;
-    influence of ginning, bulk handling and delinting pro-_
cedures on storage life of cottonseed; and
-    development of flame delinting procedures.
44.       Parbhani Agricultural University (Maharashtra).  A smaller inter-
disciplinary seed research program is proposed for Parbhani (Table 7).
It would be cooperative between the Departments of Agronomy and Botany.
Emphasis would be given to seed testing research, and to research on all
aspects of production, drying, processing and storage of hybrid sorghum,
maize and pearl millet seed.
Training
45.       Development of progressive and productive seed research units as
proposed would require staff with in-depth training in seed-related research
techniques and procedures. This type of training can be best be accomplished
through a graduate study program, in an established seed technology curriculum,
in one of the developed countries. The project would therefore provide fi-
nance for one candidate from each of the Universities to undertake an advanced
degree program in the US, Europe or Australia (see also Annex 6).



ANNEX I
Table 1
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Plant Breeding, Breeder and Foundation Seed Production
and Seed Technology Research
ICAR Research Institutes Engaged in Plant Breeding Research
1.   IARI      -    Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi
2.   CRRI      -    Central Rice Research Institute, Cuttack, Orissa
3.   JARI      -    Jute Agricultural Research Institute, Barrackpore, W.B.
4.   IHR       -    Institute of Horticultural Research, Bangalore, Karnataka
5.   CPRI      -    Central Potato Research Institute, Simla, H.P.
6.   IGFRI     -    Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute, Jhansi,
U.P.
7.   CTCRI     -    Central Tuber Crops Research Institute, Tivandrum, Kerala
8.   SBI       -    Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore, T.N.
9.   CTRI      -    Central Tobacco Research Institute, Rajahamundry, A.P.
10.   IRC         -  ICAR Research Complex, Shillong, Megghalaya
11.  CICR       -    Central Institute for Cotton Research, Nagpur, Maharashtra
(new in Fifth Plan)



ANNEX 1
Table 3
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Plant Breeding, Breeder and Foundation Seed Production
and Seed Technology Research
Breeder Seed Obtained by NSC in 1975-76
Crop            Variety                Quantity (kg)            Source
Wheat           Sonalika                        5,000        IARI, Karnal
Malvika                        3,300         IARI, Karnal
Shera                          1,000        IARI, Karnal
HD-2122                           120       IARI, Karnal
HD-4530                            88       IARI, Karnal
HP-1102                           195        IARI, Karnal
Total                  9,703
Rice            IR-8                            1,280        AICRIP, Hyderabad
Ratna                          1,270        AICRIP, Hyderabad
Bala                           1,020        AICRIP, Hyderabad
Sona                             990        AICRIP, Hyderabad
IR-20                             710       AICRIP, Hyderabad
Jaya                              700       AICRIP, Hyderabad
Cauvery                          660        AICRIP, Hyderabad
Total                  6,630
Barley          DL-70                           1,195        IARI, New Delhi
K-125                          1,020        CAUAT, Kanpur
Total                  2,215
Oat             Kent                              300        IARI, Karnal
Gram            H-208                           1,700        HAU, Hissar
C-235                          1,600        IARI, Karnal
C-214                             800       HAU, Hissar
Pant G-110                       800        GBPUAT, Pantnagar
Total                   4,900



ANNEX I
Table 2
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Plant Breeding, Breeder and Foundation Seed Production
and Seed Technology Research
Agricultural Universities
1.  GBPUAT    Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture and Technology
Pantnagar (U.P.)
2.  PAU       Punjab Agricultural University, Chandigarh
3.  UU        University of Udaipur, Udaipur (Rajasthan)
4.  OUAT      Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology,
Bhubaneswar
5.  APAU      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University, Hyderabad
6.  UAS       University of Agricultural Sciences, Bangalore (Karnataka)
7.  JVLVV     Jawaharlal Nehru Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya (West Bengal)
8.  BCKVV     Bidhan Chandra Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya, (West Bengal)
9.  KKV       Konkan Krishi Vidyapeeth, Dapoli (Maharashtra)
10.  MPKV      Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Akola (Maharashtra)
11.  PKV       Punjababrao Krishi Vidyapeeth, Akola (Maharashtra)
12.  AAU       Assam Agricultural University, Jorhat
13.  HAU       Haryana Agricultural University, Hissar
14.  RAU       Rajendra Agricultural University, Pusa (Bihar)
15.  KAU       Kerala Agricultural University, Mannuthy (Kerala)
16.  HPU       Himachal Pradesh University (Agricultural Complex), Simla
17.  TNAU      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Univerity, Coimbatore (Tamil Nadu)
18.  MKV       Marathwada Krishi Vidyapeeth, Parbhani (Maharashtra)
19.  GAU       Gujarat Agricultural University
20.  SMAU      Sadiq Memorial Agricultural University, Srinagar (J & K)
21.  ISARI     Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi
22.  CSAUAT    Chandra Shekar Azad University of Agriculture and
Technology, Kanpur (U.P.)
23.  NDAPVK    Narendra Deva Avam Prodyogik Vishwa Vidalaya Faizabad (U.P.)
24.  BHU       Benares Hindu University (U.P.)
25.  ARSUU     Agricultural Research Station, University of Udaipur
(Rajasthan)



ANNEX 1
Table 3
Page 2
Crop            Variety                Quantity (kg)            Source
Pea             EC-33866                          330        IARI, New Delhi
Lentil          Pant L-408                         50       GBPUAT, Pantnagar
Pant L-209                       300        GBPUAT, Pantnagar
Total                       350
Arhar           T-21                               80        CAUAT, Kanpur
P. Ageti                          98        IARI, Delhi
Total                       178
Urad            T-9                                80        CAUAT, Kanpur
S-1                               79        IARI, New Delhi
Total                       159
Moong           S-8                                35.5      IARI, New Delhi
Cowpea          C-152                              24        IARI, New Delhi
Berseem         Diploid                           300        IARI, Karnal
Diploid                        1,500        HAU, Haryana
Diploid                          500        RFRS, Hissar
Total                     2,300
Forage Sorghum Pusa Chari                         100        IARI, New Delhi
Rape and
Mustard        Pusa Kalyani                      100        CAUAT, Kanpur
Varuna                            100       PAU, Ludhiana
Torta                             40        PAU, Ludhiana
Sel-A                            240        PAU, Ludhiana
480



ANNEX 1
Table 4
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Plant Breeding, Breeder and Foundation Seed Production
and Seed Technology Research
Institlitions That Will Receive Assistance for
Breeder Seed Production
Institution                    Location                          Crops
1. ICAR Research Institutes for Production of Breeder Seed
IARI                 Karnal, Haryana               Wheat, barley, oats,
maize, pulses, oilseeds,
vegetables
IARI                 Katrain, H.P.                  Pulses, vegetable
CPRI                 Jullunder, Punjab              Potatoes
AICRIP (will be
combined with
APAU)               Rajendranagar, A.P.            Rice
CRRI                 Cuttack, Orissa                Rice
JARI                 Barrackpur, W.B.               Jute
IHR                  Bangalore, Karnataka           Vegetables
IGFRI                Jhansi, U.P.                   Forages
2. Agricultural Universities in Phase One States
PAU                  Ludhiana, Punjab               Processing and storage only
PAU                  Mattewara Farm                 Wheat, barley, maize, pearl
millet, pulses, oilseeds,
fodders, minor millets,
vegetables
PNU                  Kapurthala Farm                Rice
IAU                  Hissar, Haryana                Wheat, rice, pearl millet,
cotton, pulses, oilseeds
fodders, tobacco, vegetables



ANNEX 1
Table 4
Page 2
Institutions That Will Receive Assistance for
Breeder Seed Production
Institution                    Location                          Crops
APAU/AICRIP          Rajendranagar, A.P.            Rice, sorghum, pearl
millet, maize, pulses,
oilseeds, cotton, millets,
vegetables
PKV                  Akola, Maharashtra             Cotton, sorghum, pearl
millet, pulses, oilseeds
PKV                  Niphad, Maharashtra            Wheat
MKV                  Parbhani, Maharashtra          Sorghum, pearl millet,
pluses, oilseeds
MKV                  Badnapur, Maharashtra          Pulses
MPKV                 Rahuri, Maharashtra            Sorghum, forages, oilseeds,
rice, cotton
3.  Agricultural Universities Outside Phase One States
GBPUAT               Pantnagar, U.P.                Wheat, barley, maize,
pulses, oilseeds, vegetables
BHU                  Varanasi, U.P.                 Wheat
CSAUAT                Kanpur, U.P.                   Wheat, barley, pulses,
oilseeds
TNAU                 Coimbatore, T.N.               Sorghum, pulses, oilseeds,
millets, forage crops, cotton
UAS                  Bangalore, Karnataka           Pulses, oilseeds, millets,
vegetables
JNKV                 Jabalpur, M.P.                 Wheat, pulses, oilseeds,
millets, forages, vegetables
GAU                  Jammagar, Gujarat              Sorghum, pulses, oilseeds,
millets.



ANNEX 1
Table 5a
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Plant Breeding, Breeder and Foundation Seed
Production and Seed Technology Research
Breeder Seed - Investment Costs Summary'/
Total       Foreign             Phasing
Costs      Exchange    Year 1  Year 2  Year 3
Rs '000  0    0 Rs 'I00   - - - - s'0  -
Farm Machinery             1,900    35      665    1,000      900
Buildings                  4,228    15      634             2,228    2,000
Cooling, Dehumidifying
Equipnent                  3,520    40    1,408             1,520    2,000
Processing and Storage
Equipment                  2,730    40    1,092             1,400    1,330
12.378          3,799    1,000    6,048    5,330
Physical Contingencies     2,300            690               800   1,500
Total Investmaent Costs -
Breeder Seed              14,678          4,489    1,000    6,848    6,830
1/ Further detail in Tables 5b, c and d.



I NDIA
NATIONiL SEED PROJ9CT
Breeder Seed - Investment Cost at Universities in Phase I States
Punjab                           Haryana      Andhra Pradesh                               Naharashtra
Mai C   us   Mattewarm Farm   KartnLla Farm    Main Campus          Main CaTpus      Akola C u   Akola-Niphad   A            C R        ahuri Ca ws
am          RIOOO             PI oo              R'OOO           R'OOO            Pt,O 0~~         ROO             RXooo         --VIooo-
Far-m Machinery
Seed drill                                              10                                  10               10                10                              10
Sprayer                                                  5                                    5               5                 5                               5
Thresher (Vogel type)                                   30                30                 30              60                30              30              30
Thresher (single plant)                                 15                15                15               30                15              15              15
4WD and trailer                                         50                                  50               50
Small tools and miscellaneous                           50                20                Sc               50                50              20              20
Sub-total                                           160                65                160             205               110              65              do
Buildings
Processing hall                                        160                                  160             160               100                             100               loO
Store                                                  216                                  216             216               100                             100               100
Threshing floor                                         20                20                 20              20                20                              ao
Sub-total                                           396                20                396             396               220                             220               200
gooling. Dehumidiflying Fquipment
Lir corditioner/dehumidifler             75                                                  75              75                50                               50                50
Refrigerator                            100                                                 100             100                65                               65               65
Generator                                60                                                  60              60                60                               60               60
Sun-tutal                            235                                                 235             235               175                              175              175
Pfrocul   and Storage Equipment
Drie                                     35                                                  35              35                353
Laboratory size cleaner                  30                                                  30               30               30                               30                30
Air blast cleaner                        15                                                  15               15               15                               15                15
Shelving cabinets, etc.                  30                                                  30               30               20                               20                20
Sub-total                            110                                                 110             110               100                              100               100
Physical Contingencies                      69             111                17               180             lg                121              13             115                95
Total Costs                                414             667              102              1,081           1,135               726             7l               690               570
March 22, 1976



ANNEX I
Table 5c
INDIA
NATICNAL SEMD PROJECT
Breeder Seed - Investment Costs at UnivereitiesAl Outside Phase I States
Uttar Pradesh        Rajasthan   Tamil Nadu   Karnataka Madhya Pradesh   Gujarat
BHU         CSAUAT       ARSUU         TNAU         UAS         JNKVV          CAU
Fann Machinery
Seed drill                                10           10           10                        10            10           10
Sprayer                                    5            5            5                         5             5            5
Thresher (Vogel type)                     30           30           30           30           30            30           30
Thresher (single plant)                   15           15           15           15           15            15           15
4WD and trailer                            -            -             -           -            -             -
Small tools and miscellaneous             20           20           20           20           20            20           20
Subtotal                             80           80           80           65           80            80           80
Buildings
Processing hall                         lQ0           100          100                                                  100
S tore                                   100          100          100                                                  100
Threshing floor                           20           20           20                        20            20           20
Subtotal                           220           220          220                        20            20          220
Cooling, Dehumidifying Ecquiprment
Air conditioner/dehumidifier              50           5o           50                                                   50
Refrigerator                              65           65           65                                                   65
Generator                                 60           60           60                                                   60
Subtotal                           175           175          175                                                  175
Processing and Storage Equipment
Dryer                                     35           35            35                                                  35
Laboratory-size cleaner                   30           30           30                                                   30
Air blast cleaner                         15           15            15                                                  15
Shelving, cabinets, etc.                  20           20           20                                                   20
Subtotal                            100          100          100                                                  100
Physical Contingencies                     115          115           115          13            20           20          115
Total Costs                                690          690           690          78          120           120          690
1/ Full names at Table 2.



ANNEX 1
Table 5d
NATION&L SEED PROJECT
Breeder Seed - Investment Costs at ICAR Instituted
IARI        IARI         CRRI         JARI            IAR        IGFU          CPaI
Karnal    Katrain       Cut tack    Barrackpu       Bangalore     Jhansi    Jullundar
Farm Machinerr
Seed drill                                        10                        10             10           10
Sprayer                                            5                         5              5            5
Thresher (Vogel type)                             30          30            30             30           30
Thresher (single plant)                           15          15                           15           15
4WD and trailer                      50                                                                                2/
Small tools ani miscellaneous        20           20          20            20             20           LO            7
Sub-total                         70           80          65            65             80           80           70
Bduidjiva
Processing hall                                  100         100           300            100          100          2002
Store                                            100         100           100            100          100          200
Threshirg floor                                   20                                       20           20
Sub-total                                     220         200           200            220          220          4D0
Cooling, dehumidifying equipment,
Air conditioner/dehumidifier         75           50          50            50              50          50           240
Refrigerator                        100           65          65            65             65           65
Generator                            60           60          60            60             60           60          240
Sub-total                        235         175          175          175             175          175          4dO
Processirn and Storage Equipment
Drier                                35           35          35            35             35           35
Laboratory size cleaner              30           30          30            30             30           30
Air blast cleaner                    15           15          15            15             15           15
Shelvirg cabinets etc.               20           20          20            20             20           20
Sub-total                        100         100          100          100             100          100         u00-
Physical Contirgencies                  80          115         108           108             115         -15           235
Total Costs                             L85        690          648           648            690          690         22d5
F Eall names at Table 1.
/ Potato digger ain planter.
3/ Glasshouse, light and temperature controlled.
Ultra centrifuge, potato grader, deep freeze and refrigerator.



IflDIA
NATIONAL SEED PNJEC?
Pl.Ant Breeding, Breeder anid Foundation Seed Productioen and Seed Tecbnlooy Research
Fouondation Seed - lnv~estinnt Ceets
Haryan                Andhra Pradeeh                           M4aharashtra
Unit               Pw.uieb AerietortagL Universit:r              Agricultural        Aericultoro  Uniersity                Acriuatre1 Universities               Overal   Fnreign   Forel gn                 Phasing 
Cost    Nettewara    Rpr         arigr          potaaTtal  University   1*ocaintion               in2       Total       Akola      Pacultwa:UniversnuitTi ta    Total   Exchange  Exchange  Year 1  Year 2  Year, 3  Year~ 4
Unit    R        oRO No  R        ' 000   No  R 'OO N.R000   ND RI OW0  R'OC  DROO No R'000    No R0000     No R0000  No  R        ICOO No R0000  No R'OOR000 NoI90000900 RO          %        RI 000
Buildings
Procooing Hall        H       375    600   225        -      600    225  600    225    675  600    225   600    225  600    225              4 150  600   225  600   225  600   225    675   2,025          15         304.
Store, non
insulated           N       375    800   300        -            -      1.00    150    1.50  600    3001400        1501400    150-         3001.00  1501400  1501400  150              4.501,500         15          225
Store, insulated       N       625    1.0   250  1.00   250  1.00    250  200    125    875  4.00    250   200    1.25  200    125  -          250  200   125  200   125  200   125    375   1.5             20         350
Sob-total                                 775         250          4.75         500  2,000          775            500         500       1,000o        500         500         500  1,500   5,275                              775   2,500   2,000
Air Conditi Oning
Niuipuont                     L .S.          125         125          125           g0    1.65         125             90           90        180          90          90          90    270 1,01.0          50         520        -       700      31.0
Seed Processing                                                                                               2/
Xquipaent            get  700,000        1  700    1  700    1    700    1    700  2.600    1    8.-            1    700    1    700 11.1400    1  700    1  700    1  700 2100  7.130                       55       3.2          64.03,000  3,500
Sub-total                               1,600       1,075        1,300        1,290  5,265        1,71.0        1,290        1,290       2,560       1,290       1,290       1,290  3,870  13,1.55                5,326
Fees to NSO (iS%).V                             21.0        160          195          195    790           260           195          195         390         195         195         195    585   2,0251                             215      930       0
jnolCntingencies
buil1cdings and
equipmenut)                                   80          55           65           65    265            65            65           65        130           65         65          65    195       675       4.0        270                         500      175
Iepwt Daties (40% on)                           140         11.0         11.0         140    560           1,~2/         1410         11.0        260         11.0        14.0        11.0   1.20   1.450                  -         a         600-    2 
Total Investment Coot -Foundation Seed        2,000       1,4.30       1,700C       1,690  6,88o         2,275         1,690        1,690       3,380      1,690       1,690       1,690  5,070  17,605                  5,596      1,780   7,730   7,920       175
*Cleaner .dVl indent 1.5 t/hr          106,000
Bucket elevator 10 t/hr 32'            16,000
Bucket elevator 10 t/hr 241.           12,000
*Uravity separator                      61,500
*Treater - slurry type                  61,100
aWeigher - bagger                         9,900
*Seeing mAchine-portable                12,000
*Corn dhuele                            56,000
Special separator                       2,500
Silo/drying bin  200 t                139,000
(with dcivil mrks)
Heater for ds7yr                       38,000
Vacuum cleaner                         10,700
Coapresor                              13,1.00
Spares 10%                             60.900
700,000
aCustom duty 0 1.0%                    11.40,000
I/ lides 3 t/br cleaner 8 8236,000 instad of 1it i/hr cleaner.
I/   For desig, procurement en,' comed-nio.ing osrv-s..



INI
NATIONAL SESD PROJECT
Seed Technology, Researcb - ProJect Costs
Andhra       Haryana           Maharashtra            Putnjab                 Forrgn    FarI'gn                       Fl at me
Unit      Urit Cost       Pradesh                   Akola        P&bbhanL                    Total       acchange  'hchange     !, 1    lear 2    ear 3    lear 4
R         No.  R'OOO   No.  R'OOO   No. R0OOO   No. R'OOO   MD. R'OOo           RIOOO        %         R1000        ROOO       R'OOO     R'OOo      R'OO
Investment Costs
Laboratory and office                     N2            600      350    210      -          300    180   150      90   380    228        708                                   -        708        -        -
Research equipment                       LS             -               240          160           310           160          250     1,120           70       784            80        690       350       -
Office equipment                         i.3             -               15            10           15            15           15         70                                  10         40        20       -
Laboratory and office furniture          is             -                40            15           40            40           40       175                                   15        130        30       -
Vehicle                                  No          50,000        1     50      -            1     50       -           1     50        150          25         37            -        150        -        -
Motorcycle                               No           7,000         -           1       7      -           1       7      -               14          25          3             7         7         -       -
isecellanmous                            IS              -               30            10           30            20           17        107                _                   5        60         42
Sub-total                                                            585           202          625           332          600      2,344                    824          117      1,785      1442
Operating Costs
Seed research of1'icer and
coordinitor                        Man year       18,000        4     72     4      72     4     72     4      72     4     72        360                                   90.0      90.0       90.0      90.0
Assistant seed research officers                     12,000       14    168     8      96    14    168      7     84    14    168        684                                  108.0     192.0      192.0     192.0
Research assistants                                   6,600       14     92.4   8      52.6  14     92.4   7      46.2  114    92.4      376.2                                 59.4     105.6      105.6     105.6
Lab ani field attendants                 0            4,800      114    67.2   8       38.4  14     67.2   7      33.6  14     67.2      273.6                                 43.2      76.8       76.8      76.8
Steno typist                             "            5,600        6     33.6   4      22.4   6     33.6   4      22.4   6     33.6    1145.6                                  28.0      28.0       44.8      44.8
Travel allmwarme                        lay               15     300       4.5 200      3   300      4.5 200       3   300       4.5      19.5                                 3.5        4.0        6.0       6.0
Vehicle operation                   1,000 miles       1,030       30     30       -          30     30       -          30     30         90                                   -         20.0       30.0      40.0
Motor cycle operation               1,000 miles          400        -           30     12      -           30     12       -     -        24                                   3.0        6.0        6.0        9.0
Supplies, utilities ani
services                              iS                              33            36           33            28           47        177                                  28.0       34.0       32.0      83.0
Equipment repair and
maintenance                           LS                               9             8             9            6             9        41                    _              -           3.0      15.0      23.0
Sub-total (rourLied)                                                 510           341          510           307           524     2.192                                 363.0      560.0      598.0     670.0
Total Project Costs (rounded)                                            1,095           543        1,135           639        iL,24      4,536           18       824          480      2,345      1,0140      t70
Ha,eh 22.  976






INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
BUILDING FOR PROCESSING AND STORAGE: BREEDERS SEED
AREA                                                                                   -,
LEGEND                                                                                                          E
A. Refrigerated area (t, C, 40% RH)                                                                             E
8. Airconditioned area (1 50C, 40% RH)
C. Not finished or cleaned material
D. Threshers & cleaning machines
E. Diesel-electric generator
F. Dryer                                                        SECTIONAL ELEV. AT JJ
G. Anti-chamber
p  30m                                J             p                      15m                                5m
C
D                                                G                                                                  A          E
C
PLAN                                                     I_F_I
|_                1 2m                      3m
World Bank-15646 8?






INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
DRYER FOR SMALL LOTS OF BREEDER SEED
6mm Movable Partition Walls of Plywvood
L -SECTION                                      -10mm Iron Rods
10mm  Rods
0 X t                 T1lI11211111121~~~~~~~~~I  t           I t Il:lllD:lll1lll
0.6m                              1OOm  |.OOm  |.OOm m 1 .OOm         1.00m    1.Om     1 .OOm   1 .OOm
X -SECTION                                                           8.00m
PLAN
World Bank-15647
H. 






ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Farm and Related Development
University Farm Development
1.        In the past the seed industry has suffered from shortages and
poor quality foundation and breeder seed. It is therefore a major element
of seed industry development policy that Agricultural Universities be
integrated into the National Seed Program in order to ensure supplies of
an adequate quantity and quality of seed of these critical generations.
In order to permit the Universities to fulfil this role the project would
develop University farms. Included would be: the Hissar farm of the Haryana
Agricultural University (HAU) and the campus farms of the Akola, Parbhani and
Rahuri Agricultural Universities in Maharashtra.
2.        Neither Punjab (PAU) nor Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University
(APAU) has adequate land to meet its foundation seed target. During
appraisal, State Governments agreed that they would be given additional
land. In Punjab it was agreed that the Agricultural Department's Matte-
wara farm would be transferred to PAU. In Andhra Pradesh several Agricul-
tural Department farms would be technically suitable for foundation seed
production but all are up to 240 km from APAU and therefore difficult to
supervise. It was therefore decided to try to locate suitable Government land
nearer to Hyderabad. Failing this Departmental farms would be transferred.
Selection of land for transfer to APAU would be finalized in consultation with
the Bank.
3.        The extent and nature of the development required varies consider-
ably between farms. The proposed investments are detailed at Table 1. Main
items are: wells, land development, farm machinery and buildings. In Andhra
Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab the available (or proposed) areas to be developed
would be required to meet short-term demand for foundation seed. In Maharashtra,
the developed areas would exceed short-term needs for foundation seed; pending
expansion of demand the Universities would also produce certified seed. Large
scale operations would be of particular advantage in Maharashtra where the
main seed crops would be cereal hybrids and cotton, which present the biggest
isolation problems. Furthermore, the Maharashtra project areas do not have
the concentration of existing seed growers found in other project areas.
Certified seed production on University farms would therefore serve as a
buffer pending build-up of production from shareholding farmers.
4.        The Universities would undertake their seed operations on a
commercial basis obtaining development loans from commercial banks on
normal terms (Annex 10). The Universities' equity contributions would
be supplied as necessary by the respective State Governments.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        Procurement of large tractors not produced in India (65 HP and
over) and farm machinery would be handled in bulk by NSC following ICB pro-
cedures. Small tractor procurement has been reserved by GOI and would be
excluded from project financing. Building and land development would be
undertaken by the Universities themselves or on contract after competitive
bidding advertised locally. The small size and wide scatter of works
precludes ICB.
6.        The standard of management on the Univesity farms is adequate and
justifies the proposed investments.   Standing crops, including seed crops,
were good at the time of appraisal. However, in order to optimize development
and management, and to justify loan requests to banks, detailed farm plans
are necessary and would be prepared (para 15). The estimated financial and
economic returns to investment in large farm development, based on a model for
the State Farm Corporation of India (SFCI) Hissar farm (para 9), are 21% and
17%, respectively (Annex 12).
SFCI Farm Development
7.        NSP policy recognizes that where suitable large farms exist they can
produce seed more efficiently than large numbers of small growers. For this
reason it is intended that SFCI--a company wholly owned by GOI--which operates
12 farms covering 34,800 ha in 9 States, play an important role in the develop-
ment of the seed industry.
8.        Until recently SFCI was poorly managed and most of its farms performed
badly. This was in part due to the inadequate calibre of farm management but
more particularly to the lack of adequate guidance from SFCI headquarters.
However SFCI now shares a new chairman with NSC. He is putting together a
headquarters team which is expected to give closer supervision to farm manage-
ment and development. Several members of this team have been recruited and a
closely monitored system of management by objective has been instituted
together with an incentive bonus system. Already improvements in farm opera-
tions and the pace and quality of development are to be seen.
9.        However, much remains to be done.  The farms are underdeveloped
and under capitalized. All need additional irrigation water and land
development. All have a very poor range of farm machinery, much of it at
the end of its useful life.  Timely cultural operations are thus impossible,
to the detriment of productivity. Most of the farms require additional
buildings for efficient operation. Under the project it is proposed to
develop two SFCI farms, Ladhowal in Punjab and Hissar iniHaryana.  Both
are located in project areas close to University farms. They could thus sup-
plement foundation seed production should this be necessary.
10.       The investments proposed would be similar to those of the University
farms. Details are at Table 1. Both farms are on light sandy soils. On-
farm irrigation efficiency would improve significantly through land levelling



ANNEX 2
Page 3
and improvements to conveyance systems (field efficiency from 50% to 65%, con-
veyance efficiency from 75% to 85%). The Ladhowal farm has excellent ground-
water potential which would be developed. The Hissar farm has no groundwater
potential but would benefit from increased quantities of canal water when the
Beas-Sutlej link canal is completed and the capacity of the canal system
serving the farm has been enlarged (para 18). Virtually the entire machinery
complement would be replaced under the project.
11.       The farms would obtain development loans from commercial banks on
standard terms. Equity capital would be provided by SFCI supplemented as
required by GOI. Procurement would be handled in the manner described
for Univesity farms (para 5).
12.       With the management changes being introduced, the proposed invest-
ments are justified. However, as with the University farms, detailed farm
plans have yet to be prepared. Their preparation would be a condition of
disbursement against SFCI farm development. The estimated return to the
proposed investments is the same as for University farms (para 6).
HSDC Farm Development
13.       HSDC will become the Haryana SSC.  It now operates a 575 ha farm
adjacent to the RAU and SFCI farms at Hissar. During appraisal the State
Government agreed that the farm would be transferred to the Haryana Agro-
Industries Corporation since it is National Seed Program policy that SSC
not operate farms.
14.       Since the farm forms part of a contiguous block with the HAU and
SFCI farms, is served by the canal system to be improved (para 18), and
is of good potential and well managed, it would be developed under the
project. Proposed investments would be similar to those of the other large
farms, particularly SFCI's Hissar Farm. They are detailed at Table 1. Finan-
cing and procurement arrangements would also be similar. A farm plan would
be required as a condition of disbursement. The anticipated return to invest-
ment is the same as for University and SFCI farms (para 6).
Large Farm Planning
15.       Detailed farm plans had not been prepared for the large farms pro-
posed for development under the project. Plans would be,necessary to justify
loan requests to banks, to implement development properly and as a management
tool. The need for plans was accepted by concerned officials. The project
preparation working group has been asked to prepare a program for the pre-
paration of farm plans, including the allocation of planning responsibility,
and to submit the first plan(s) to the Bank for comment before negotiations.
It would be a condition of disbursement against investment in each farm
that a plan satisfactory to the Bank had been prepared.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Irrigation Canal Remodelling
16.       The Hissar area is entirely dependent on canal water for irrigation.
Inadequate water supply is the area's greatest production constraint, the
present allocation is 0.4 1/sec/ha commanded for 7 days out of each 24.  (In
each rotation 1 day is lost as turnover time). This is totally inadequate.
In the past it permitted the SFCI farm to practice sub-optimal irrigation
on only 1,000 ha out of a cultivable area of 2,500 ha. An improved manage-
ment practice has recently been introduced which would further reduce the
area irrigated but is expected to give the same production (greater yields)
at less cost. The situation on the HSDC farm is similar. (The HAU farm has
a special allocation giving it water 14 days out of 24.)
17.       To some extent the shortage of water could be alleviated by im-
proving on-farm efficiency of water use. This could be done by land level-
ling and channel lining, both included in the farm development program.
Even then water would still constrain production.
18.       However, by June 1977 a link canal is expected to be completed
between the Beas and Sutlej rivers. This would make additional water availa-
ble to the area sufficient to raise allocations to about 0.7 l/sec/ha commanded.
In order to convey the additional water the capacity of the canal system must
be increased. This would be done under the project. Details of canal works
and their cost are at Tables 2.
19.       The canal system to be enlarged would serve an area of 8,000 ha.
In addition to the farms of concern to the project - the SFCI, HAU and
HSDC farms covering 5,200 ha - two other farms, a Government Livestock Farm
and a Tractor Training Center, would unavoidably benefit from the develop-
ment. In general canal lining would not be justified. However, a rather
high physical contingency has been allowed on canal improvement costs.
This is intended to cover small sections of lining which may be warranted
where canals pass through particularly permeable strata. The economic re-
turn to investment in canal remodeling is estimated to be 17%. This has
been calculated by including the pro rata share of costs in the SFCI Hissar
Farm model. (Annex 12).
20.       For the proposed canal remodeling work to be of interest to con-
tractors it would have to be let as one contract. This is not considered
feasible because of the problems associated with organizing work programs so
as to minimize disruption to irrigation schedules. Works would therefore
be carried out by force account.



UlOL,L 15  P8DJ5CT
lao .,, Related ha elo nt
Avmfte  AIAI.-  H.7-                                    P.Ioeatm,teso aso  2018 F.
Ira..     _i,      on     le         F80l
AVog   Aodhra        8a.iyaea            Dnhaaahr iv                   Pon3ah                       SF}F            o,  
Unlt    Prade-h                   Akole    P rbor    Rahuri    NattOse    Ropr  t .1    Hry               PunJab       R.a         *otel      ordgn   FYordgn                   Phag
o_t  Cost    SO  ha h.       O   ha     3000 h.   1200 ha    2500 ha        340 h.      675 ha       2900 ha    1180 ha       600 ha      Co.t      Yd.40 n     hg  ge   Ter I    YeZrN t     e   3   Year b
_     Mo. it-30  No. R'000  No. ROooY No. R'000  MD. R'OOO  No. _R,000  N. Rl000            we 1300  Mo. R'0JO  MD. R'000    R'000         J         300       R'C000    WODO    It-ODD    E!GO.
Irrigatiot
31.11,                 No~~~~~V   50,000   6    300                                                         12    600                 15     750                1,650       20         130       750       900
Tasks                          No  100,SO    7     3                                         2    200                                                                     200      rg          -                   150        50
Motors and elsctrification
of .,U.                     No    5,ooO                                                              2d    11.0                                                        Ib        20          30        70        70
l.,d de.1oPelo-t q.,pne7t
Treotor 90 HP                  No  200,000               1     200  4       d10 2    1.00  2       .o                              4    8b00   4     800   2      .00   3,800       60       1,540     1,600     Ia200         _       . IOOD
Scrap.r 1.3                    No   50,ooo                           2      100 1       50  1       5                              2    100  2    100  1         50      450       60         275       250       200
la,s pIase                     No   25,000               1      25  2        50 1       25  1       25                              2     50   2      50  1       25      250       25          75       150       100
L.ad leeller                   No   25,000               1      25  2        50 1       25  1       25                             2      50   2      50  1       25      250       25          75       1X5       100
Motor gradsr                   No  300,000                           1      300                                                    1    300   1      300                  900       50         15D       600       300
lWAn  dor.-lolt by .ontraot          Icno s,          750                      750        250         250         700        250                                           2,950     ns           -         950     1,000     1,000
Con,qWsnce/drainag. syst-s        -   [V  a           750          .50                                550         660        600           3.600      1,800         960    9,370      - g         _       2,500      3,870     3,000
Culti-ati.n equip nt
Tractor 70 HP                  No  150,000               2     300                                                                 12   1,8O0    5    750   3    450    3,300        60      1,55       1,650     1,650
Sr.ctor 80-50 HP                o   50o,oo0  10    500  6      300  4       200 2      100   4    200  6       300                 21   1,200  10    5O0   6      300    3,600       50      1,800      1,200     1,200    1,200
Ipl-nt-/tools                  -  lowsu            500         200           50         25          50         100                        750         400         250    2,325       30         920       800      8G0        725
0bine harvsters                No  300,000               2    600                                                                   2    600   2    600   1       300   2,100        60         o40               2,100
Truck - large                 No   150,000   1     150                      150        150         150                                                                    600        10         2Lo                600
Tr ck - s_11                   No   80,000   1      dO                                                                                                                      80      hO           30                  80
Spo  for quip,t (20%)            _I    Sp             200         330          340        155          8o0         80                      1,l1O        900          360    3,685       50       1,820               1,200    1265     1,200
hl,dt.-s                        -   lup  a            500         100                                             200        300            750         500         300    2,650        15      1,020       500       800        8G0      550
S.b-toto.,                                 3,730       2,530        2,790      1,1d8       2,060       2,180       1,750         31,11O       7,500      ,1.20   38,300                10,600    11,170   16,320      8,060    2,750
Phxsical coot1.e-oriso               Soup s.          750         -            420        180         310         220         -              560        375         3bO    3,155        35       1.000      -          -       2.000    1,155
Tot.l.                                        b,1.80      2,530        3,210      1,360       2,390       2,bO0       1.750         11,700       7,875       3,760   .1,.55               11,600    11,170   16,320     10,060     3,905
Total, net of l.0-50 HP tractor.   37,855               9,800     9,970   15,120      8,860     3,905
I/ The Rop.r, Kapurthdlaa   d Naraieggrh f-r. of PAU.
1SUC operates 1,000 ha but only the 600 ha ootalguos sitb t    0 AUcd 7SFCI fa    ut Hi.iar orld bhe de-eloped
The fr  .old be tranoferred to Agro-Indsotelt   Corpo &atio.
/ Oittod frO. project co.t beas pro.urret reered.
March 22. 1976



INDIA
NiTIONiL SEED PEIOJET
Faru and Related Derdq_nt
CanaleLengthageLrhart--h Disro-k ' cha-rg--e  --- &--r-t- vor                                                                                  - -T----- - -- - ------- ---C-OST CSO-S r-s 
Present    Proposed                   Preliunary (LS)   Land (Ha)   Rqgulatars(L1)  Bridpea (lb)   Syphosw (IS)  Outlets (N.)   artork (IS)   iscellaneos (IS)  total
H        M3/Sec      M3/Sec       M3 000                          No   R'000      R'000         No RON 'O         R'ODO       No   RODO         RBOO               R'000          11'000
rarm Minor               3,477       0.93         1.35            8             4               -               10          3      60         130       17       51           12                               267
Balsamani Sub Branch    31,720      15.75        16.17          185             5                              100          a      160      2,300       40       60          352                -            2,977
Rana Distributary       32,940       6.20         7.45          76              5               _              150         12      240      1,100       66       66          128                -            1,689
Barwala Branch          42,578      31.16        32.85        1,316             5           26      737        480         21    1,050        -          5       25        2,503                -            4,800
SaUy Minor              11, 660      1.63         2.26           30             4            7      201         20          8      240        -         16       32           46                -              543
Balak Minor             30,347       4.22         5.23          105             5           35      998         20          9      180        -         23       46          166                -            1,415
Sarsaud Distributary     d,137       5.01         6.02          27              5               -               15          2       80        600        9       18           43                -              761
Pabra Sub Branch        11,187      11.08        12.09           31             5               -              300          5      150        -         20       60           63                -              578
Sirsa Branch(RD388,500
to 342,000)          14,162      12.63        13.64           14             3               -               10             -              -          5       15           25                5               58
Sirsa Branch(RD342,000
to 316,000)           6.710      48.52        51.20           74             5            6      174        100             -              6oO           -                149                5            1.033
Sub-totals          192,938                                                 46                 2,110      1,205               2,160      4,730               373        3,487               10           14,121
Tear 1   I   2   Ysar 3
Total Cost of Works -              R lh,121,000
Overhead Costs - 20%               R 2.8264.00
R 16,945,000                965    10,400      5,600
Physical Contirgency               R4.236.ooc                   236      2,600    1,400
Total Cost of Canal Remodelling    R 21,1dl,000               1,181    13,000     7,000
1/ ls,oh sum.



ANNEX 3
Patme 1
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Processing
1.        The proposed National Seed Project would increase State Seed Corpo-
ration (SSC) processing capacity, for cereals in all participating States,
and for cotton in all except Andhra Pradesh. Cereal processing is ongoing
and would be expanded; cotton seed processing would be new and somewhat less
straightforward. The project would also increase National Seed Corporation
(NSC) vegetable seed processing, also an on-going activity. The private sector
is discussed separately (Annex 4).
Cereal Seed Processing 1/
2.        An estimate of national demand for seed of major cereal crops is
presented at Annex 11. It is based on inadequate data and is therefore in-
tentionally conservative. A demand survey has been started to provide
improved data. This should be available when the second phase of the
National Seed Program is appraised. The objective of this first phase pro-
ject (embracing Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Maharashtra) would be to
provide capacity to process cereal seed to meet the estimated incremental
demand through 1978/79. Growth in demand after that time could be met by
additional capacity provided under a second phase project 2/. Table 1 shows
proposed project output through 1980-81. The allocation of cereal seed pro-
duction amongst States is based on:
(i) comparative regional advantage for production of
particular crops;
(ii) balanced diversification of the production base - to
give a risk hedge based on viable corporate operations;
and
(iii) some balancing of inter-seasonal throughput.
3.        The plants currently owned by NSC and State Governments would be un-
able to process either the quantity or the quality of seed to be produced under
the project. New plant capacity would be required in each State. Bridging
capacity would be needed to meet demand from 1976-77 until new plants become
1/   The cereal seed processing equipment would also be used to process seed
of a range of other crops (pulses, oilseeds, Jute, fodder). Seed quan-
tities would be small and have negligible influence on capacity or
design and are ignored.
2/   GOI's National Seed Program will be appraised in phases.  A second phase
appraisal is schedule for second half of 1976.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
operational in 1978-79. Thus under the project the plant capacity neces-
sary to process output would comprise (i) existing plants; (ii) upgraded
plants; and (iii) new plants. Details of plant capacities are at Table 2.
Plant Capacity
4.        The annual throughput of a seed processing plant depends on many
variables, for example:
-    the length and number of the processing seasons;
-    the characteristics of the crops being processed;
-    the number of seed lots being processed that need to
retain their identify by crop, variety, or grower;
-    the instantaneous capacity of machines and conveying
systems;
-    the number of shifts worked;
-    the amount and availability of buffer storage within the
process; and
-    the intake drying capacity for crops that cannot be stored
until they are dried (e.g. paddy).
The project would provide new processing plants of 5,000 m ton and 10,000 m
ton nominal seasonal capacity (para 9). The actual annual throughput of each
existing and new plant would vary with plant location and has been calculated
for the planned volume and mix of crops (Table 1).
Existing Processing Capacity
5.        Processing capacity exists both inside and outside project areas.
During the transition, from scattered NSC contracted production to production
by SSC shareholders in compact areas, all would be used. However, by the end
of the project period, about 1980, only plants in project areas would be in
regular use.
6.        The existing plants were planned for the production of small quan-
tities of primarily foundation seed. As demand for certified seed rose, pro-
duction was increased mainly by installing higher capacity equipment piece-
meal. Most plant sites are now unsatisfactory, with limited space for ex-
pansion, restriced access by road and rail, and buildings not purpose
designed. The maximum production available from these existing plants has
been estimated from current operating data 1/ 2/ and is shown at Table 2.
1/   Operating assumptions:  (i) three shift working; (ii) 20 hrs/day machine
availability; and (iii) maximum machine throughputs.
2/   Operating assumptions used in the design of the new plants are more con-
servative. Throughput and quality are inversely related and old plants
have been over producing because of shortage of capacity.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Some would be phased out because they lie well outside project areas (para 5).
For the rest it is premature to plan their disposal. This should be done
when operational experience is available for all plants, old and new, and
for the production efficiency of different project areas.
Bridging Processing Capacity
7.        Completely new plants could not be brought on stream before early
1978. (Project Implementation Schedule, Annex 9). A bridging operation
would therefore be undertaken to supplement existing processing capacity.
A simple range of equipment would be purchased and located - for the most
part temporarily - at existing plants. Because the range of equipment pro-
posed is limited, seed quality would not be up to the standard expected of
the proposed new plants. It would however be adequate as a temporary ex-
pedient. Because only a limited range of equipment would be purchased there
would be negligible design requirements, specifications would be simple, and
procurement could be swift. Retroactive financing is therefore proposed for
bridging equipment. Details of the equipment, its cost, temporary location
and eventual disposition - mainly to the new plants - are at Tables 3 and 4.
New Processing Plants
8.        Siting.  The following criteria were applied in choosing proposed
sites for the new plants:
-    central to the project area to minimize haulage
distance and facilitate SSC-grower contact;
-    good access by road and, where possible, by rail;
-    a site area of at least 3 ha for plant and warehousing;
-    suitable ground conditions for plant construction and
flood avoidance;
-    available housing and schools for plant staff; and
-    avoidance of noise and dust emission nuisance to
residential areas.
9.        Capacities.  Two plant sizes of nominal seasonal capacities of
5,000 and 10,000 m ton/season are proposed. Actual throughputs would
differ significantly from these nominal capacities (para 4). The choice
of only two plant sizes would allow flexibility to phase expansion, pro-
vide common types and sizes of machinery, simplify the design work of NSC
and SSC, allow common spares for all NSC/SSC plants and simplify the train-
ing of operatives and plant management.
10.       The choice of 5,000 m ton/season nominal capacity is set by the
nominal seasonal capacity 1/ of available high capacity air screen cleaners
1/   Operating assumptions are:  (i) 60 day wheat season; (ii) 2 shift
working.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
(3 m ton/hr). For operating security, two such machines would be used in
the 5,000 m ton plant, however three would suffice in the 10,000 m ton plant.
11.       5,000 to 10,000 m ton per season is an acceptable nominal Apacity
range for reasons of access, management of large plants, seed handling
logistics and the dispersion of processing capacity. Economies of scale
alone are insufficient to justify plants bigger than 5,000 m ton. Process-
ing costs represent from 5% to 15% of retail seed prices. Economies of
scale would reduce the retail price only marginally 11.
12.       Plant Design and Costs.  Proposed plant design is based on the
nucleus module of 5,000 m ton nominal capacity. Plant layout would be such
that (i) expansion from 5,000 to 10,000 m ton could be accomodated without
disturbing processing in the nucleus module; (ii) maximum use could be made
of common facilities.
13.       The principal alternative designs considered were (i) a horizontal
flow plant and (ii) a vertical flow (multi-story) plant. For reasons of
lower capital costs, similar operating costs, greater flexibility, opera-
tional simplicity, Indian experience (Tarai) and the expressed preferences
of NSC staff, the horizontal flow plant was selected as more appropriate to
India's seed industry. A seed flow diagram is at Figure 1.
14.       To use capacity efficiently seed lots should be as large as pos-
sible. Neighboring growers' fields would be planted with the same foundation
seed lot to give larger effective certification units. Samples would be
taken at harvest 2/ before delivery to the plant, and suitable farmers' lots
would be bulked at the plant intake. Seed lots would be resampled at the
weighbridge and tested for germination and cleaning losses, to determine the
basis for payments. For hybrids the ears would be sorted on the farmer's
drying/threshing floor. Growers would be encouraged to use on-farm shellers.
Depending on weather, final drying would be either on-farm or in-plant.
15.       Processing machinery would be of standard manufacture.  Internal
bag transport would be by small hand carts 3/. Drying, and part of the stor-
age capacity, would be provided by 200 m ton silo-dryers ventilated by
portable heaters - one per two silos. Buffer and surge storage capacity
would be installed to smooth flow over 24 hours. Warehouse and silo storage
would accomodate 50% of a season's production, the balance would enter the
distribution chain (Annex 11) 4/. Warehouses would be in 1,500 m ton
1/   From economies of scale, retail prices for wheat could be:  5,000 m ton
- 100%; 10,000 m ton - 99%; and 20,000 m ton - 97.5%.
2/   Tests may be either (i) visual or (ii) germination (full or tetrazolium).
3/   Design would permit the use of fork lifts but they are not justified
at present wage rates.
4/   At some plants there would be additional storage capacity for the
reserve stock scheme (Annex 11). Cold stores for potato seed would be
included in Punjab and Haryana.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
capacity modules to reduce fire risk and to simplify fumigation. Processing
buildings at 5,000 m ton plants would be large enough to house equipment for
10,000 m ton nominal capacity. Additional silos, machinery, and warehousing
would be installed as capacity was increased. Combined cotton and cereal
seed processing plants would use some common equipment and buildings.
16.       Investment costs for the two modules are shown at Table 5; operating
costs and proposed staffing pattern at Tables 6 and 7 respectively.
17.       Design and Procurement.  SSC would contract with NSC for plant
design, preparation of tender documents and procurement and installation of
equipment. Tendering and supervision of civil works contracts would be
handled by SSC or, if they desired, by NSC on their behalf.
18.       NSC has an engineering section with considerable design capability.
However, they have no experience in designing cereal plants of the size or
with the range of equipment proposed. They have no experience of cotton
seed processing. A consultant(s) would therefore be financed under the pro-
ject to assist NSC prepare designs for the two cereal plant modules and for
the cotton plants. Details are at Annex 6. The designs would be submitted
to the Bank for review before tendering commenced.
19.       All equipment would be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding. Civil works contracts would be let after competitive
bidding advertized locally. Individual works would be small and widely
scattered and thus unlikely to attract international firms.
Cotton Seed Processing
Introduction
20.       India plants about 25% of the world's cotton area.  Production,
however, is only about 10% of total world production. Although production
per unit area is low, cotton and cotton by-products contribute importantly
to the Indian economy. Cotton production and related industries are also
major employers of labor. The many problems besetting the cotton industry
in India are analyzed and discussed in the appraisal report of the Integrated
Cotton Development Project (ICDP) (World Bank Report No. 933-IN, September 15,
1975).
21.       Less than 3% of the cotton area in India is planted with genetic-
ally pure seed. Further, improved varieties developed through on-going
research have not spread as rapidly as desirable, mainly because of the
lack of a system for multiplying, processing and distributing seed. The
cotton seed component of the project would interface directly with the
ICDP and be complementary to it.
Present Situation
22.       Of the four States in the project, only Maharashtra has a
significant program for the multiplication and distribution of cotton



ANNEX 3
Page 6
seed of improved varieties. This system primarily involves identification of
"pure" cotton stands, some field inspections, gin clean-up, collecting and
distribution of gin-run seed. There is no processing, cleaning or treating.
23.       The major cotton seed problems in India are:  varietal mixtures at
ginneries; poor germination caused by immaturity, field deterioration and
the pink boll worm; and poor physical quality due to lack of any delinting or
cleaning. Some of the deficiencies in the Indian cotton industry would be
addressed by the ICDP. However full benefits from these efforts could not
be realized unless the production and supply of cotton seed, to the Indian
cotton farmer, is improved. The project proposals below are directed toward
these ends.
Cotton Seed Proposals
24.       General Quality Control Procedures.  Varietal mixing of cotton seed
occurs primarily at the ginneries. Project States - Haryana, Maharashtra and
Punjab - have legislation which permits the establishment of one-variety gin-
neries and one-variety communities, but it is not used. For this project and
the ICDP to succeed, implementation of the legislation would be necessary.
(A covenant to this effect is included in the ICDP Credit Agreement). Pro-
ject States would therefore be required to establish one-variety communities
and ginneries of sufficient area and capacity at the locations and with the
seed outputs given in Table 8. Seed certification coupled with one-variety
communities and ginneries offers the best means of maintaining and assuring
varietal purity. Provisions for developing a certification system for the
quantities of seed proposed in this project are described in Annex 5.
25.       Delinting.  Improvements in the physical, and to some extent the
physiological, quality of cotton seed are impossible without some type of
delinting, to remove part or all of the linters which prevent the free flow
of seed necessary for cleaning and grading. There are two basic methods of
delinting: mechanical delinting - a reginning process with special linter
saw gins - that removes one-half to two-thirds of the linters; and acid
delinting which utilizes acid (sulfuric) or acid gas to dissolve the linters,
leaving the seed in a smooth and free flowing condition. In some cotton
producing areas, mechanical delinting is followed by one or more flame de-
lintings (seed dropped through an intense flame) to singe off loose linters
and further improve flow characteristics. Partial removal of the linters,
by mechanical delinting/flame delinting, improves flow sufficiently for
cleaning with a basic air and screen cleaner, but not sufficiently for
density separations on a gravity table. Acid delinted seed - linters
completely removed - can be cleaned, sized, gravity graded, etc., in the
same manner as maize, sorghum or other kinds of smooth, free flowing seed.
26.       The acid delinting process would be most effective in improving
the quality of cotton seed in India. Gravity grading would remove both
the immature and pink boll worm damaged seed, thus greatly improving
germination. Furthermore, acid delinting effectively controls any remain-
ing pink boll worms and fumigation would not be necessary. However the
acid process is difficult. The technology is not standardized and little



ANNEX 3
Page 7
data is available on its adaptability to various production and climatic
zones. A high level of operational and technical management is required
because the "margin of safety" in terms of seed injury is not wide. Use of
acid (concentrated) also poses safety problems for the personnel involved.
Considerable quantities of concentrated sulfuric acid are also required (1 ton
acid to 2-1/2 to 3 tons of seed) adding considerably to processing costs.
27.       Another problem demands caution before the widespread introduction
of the technology into India. The wet acid process produces an effluent,
the safe disposal of which is difficult. For every ton of seed, about
0.6-0.8 m ton of acid and dissolved linters and 3,000 gallons of wash and
neutralization water are produced. Acid delinting of 1,000 m ton of seed,
would produce about 3 million gallons of effluent, or 400,000 cu. ft.
Dumping the effluent into a stream or river would create serious pollution.
The usual solution is to collect the effluent in a lagoon where it will be
disposed of by percolation and evaporation leaving an acidic sludge. A
lagoon one hectare in size and about 5-6 ft. deep would be required for
delinting of 1,000 m ton of seed in one season. If percolation and evapora-
tion were not sufficient to dry up the lagoon, the following season's
operation would require additional lagoon storage. The lagoon must be
sited so that percolation is not damaging.
28.       Because of the many problems, acid delinting plants are proposed
at only two sites - Hissar and Akola. They would serve as "pilot" units.
If the problems can be satisfactorily resolved, the plant components could
probably be copied in India at a much reduced cost for other sites.
29.       The main delinting method proposed is machine delinting.  A single
or "mill" cut, which removes about 5% by weight of linters (leaving about
5-7% linters by weight on the seed), would be used, rather than the "1st and
2nd cuts" ordinarily used in cotton seed oil extraction operations, because
of the severity of mechanical injury to the seed from the 2nd close cut.
After delinting the seed would be cleaned with an air and screen cleaner
(special 'feed hopper to handle mechanically delinted cotton seed is neces-
sary), treated and packaged.
30.       Following machine delinting with flaming (flame delinting) would
result in a much better physical condition. Flame delinters, however, are
not standardized and those in operation use natural or L-P gas. Research
should be undertaken in India to develop a satisfactory flame delinter
using furnace or fuel oil. This should be possible because good oil-fired
burners for direct-fired dryers are already being manufactured. Applied
research in this area is recommended in the seed technology research
proposals in Annex 1.
31.       Punjab Proposals.  A 3200 m ton (clean seed) cotton seed operation
is proposed for the Mukstar area. The operation would consist of a saw-gin
ginnery - adequate for about 15,000 bales/yr - universal density press, bulk
storage warehousing with partial aeration for conditioning and storage of
gin-run seed before delinting, a four stand machine delinting plant, a



ANNEX 3
Page 8
processing plant (also adequate for 5,000 m ton of wheat in rabi season) and
conveying, loading and unloading accessories. The processing/packaging com-
ponent is similar to the 5,000 m ton cereal module, except that the number of
silos would be reduced from 10 to 4 and the flat storage warehouse would be
designed for aeration of bulk cotton seed and fumigation of both cotton seed
and wheat in bags.
32.       Pending the release of an improved variety (plant breeding would be
supported by the ICDP) the Mukstar plant would serve for two varieties of
cotton - an early maturing variety and a late maturing variety. The plant
would be thoroughly cleaned before changing varieties. (Processing of two
varieties of different maturities is consistent with quality control proposals
at para 24).
33.       Haryana Proposals.  For the Sirsa area a combination cotton/wheat
operation is proposed, similar to that at Mukstar but sized to handle 2,500 m
ton of cotton. Pending release of a new variety this would be 320 F.
34.       The Hissar facility proposed would handle one variety of cotton,
initially H14. A small ginnery is provided (3 stands) but the volume
(2200. bales) is not large enough to justify acquisition of a bale press.
Acid delinting is proposed. The nominal capacity would be about 1.5 m ton/hr.
However, initially there would be considerable down time. Nevertheless, the
plant should do at least 800 - 1000 m ton/season, which is higher than the
programmed target (700 m ton). A one hectare lagoon, 5 ft. deep, is pro-
posed for effluent disposal. Water for washing and neutralization would be
provided by a tubewell and holding tank. The water in Hissar area is
saline and unfit for irrigation but it would be satisfactory for washing
and neutralization of acid delinted seed.
35.       The cleaning/grading unit of the plant would have an air-screen
cleaner with matched capacity gravity table for density grading of the
cotton seed. Fumigation of the acid delinted seed for pink boll work
would not be necessary. However, it may be required to control weevils
that attack acid delinted seed and would therefore be catered for in plant
design. Acid delinted seed should be treated with a fungicide, and perhaps
a systematic insecticide, and necessary equipment would be provided.
36.       Maharashtra Proposals.  The Parbhani facility would handle seed
of desi cotton. Ginning would be done on designated existing gins, with
seed transported to the new plant.  Since seed would be in sacks, a pneumatic
handling system is not proposed. An aeration system for "problem" lots would
be provided. Delinting would be in a 4-stand linter gin. After delinting the
seed would be conveyed via auger conveyor to the processing unit where it
would be cleaned with air-screen cleaner, treated and packaged.
37.       The cotton harvest coincides with that of hybrid cereals there-
fore major economies of combined use are not possible. However, the plant
could be used to a limited extent on rabi crops such as wheat.



ANNEX 3
Page 9
38.       A combination machine and acid delinting facility is proposed
at Akola. Acid delinting would be on a pilot scale. Information and ex-
perience is simply not available to justify a larger risk than a 1000 m ton
pilot operation. The most likely problem is, of course, effluent disposal.
The plant could handle two varieties - one machine delinted, and one acid
delinted - with thorough clean-up before changing variety. A one hectare
effluent disposal lagoon, 5 ft. deep, is proposed. A tubewell, or other water
source sufficient to provide a minimum of 5-6,000 gph, would be needed.
Machine delinted seed would be fumigated in bags in the warehouse. Acid
delinted seed would be fumigated only as needed to control storage pests.
39.       Investment Costs for cotton seed processing equipment are at
Table 9. Operating costs are at Table 6. Design and Procurement would be
handled by NSC as described above (para 17) for cereals.
Training
40.       Lack of experience in cotton seed operations requires that at least
one agronomist or agricultural engineer be programmed for 1-2 months training
in cotton seed processing and handling in a country with a modern cotton seed
industry. Training is costed in Annex 6.
NSC Vegetable Seed Processing
Background
41.       NSC began vegetable seed production in 1964, to provide additional
competition to private sector producers, and to improve price stability. By
1974/75 NSC produced 800 m ton of seed of 60 varieties of 28 species. There
are no data on national production but NSC's share is estimated to be about
10%. However, the NSC share of good quality seed is much greater.
42.       Estimating vegetable seed demand is even more problematic than for
cereals, since there are virtually no data (Annex 11). However it is assumed
that sales volume would be increased by 50%, to about 12,000 m ton, over the
project period. NSC plans to increase its production and market share to
2,800 m ton and 23% respectively. This is considered feasible since NSC
seed would be good quality and would increasingly be of improved varieties
- much of the private sector vegetable seed produced is of poor quality and
traditional varieties.
43.       Because vegetable seed production and processing are more com-
plicated than for cereals, and volume is low, expansion of vegetable seed
production should be undertaken by NSC. Transfer of responsibility for
vegetable seed to SSC during their formative years would unduly burden
management.



ANNEX 3
Page 10
Project Proposals
44.       NSC vegetable seed production would be concentrated in seven areas
selected for their suitability for particular crops. They are:
Area                                 Crop
1.   Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad           Bhindi, F. Beans, Chillies, Brinjal,
Bitter Gourd, Cowpea, Guar, Amaranthus
2.   Himachal Pradesh - Solan            Cauliflower, Cabbage, Radish, Capsicum
and Kelpe
3.   Karnataka, Bangalore                Tomato, Gourds
4.   Kashmir                             Cabbage, Beet, Turnip, Radish, Carrot,
Spinach, Capsicum and Sugarbeet
5.   Maharashtra - Jalgaon               Onion, Dolichos, Bhindi
6.   Punjab - Jullundur                  Radish, Carrot, Turnip, Palak, Methi,
Peas, Bhindi, Cauliflower early and
medium
7.   Uttar Pradesh - Bareilly            Peas, Palak, Methi, Radish, Carrot,
Tomato, Cauliflower early and medium
45.       In order to minimize transport and handling costs it is proposed
that processing be done in two stages. Preliminary processing would be
done at simple plants located in each production area. These would be low
capacity plants because over half of NSC's vegetable seed output would be
of large seeded crops such as peas. These could be processed on con-
ventional machinery at cereal seed plants on a custom basis. Investment in
additional capacity for these crops would not be warranted.
46.       Final processing, packaging and storage would be at two more com-
prehensively equipped centers at Delhi and Hyderabad. The latter would have
drying facilites capable of reducing moisture content to the 5-6% level neces-
sary to ensure good shelf life.   Conditioned storage would also be built to
ensure viability of stocks. To handle the increased throughput it is pro-
posed to install small automatic packaging lines at the two main centers.
This appears justified and has been included in cost estimates. However, the
type of equipment to install, and the most appropriate packaging material,
needs further study.  Provision is therefore included for a consultant to
assist NSC in the design of the two main vegetable seed plants. Details of
proposed investments and costs are at Table 10. Consultants' costs are at
Annex 6.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Processing
Planned Seed Production 1975-81-
(in '000 tons)
1974-75   1975-76  1976-77  1977-78  1978-79  1979-80  1980-81
(Actual)
PUNJAB
Wheat               7.8       10       12.5      15       19       23        25.5
Paddy               1.4        1.4      1.6       1.9      2.1       2.3      2.5
Hybrids             0.1        0        0         0        0        0         0
Cotton               ->        -        -         -        2.0       3.2      3.2
HARYANA
Wheat               6.3       10       13.5      17       22       26        29.0
Paddy                1.7       1.7      2.0       2.3      2.6       2.8      3.0
Hybrids             0          0        0         0        0        0         0
Cotton              -          -        -         -        2.0      3.0       3.0
ANIHRA PRA]ESH
Wheat               0          0        0         0        0         0        0
Paddy               10.8      10.8     12.5      1)4.2    15.5      16.8     18.o
Hybrids              8.8       9.D     10.4      11.8     13        14       14
MAHARASHTRA
Wheat               0          0        0         0        0        0         0
Paddy                0         0        0         0        0         0        0
Hybrids              0.8       1.1      2.2       3.3      4.6       6.1      8.0
Cotton              0          0        0         0        4.5      7.5       7.5
Total Phase I States
Production:
Wheat            14.1      20       26        32       41        49       54.5
Paddy           13.9       13.9     16.1      18.4     20.2     21.9      23.5
Hybrids          9.7       10.1     12.6      15.1     17.6     20.1      22.0
Cotton           -          -        -         -         .5     13.7      13.7
1/ Each SSC would produce a wider range of crops than indicated but crops
minor to the State would not influence plant capacity and are ignored.



ANNEX_3
Table 2
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Processing
Seed Processing Plant Nominal Capacities
(in '000 m ton)
1976/77
Existing                     1980/81
1975/76      Plus            1978/79       Total
Location                    Existing     Interim       New Plants      Project
PUNJAB
Jullundur                   4.0           6.5           5.0           9,0
Ludhiana                    0            0              5.0           7.5 2/
Makstar                     0             0    (Cereals 5.0           5.0
(Cotton  3.2           3.2
Mandegobindgar              4.0           6.5                         4 h.0
Bhatinda                    2.5          5.o            _             0
Annual Actual/Projected                       /
Production - Cereals   11.4          16.9-                        28.0
- Cotton     -             -             -             3.2
HARYANA
Thanespar                   0            0             10.0          10.0
Sirsa                       0            0    (Cereals 5.0            5.0
(Cotton  2.5           2.5
Karnal                      4.0          6.5            0             4.0
Hissar                      5.0           5.0  (Cereals 5.0           5.0
(Cotton   .5            .5
Yamunanagar                 5.0           7.5           0             5.0
Annual Actual/Projected                       1J
Production - Cereals   11.7           19.3           -            32.0
- Cotton     -             -              -            3.0
ANDHRA PRADE;i
Nizamnabad                  2.0           2.0           5.0           5.0
Eluru                       0            0             10.0          10.0
Tanuku                      5.0           7.5           0             5.0
Vijayawada                  4.0           4.o           0             4.o
Hyderabad                   3.5           3.5           0             0
Annual Actual/Projected                        /
Production - Cereals   19.8          26.o -          -            32.0
MAHARASHTRA
Parbhani                    0             2.5  (Cereals 5.0           5.0
(Cotton  2.5           2.5
Akola                       0             0    (Cereals 5.0           5.0
(Cotton  5.0           5.0
Annual Actual/Projected        3/
Production - Cereals    o.8            5.4           -             8.0
- Cotton     -             -              -            7.5
1/ Production projected for 1977/78.
2/ Includes 2.5 transferred from Bhatinda
3/ Production from small units.



INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Processing
Interim Capacity 1976-1978 - Equipment and Disposition
1/                        Sewing     Drying    Portable
Cleaner-'  Treater    Bagger    Machine    Silo         Heater      Relocate 1978
PUNJAB:
Jullundur               1          1           1         1          -          -         To new Jullundur plant.
Mandegobindgar          1                      1         1          -                    To new Ludhiana plant
Bhatinda                1          1           1         1          -          -         To new Mukstar plant.
HARYANA:
Karnal                  1          1           1         1          -          -         To new Thanesar plant
Yamunanagar             1          1           1         1          -                    Remain at Yamunanagar.
ANDHRA PRADESH:
Drying silos remain at Tanuka
Tanuku                  1          1           1         1          4                    Other equipment to new
Nizamabad or Eluru plants.
MAHARASHTRA:
Parbhani                1          1           1         1          -           -        To new Parbhani plant.
Total required             7          7           7         7                      4
F --LJ
1/  3 tons per hour capacity.                                                                                          CD
2/ Paddy capacity 800 tons/season/silo.



ANNEX3
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Processing
Interim Capacity - Investment Costs
(Rs'OOO)
Unit                                Foreign
Item                  Cost        No.         Total       Exchange
* Cleaners                        236         7          1,652           95
* Treaters                         61         7            427           95
* Baggers                          10         7             70           95
* &awing machines                  27         7            189           95
Drying - silos                 139          4            556           15
- heaters                38         4            152           35
Spares (1C%)                                             236          5
Assembly (174)                                           533
Import duty (40% on *)                                   935
Total                                                    4,75o           50



ANNEX 3
mu                                                                                           Table s
NATIONAL SBUD PROJECT
P80CE88S
CAP1SAL COSTS FOR PLANES OF 5.000 AND 10.000 M TONS  8ITON4L SE4A0SAL CAPACITY
11                 -      5.000 I Ton -----_____ ----------10 00O M T                      o        n----------------------------
unit Cot               uIber of Units             Total Cost  % For-  Thanbar of Units              Total Coat        % Foreign
(R. 000)                                          (Rs. 000)   sign                                  (ls. 000)         Exchange
1. Plant Site                                   52/ba                        3ha                   156                      3 ba                     156
2. Buildinas
Intake Pit                                 27.3                        1                     27.3                      2                       54.6
Intaka Souae                               258                         1                     258                       1                       258
Silos - 20 million & Foundations           139                        10                   1,390                      20                     2,780
Proceesing Building                        742                         1                     742                       1                       742
Warehouse 1,500 a tone                     588                          1                     588                      2                     1,180
Workshop                                                                                       73                      1                       103
Laboratory                                                                                    105                      1                       is"
Offices                                                                                        73                                              101
Roads                                                                                          42                                              51.6
Fencins                                                                                       124         _                                    124
Sub-Total             2/                                                                   3,420                                             5,51
Architect's Fea (8%)                                                                          270         _                                    444
Sub-Total                                                                                  3,690          15                                 6,000              15
3. Machinery
Horl-ontal Conveyors
40 N tons/hr x 30M                   86.7                         1                     86.7         30          21/                      173              30
40 M tons/hr with tripper x 55M   188                             1                     188          30          2-                       376               30
40Mtons/hr x 5M                      158                          1                     158          30         2i'                       316              30
20 M tons/hr x 20M                   57.8                         1                     57.8         30          1                        57.8              30
20 K tone/hr x 26M                   74.9                         1                     74.9         30          1                        74.9             30
20 Mtons/hr with tripper x 30K   103                              1                     103          30          1                        103              30
Bucket Elevators
40 M tons/hr x 17M                   47.1                         1                     47.1         35         .2                        94.2             35
20 M tont/hr x 17M                   30.0                         2                      60          35          2                         60               35
10 M tons/hr x 11 M                  16.0                         6                      96          35          9                        144               35
2J
SCalper - 20    ton/hr               80.1                         1                     80.1         95          2                        160              95
Sheller - 20 M ton/br2!              56.1                         1                     56.1         95          1                        56.1             95
bAster                               38.0                         5                     190          30         10                        380              30
Surge Bins - 10 M tons            2/ 11.0                        14                     154          30         20                        220              30
Air-screen cleaners with indentEd
cylinder. - 3 M ton/thr            236                         2                      472          95          3                       708               95
Gravity Cleaner - 1.5 M tons/hr   61.5                            2                     123          95          2                        123              95
Treater - wet2/                      61.1                         1                     61.1         95          3                        183              95
dry 21                    34.8                         2                     69.6         95          3                        104              95
Bagger-weighec-                       9.9                         2                     19.8         95          4                        39.6             95
Sawing Machins2/                     27.3                         2                     54.6         95          4                        109              95
Bag carts                              .3                        20                      6           10         30                         9               10
Bag Conveyor                         23.2                         3                     69.6         30          4                        92.8             30
Sub-Total                                                                             2.227                                              ,583
4. Other Eau.iymnt
Vacuum Cleaner                       10.7                         1                     10.7         25          2                        21.4              25
Bag Clean r                          21.4                         1                     21.4         25          2                        42.8             25
Weigh Bridge - 20 M tons             105                          1                     105          30          1                        105              30
Diesel Generator                     166                          1                     166          30          1                        166              30
D.st Extraction & Cyclones           565                          1                     565          30                                1,066               30
Screening Bing                       17.1                         2                     34.2         30          2                        34.2             30
Transformer Station                   -                           1                     130          40          1                        150              40
Workshop Toole & Equipment            -                           -                     87.6         20          -                        87.6              20
Car                                  33.1                         1                     33.1         25          1                        33.1             25
Light Truck                          88.2                         1                     88.2         25          1                        88.2             25
Fire Fighting Equipsent               -                                                 78           30          -                       105               30
Co.pressor                           13.4                         1                     13.4         40          2                        26.8             40
Laboratory Equipment                  -                           -                     134          30          -                        134              30
Sub-Total                                                                             1,467                                            2,080
5. Spares (101 of equipment)                                                                       368          25                                   569               25
6. Installation & Assmbly (171,)                                                                   645                                               992
7. Total                                                                                         8.553          22                                13,380               22
8. Import Duties                                                                                   340           _                                   540
9. Total with Duties                                                                             8,893           22                               13,920               22
1/ Costs are   FUR at sit..
2/ Iten  sub ect to import duty (40% cif)



INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
SEED PROCESSING
OPERATING COSTS-/
(Rs.fton of Seed)                           3
-------------------------------------Cotton-----___________________________________
- --------------    -----------------------   ------        - -Gin  Run  Seed ------------- -
Wheat        Paddy        Hybrid         Acid Delinting        Mechanical Deliuting         Acid Delinting        Mechanical Delinting
DIRECT
1. Processing Materials         150           150          200                490                       190                       420                   120
2. Electricity                    6             8           10                 50                        50                        30                    30
3. Other Utilities                1             1            1                  2                         1                         2                      1
4. Yuel Oil                      15            30           25                 15                        -                         15                    -
5. Certification Materials       10            20           30                 30                        20                        30                    20
LABOR                            18            18           26                  78                       41                        42                     15
SUPERVISION IN PLANT             26            26           26                  26                       26                        26                    26
MAINTENANCE
1. Machinery and Equipment       5%            5%           5%                10%                        5%                       10%                    5%
2. Plant Buildings              2k%/          2a%          2k%                3k4%                      2k%                       34%                   2k%
11 Based on NSC/TDC experience, adjusted for project areas and facilities.
21 Intake being either gin-run Seed or kapas to be ginned before seed delinting; delinting is either acid or mechanical.
,All



ANNEX 3
Table 7
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Cereals Processing Plant Staffing Pattern V/
Rs. Per
10,000 Ton    5,000 Ton    Month  1/
Plant Superintendent/Engineer               1             1          2,000
Establishment Assistant               1            -             800
Accounts Officer                         1             -          1,000
Account Assistant                     1             1            6to
Records Keeper                        2             1            500
Shift Supervisor                         -             -
Foreman Intake                 3/     1             -            800
Foreman Processing and Drying -       2             2            800
Foreman Warehouse 3/                  1             1            800
Shift Mechanics                       4            4             800
- Labor Non-seasonal(permanent)    10             6             300
- Labor Intake 5/man-months/yr.   240           120             200
- Labor Processing man-months/yr  150           100             200
- Labor Warehouse man-months/yr   100            70             200
- Labor General man-months/yr.      40           40             200
Quality Control Shpervisor               1             1          1,200
Seed Analyst                          2            1             800
Typist                                1             1            400
Drivers                               3             2            300
Watchmen                              2             2            200
Attendants                            4             2            200
1/ For typical processing plant only. (see footnote 5 for hybrids)
A cotton seed processing line based on kapas would require additional
12 man years labor in a cotton ginning/baling section; when intake is
gin run seed, labor needs in processing would be marginally lower.
2/  Seed production officers would assume these positions during the
processing season.
3/ Seed production assistants would provide at least 8 foremen positions.
~I/ Excluding benefits, about 40%.
&'/ 100% additional for hybrid processing.



ANNEX3
Table 8
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Summary of Cotton Seed Proposals
Punjab          Haryana             Maharashtra
Item                         Mukstar      Sirsa     Hissar     Akola     Parbhani
Clean seed m ton              3,200       2,500        500     5000        2,500
Gin-run seed m ton            4,500       3,500        700     7,000        3,500
Bales                         14,400     11,300      2,200        -           -
Ginnery (saw type)          6 stands   6 stands   3 stands       3/           3/
Universal press                yes         yes       no 4/        -           -
Delinting:
- Machine                   4 stands   4 stands        -     6 stands    4 stands
- Acid (wet process)            -           -       700 m ton    -        1,000 m ton
Aerated storage for
cotton seed                 yes        yes         yes       yes         yes
Pneumatic loading,
unloading, bulk seed        yes         yes        yes      no 6/        no 6/
Processing cotton              yes         yes        yes       yes          yes
Processing wheat m ton         5,000      5,000        -          -           -
Fumigation                  Fumigation in warehouse after bagging
1/  Includes complementary handling of 5,000 m ton wheat seed in Mukstar and
Sirsa facilities.
2/ Assumes 30% loss due to rejections, linter removal, and clean-out.
3/  Existing ginneries will be designated as one variety in Akola and
Parbhani areas; only gin-run seed handled.
4/  Bale volume too small to justify press; pressing will be done elsewhere.
5/ Parbhani is programmed for machine delinting 2,500 m ton gin-run seed; and
acid delinting 1,000 m ton in pilot operation.
6/  Gin-run seed at Akola and Parbhani will arrive in sacks.  No bulk loading
and unloading equipment is required.



MUl1
NATiONaL 5132 P10J3CT
Seed Proeosins
Invoetamt Costs of Cotton And Cotto.wbeat Processing Plants
Unit       Ponjb ab             .     Haan                              Kabartra                               Foreign       Fortgn
Unit    Cost        Ihkstar            5irea             Hissr-               kola            Parbbani       Total        achang.e     Exchange
R       No.   R'000       No.   R' 000      No.   Ro000       No.                No.   Rt' O       R'o0O         S           Rj  0
Sites and Civil Norio
Plant site                 Ha.      50.0      3     153.O       3     153.o        5    253.0        3    250.0        5    15o.o
Intake pit                 No.      26.5      1      26.5       1       26.5       -      25.0       -       -         -      25.0
Intake pit bousing                   0.6   400      250.0    400      240.0        -       _         _       _         _       _
Silos, drying, including
foundatiOn              Do.    135.0       -       -         -        -
Processing building        K2        1.0   720      720.0     720     720.0   (in delinhing)       500 (in delinting)500.0
lork shop                  K2        0.3   400      120.0    400      120.0    200        6o.0    200       60.o    200       60.0
Office and laboratory
building                K2        0.5   500      250.0    500       250.0    400      200.0    500      250.0    400      200.0
Kaays and storage shed    K2          ,.1 2,000     i0oo.o  2,020     500.0    600      152.         -        -                -
ainning & preas building   K2         .5   600      40sjo      Bo     400.0    600        00.0
Seed storage warehouses   IC         0.0  20,0O   1,920.0   1)P00   1,440.0   1,200      960.0   3,200   2,560.0   1,600   1,440.0
Baled cotton stcrage       W         0.2   300       60.0    300       60.0    100        20.0       -       -         -       -
Delinting buildirg         K2        0.5   600      300.0    600      300.0    o00       400.0  1,400      700.0    Boo      400.
goods                      -         _               50.0       -      50.0               50.0              50.0              50.0
Tercing                    _         _        _     120.0       _      120.0       -     200.0             200.0             120.0
Effluent disposal pit
(1 ha x Sft)            No.       -        -       _         _        _        1     100.0       1     100.0
Architect's feo (dS)                                3342.0                               214.0             334.0             235.0
Sub-total                                   5,136.0           4,618.0            2,899.0           4,504o.           3,180.0      20,337        15            3,050
Nachinery
Ginnery, saw-gin type-l/                          1,600.0           1,DOO.0              800.0       -       -         -       -        4,000         30            1,200
Bale press V               No.    900.0       1     900.00      1      900.0       -       -         _       -         _       _         1, 8O        95            1,710
K chine .elirting:
P numatic shaker/cleansr No.      05.0      -      65.0       1      65.0        -       -         1      65.o       1      65.0         260        30               7d
Lister gins              No.      50.0      4     200.0       4     200.0        -       -         6     300.0       4     200.0        900         30              270
- Spars saw cylinders      No.      15.0      1      15.0       1      15.O        -       -         1      15.O       1      15.0         00         30               1d
- Conveying system                   LS              87.5              87.5                -               111.0              67.5         373.5      30              112
- Oo_er                    No.    160.0       1     160.0       1     lbOOo        -       *         1     160.0       1     160.0        640         95              boa
- ilectricals              -         -               50.0       -      50.0        -       -         -      75.0       -      50.0         225        10               23
_ Crating and shipping                               5.0                50.0                                60.0               50.0       a2o          -                -
-ossmbly and               _         _              103.0       -    103.0         -       _         -     130.0       -    1D.0           439 
installation (17ii)
SOt-toc                                       730.0             730.0                                916.0             731.        3,107                      1,109
-vid delintings31
- Plant (2 * torn/hr)            1,060        -       _         _       -          1   1,060         -       -         1   1,060         2,120        95            2,D14
- sectricals               Set      87.o      -       _         -                  1      87.0       -       -         1      87.0         174        10               17
- Heavy sheet metal,
spouting and ducting     Set      30.0      -       -          -       -         1      30.0       -       -         1       30.0         nO        10                o
Hea vywnll, 500 gal.
tark, to deliver cid  1         5.O      -       -         -        -         1       5.0       -       -         1        5.0         10        10                I
- Heavy w11,  ,ODO gal.
acid storage tack      0       5O.o      -       -         _        -         1      50.0       -       -         1       50.0        130        1J                1J
- Tubewell and water tart   1      100.0      -       _         _        -         1     100.0       -       -          1     100.0        200        10              27
_ Meta platforming arn
workirg bins          Set      30.0      -       -          -       -         1      30.0       -       -          1      30.0         60        10                6
- Spore parta (10%)                           -       -          -       -         -     195         -       _          -    195           390        10                ;9
Assfebly ond
intafllation (17 S)                     -       -          -       -         -     340         -       -          -     340          odo         -
S.mo-t.tl1                                                                       1,897                                1,497        3,794                      2,11,
Cotton seed aeration,
conveying end unloading
equpmient               -         -              300                300               214                110.0              77.0      1,;x06       55               SS?
Cotton and wheat seed cleaning
treating and pakradng:
- Oonveyors/elevatore      -         -              715                715                 -               270                270        1,970        30               591
- Scalper (m tor/br)   .  No.       78.0      1      78.0        1      78.0                                 M -  1  7d.0       -          234        95               222
- Heater/ian lor
drying bins           No.      4.0       4     160.0        4     160.3                                            -       -          320        30                96
- Serge bins               No.      10.0    10      100.0      10      100.0       -       -         4      40.0        4      40.0        2dO        30                d4
- Air & sorsen cleamnr 4/  No.     210.0      2     420.0        2     420.0       1     210.0       2     420.0        2     420.0      1,690        95             1,d00
- Indent cylinder          No.      72.0      1      72.0       1       72.0       -        -        -         -                -          144        95               136
- Gravity table            No.      60.0      2     120.0        2     120.0       1      60.3        -       -         1      oO.O        360         95              s42
- Treater, slurry          No.      60.0      2     120.0        2     120.0       1      60.0       2      120.0       2     120.0        54.0       95               513
- Bager-wedgher            No.      15.0      2      30.0        2      30.0       1      lS.O       2       30.0       2      30.0        135         9;              128
-ag closr                  N..      26.0      2      52.0        2      52.o       1      26.0       2       52.00                         234                         222
- Spare sewng heas         No.      16.0      1      16.0        1      16.0       1      16.0       1       16.0       1      16.0         d0         91               76
- bag trucks (4-wheel)     No.       0.3    15        4.5       15       4.5      10       3.0      20        6.0      15       4.S         22.5      1i                 2
- Bag conveyor             No.      21.0      3      63.0               63.3       2      12.0        '     63.0        3      61.0        294         25               74
- dighbridge (20 s ton)   No.    105.0        1     105.0        1     105.o       1     125.0       1     105.0        1     105.0        525        25               130
- Diesel generator         No.    165.0       1     165.0        1     165.0       1     165.0       1      165.0       1     165.0        625         30              250
-   Aspiration systa
0/outside cyclones    -         -         -     300.0       -     300.0       -      300.0       -     300.0              oc.,)      1,500        25              375
- Screening bins           No.      15.0      2      30.0        2      30.0       1      15.0        2      3.0        2      30.0        135         30               40
- Transformer station      -         -        -      500.00      -     500,0       -     3000         -      Oi.0      J-3.0             1,900         40             o7
- Jocous claanvr           No.      13.5      2       2D.1       2      20.0        1     10.0        2      20.0       2      20.0         90         25               2S
- bag cleaner              No.      2 .0      1       20.0       1      20 .0)     1      21.0        1      20.0       2      40.0        120         25               30
- Utility vehi le          No.      50.0      2      100.0       2     100.0       1       50.0       2     100.o       2     100.0        450        2D               11)
- Light truck              No.      60.0      1       60.o       1      00.0       1        0.0       1      60.        1      dO.0        410u        25              100
- Hotorcycle               No.       7.0      2       14.0       2      ?4.D       2      14.0        2      14.0       2      14.U          70        25               lo
- Fire & -aety equiprent -           -         -     100.0       -     100.0       -     120.0        -     1o0.0       -     100.)         500        JO              150
- Coeprsssor, air          No.      13.0      2       26.0       2      26.u       1      1j.0        2      26.0       1      l'.0        105         40               LO
- Spare oPrtc (5%)         -          -        -    170.0        -     170.,       -      t0          -     l1         -     117          655
- Assesbly ao
inctollation (17.5%)                      -    600          -     600         -     2MO          -     412         -     410         2.302
-ub-total                                    4,1d0             4,180              1,9o4             2,665             2,670        16,079                      .,125
o-al Ccost                                           12,646            12,328              7,774            .o.00               45Fs55      50,12                      1s,600
3asec on turn-key cost estists psrsded by lonal company.
Bale turnout is toe smell at Hissar to justify press; facilities at Akola and Parbhani do not include ginneries.
Ahid telinting plant inludes intake pit and comeyor, al1 needed elevators (plastic buckets, acid resistant belting),
vealpor with speciea hopper for handling gin ran seed, acid delinting and wash machine, drain auger, vibrating tray dryer and Ieoter.
;-aper and air ani screen machine ust hae separate hopper for feeding sechahnially dlinted cottonseed. Grain seed hopper sill
oc  work, and cottonseed hopper will not work wall for grain seed. Two interchangeable hopper% are requirso.



AM=E 3
INDIA
NATION&L SEED PROJECT
Investment Costs - NSC Vegetable Seed Operation
Foreign      Fcr i gn
Unit    Unit Cost       Total Cost    Ebchange       &change      Year 1   Tear 2   Tear 3
R         No.  ROOO         %           RI000        R'000   RE000 .R'000
Processing Plants
Clipper *                      No        34,60o        7      242        95            230
Fine cleaner *                 No        81,000        7      567        95            540
Indented cylinder *            No        65,000        7      455        95            430
Gravity separator *            No       113,600        7      795        95            755
Accessories (screens,
handling equipment,etc)  *  IS        25,000        7      175        95            165
Associated minor civil works   1S       100,000        7      700        -              _
Packing and Storage
Packaging line                 iS       400,000       2       800        30            240
Air conditioning               LS       400,000        2      o00        30            240
Associated minor civil works   LS        200,000       2      400        -
.,ub-total                                               4,934                    2,600                 2,934    2,000
Customs Duty (40% on imports * )                                 900                       -                    500      40o
Physical Contingency (20%)                                     1.160                      550                   68o      480
Total Investment Cost                                          6,994                    3,150                 4,114    2,880



J)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
__   S <EED  -.  -                   _          _
0000~~~~~~
;~~~~~~~~~~~ - -1   - -                E- -= -  
4-- -- - - - - - - - - -
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
3 hr>:QAi-O0000
t1s    1 -------
2  j   1      1              ; * | 
m                 l| | |    t-~~-~~ ~~~~~~~ ~--L + ?   1  +I 
1                2{ n|   + . 
'~~~~
X2NNY






ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Private Sector
A. Background
1.        Private sector involvement in the seed industry dates back to the
late 19th century. However up to the 1960s it was narrowly based, focusing
almost exclusively on vegetable and flower seed. With the release of hybrid
and HYV cereals in the sixties, private sector operations were expanded
rapidly in pursuit of the easy profits which resulted from the high prices
farmers were prepared to pay for the new seed. The area of certified seed
nationwide grew from 360 ha to 35,000 ha between 1963-64 and 1968-69. Much
of this expansion was in the private sector.
2.        However the boom was short lived.  By the late sixties supply ex-
ceeded demand and many companies withdrew from seed production or went into
liquidation. Most affected were companies dealing in the self-pollenated
crops, wheat and rice. With these crops, unlike hybrids, the initial demand
level was not sustained because- farmers could retain their own seed; farmer-
to-farmer exchange was also common. The early seventies was a period of con-
solidation, followed by further rapid expansion though not at the pace of the
sixties.
B. Present Situation
3.        To assist in project preparation the Agricultural Finance Corpora-
tion (AFC) made a survey of the private sector. The survey indicates that
private sector producers can be grouped in four strata:
(a) the small individual grower producing seed on
family land for a very localized market. There
are probably 1 - 2,000 of these;
(b) the small producer or producer's association
growing seed on 120-200 ha either by contract
or on members' land. Marketing is restricted
to adjacent districts. There are perhaps 250
of these units, many not more than 2-3 years old;
(c) the medium producer or producer's association
growing 1,000-1,500 ha of seed. Production is
usually by contract and may be spread over
several areas and crops in different States.
The seed is usually processed through a simple
plant. Marketing is fairly wide-spread. There
are about 30 such units, most of which have been
in existence for several years; and



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(d) the large scale seed company producing up to 2,500 ha
of seed on contract. There are about six such units.
They have a fairly sophisticated operation, employing
scientific personnel and procedures.
4.        The estimated output of the main crops produced by the private
sector in 1974/75 was:
% of National
Crops                      Production/-(M ton)          Production
Maize                              7,400                    40
Sorghum /2                         8,000                   90
Pearl millet /2                    9,250                   70
Cotton /2                          1,800                  100
Vegetables                         7,900                   90+
/1   Includes non-certified seed.
/2   Mainly hybrid seed.
C. Project Proposals
5.        From the above it can be seen that the private sector plays a
critically important role in the production of seed of hybrid cereals, hybrid
cotton and vegetables. It is proposed that the project support the continued
expansion of the private sector to maintain a reasonable public/private
sector balance and hence the spur of competition. Inclusion of the private
sector in the project would help safeguard it from the discrimination it has
periodically suffered from Governments in the past. This included impeded
seed movement and inadequate access to: breeder and foundation seed, certifi-
cation services, official variety trials, and credit.
6.        The project would assist producers in the three largest size groups
- 3 large, 10 medium and 25 small - the fourth group operates on too small a
scale to warrant support. All relevant activity, from plant breeding through
processing and storage, would be eligible for project financing.
7.        Investment models for the three producer groups were prepared,
by the Working Group, based on the AFC survey data. In addition a more
elaborate investment proposal was prepared by one of the large companies
with AFC assistance. These are the basis for project proposals and cost
estimates. However, unlike the public sector there would be no uniformity
of investment proposals. Thus this component of the project would lend itself
to a credit project approach. Individual proposals would be financed through,
and subject to the scrutiny of, commercial banking channels. In addition all
proposals would be subject to the technical scrutiny of NSC. NSC's engineering
services would be available to give technical guidance to private producers.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
8.        Cash flows and rate of return calculations are not presented
separately for the private sector since they would be similar to those
of SSC. Diseconomies of scale in the private sector would be offset by
lower overhead costs. Commercial bank and NSC scrutiny would ensure
the soundness of proposals accepted for inclusion in the project.
9.        Procurement for the private sector would be left to customer
choice. Individual purchases would be too small, varied and wide spread
to permit bulking for competitive bidding. Most of the equipment would
be small scale, of the types manufactured in India, and which are com-
petitively priced. However, any private producer would be eligible to
participate in the NSC executed bulk procurement should he desire to do so.
Details of project proposals and costs are at Table 1.



IIA
INTIONUL SW PFUWT
Private Sector - Investmnt Costs
Small Corpanies (25)                Conies  (10)           z                                Total        Foreign      Fcr 'gn
Co.      Cost Proj                             ject Cost C             t o    sCo   ost Proc Cost    Yroject Cost  cbange    lkhang.    rear 2  Year 3  Year 4
R'OOO         R'OOO           R'OOO         R'OOO           R'OOO         Roo0_ R'I000                                 RI000       RIOO0   R'OOO    '$000
Research and ktension
Larml purcnase                                                                           625         1,875           1,875            -                         563      937     375
Land development                                                                         175           525             525            15             75         158      262     105
Buildings                                                                                250           750             750            15            110         225      375     150
Slijpment                                                                                100           300             300            40            120          90     150       60
Vehicles                                                                                 700         2,100           2,100            25            5           630   1,050      420
Sub-total                                                                                                                                     830
Processing Plantel/
Lard purchase                                                                             50           150             150            -            -             45       75      30
Buildizgs                   150         3,750              700        7,000            2,000         6,ooo          16,750            -            -          5,025    8,375    3,350
Equipment                   200         5,000             500         5,0o0 O4,000                  12,000          22,000            LO          8,800       6,600   11o,0o    4,400
Vehicles                     50         1,250              200        2,000              -             -             3,250            25            810         975   1,625      650
Mliscellaneous               50         1,250              100        1000               450D        1.300           3550             -             _         1.065    1,775   7.10
Total Investment Costs         450        11,250           1,500        15,000            8,350        25,000          51,250            21         10,440      15,376   25,624  10,250
1/  Nominal capacities per companW are:  small 1 x 500 x ton, medium 2 x 750 m ton, large 2 x 2,500 m ton.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Quality Control
Introduction
1.        National Seed Project success would depend, inter alia, on
rigorous quality control throughout all phases of seed multiplication, pro-
duction, processing, and marketing, to ensure that the genetic, physiologi-
cal and physical qualities of the seed are maintained so that they will
perform well in the farmer's field. Quality control has three important
aspects: establishment of minimum seed quality standards; formulation and
implementation of a system and procedures for achieving and maintaining
these; and a method to identify the causes of quality problems and their
remedy.
Present Situation
2.        India has already taken the major steps toward the establishment
of an effective seed quality control program. The Seeds Act was passed in
1966. The Rules required for implementing the Act were formulated and
promulgated in 1968. Basically the Act prohibits the marketing of seed,
of notified varieties, which do not meet minimum standards for purity and
germination as prescribed by the Central Seed Committee established under
the Act. In addition to determining which varieties shall be notified, the
Central Seed Committee acts as the principal advisor to GOI on implementa-
tion and enforcement of the Act, and all other seed matters.
3.        The Seeds Act provided for the establishment of State seed testing
laboratories. Many States have established and notified an official seed
testing laboratory. Others, however, have chosen to notify the NSC labora-
tory as the official laboratory for their State. Of the four project States,
Maharashtra and Andra Pradesh have well established, notified seed testing
laboratories, although those in Andhra Pradesh need substantial assistance.
The Punjab has a notified seed testing laboratory on the PAU campus, but it
is essentially inoperative due to lack of staff, space, equipment, and a
testing program. Haryana has a small seed testing unit at HAU, but it is
inconsequential. GOI runs a Central Seed Testing laboratory to serve as a
referee in disputes and to check performance of State laboratories.
4.        In terms of quality control, the most important and far-reaching
provisions of the Seeds Act and Rules relate to seed certification. Under
the Act each State is empowered to establish a seed certif[cation agency,
for the purpose of providing a quality control service to seed producers,
and a third party guarantee of the quality of each seed lot. Certifica-
tion is voluntary and applicable only to notified varieties. 'vlininum



ANNEX 5
Page 2
standards for certified seed, and inspection procedures, have been promul-
gated by the Central Seeds Committee. Eight States have established seed
certification agencies. They include Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra.
Punjab and Haryana have notified the NSC as their official seed certification
agency.
5.        Despite the existence of sound, enabling legislation few States
have made adequate progress in seed quality control and market regulation.
Recognizing this GOI has sanctioned a scheme to provide financial assistance
to States to establish independent Certification Agencies. A Central Seed
Certification Board is to be constituted to coordinate certification pro-
grams to ensure interstate uniformity of standards and procedures. The
States' sector of the Fifth Plan includes provision to strengthen State seed
testing laboratories. Finally GOI is considering a proposal to assist States
establish independent control and regulatory agencies. These would enforce
minimum standards and labeling provisions of the Seeds Act, the Fertilizers
Control Order and the Insecticides Act.
6.        Deficiencies in quality control procedures have caused substan-
tial problems in the seed industry. Breeder and foundation seed have not
always been of highest quality, thus contributing to roguing problems and
rejections at the certified seed class level. Testing laboratories have not
been able to render the prompt and accurate services required in a progres-
sive seed industry. In some cases, standards and rules which were workable
and effective in the early stages of seed industry development, have become
cumbersome and act as a constraint on operational efficiency. Thus though
the present situation is far more favorable than it would be in most devel-
oping countries, much remains to be done to develop quality control agencies
with capabilities commensurate with seed industry development targets.
A. Project Proposals
Varietal Release and Notification
7.        Established varietal release policies and procedures are adequate.
Both the Central and State Varietal Release Committees, however, should es-
tablish mechanisms for declaring varieties obsolete (de-notification) when
they are replaced by superior varieties of similar adaptability. Private
breeders are developing new varieties and these will be submitted to the
Varietal Release Committees and Central Seed Committee for consideration
of notification. These varieties should be considered on their merits with
no discrimination with regard to source.
Breeder Seed
8.        Breeder seed production is discussed in Annex 1.  However, since
the quality of breeder seed has been a source of recurring problems in the
seed industry, the following recommendations pertaining to quality control
are made:



ANNEX 5
Page 3
(1) The originating breeder should describe the variety
as accurately as possible. Particular attention should
be given to detailing those characteristics useful to
field and seed inspectors in identifying varieties. The
description should not just encompass average characteris-
tics but should also establish the limits of variability
of the principal characteristics, and describe all real
variants (off-types) and their incidence in the population.
(2) Varietal maintenance and trueness-to-variety of breeder
seed should be closely monitored by a committee comprising
the breeder and representatives from ICAR, NSC, and the
foundation seed and Certification Agencies from the State
in which the breeder seed are produced.
(3) ICAR should maintain in cold storage an authenic stock
(1-2 kg.) of notified varieties to serve as a reference for
quality control of breeder seed production. The releasing
institution should also maintain a stock of authenicated
breeder seed in cold storage to serve as a duplicate and
immediately available reference.
Foundation Seed
9.        The essential task of the seed programs is to multiply breeder
seed up to the quantity required for large scale seed production while main-
taining the highest standards of varietal purity. Use of high quality
foundation seed virtually eliminates seed production problems related to
varietal impurity. Rigorous precautions, therefore, must be taken to
maintain varietal purity during foundation seed production. Precautions
include: careful selection of land; isolation as required; thorough clean-
up of all harvesting, drying, cleaning and packaging equipment and storage
facilities; and maintenance of complete and accurate records on each lot
of foundation seed produced.
10.       To ensure highest quality of foundation seed, the following
actions are recommended:
(1) Each foundation seed unit should formulate and implement
policies and procedures for maintaining varietal purity
of the species of seed handled. No deviation from
policies or procedures should be tolerated.
(2) The originating breeder or his replacement should be
requested to periodically visit foundation seed pro-
duction fields and make such inspections as he deems
necessary.
(3) All foundation seed production should be under official
seed certification and subjected to periodic inspection
by the most experienced inspectors of the Certification
Agency.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
(4) Post-control field trials should be made on all foundation
seed lots produced to determine varietal purity. These
plots should observed by the originating breeder and cer-
tification inspectors as well as by foundation seed per-
sonnel. Foundation seed post-control plots will also
serve as "pre-controls" for certified seed production.
Problem lots can usually be identified in advance of
regular certified class inspection and actions taken
accordingly.
State Seed Corporations
11.       The SSC would be the major seed producers in project States.
Although the seed would be produced under certification the SSC would not
rely entirely on certification for quality control. Each would establish
its own internal quality control program. A quality control section would
be established at SSC headquarters.  To ensure objectivity it would be in
the Marketing Division since this would not be responsible for seed handling,
hence could not effect quality. The section would formulate and implement
quality control procedures applicable to all operations - production through
distribution. It would have a small laboratory at headquarters. In addition
sub-units would be established at processing plants, they would also be
equipped with testing laboratories. For field work staff of the Production
Division would be used but procedures and quality control administration
would remain with the Quality Control Section of the Marketing Division.
Costs of headquarters laboratories are included in SSC investments at Annex
12, plant laboratories are costed with plants at Annex 4.
Seed Certification
12.       Seed certification services have not yet been organized in Haryana
and Punjab; certification agencies are operative in Andhra Pradesh and Maha-
rashtra within the State Department of Agriculture. Haryana and Punjab would
establish, staff, and equip State Seed Certification Agencies (SSCA). They
would be registered under the Societies Registration Act of 1960. After
organization, the SSCA would be officially notified as provided for in the
Seeds Act. The certification agencies in Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra
would be re-organized and also registered under the 1960 Act. Each SSCA
would have a central headquarters and several field stations (usually two).
The latter would be located in the compact areas. The Agency would station
at least two inspectors at each major processing center to make necessary
inspections and control the packaging and tagging of seed. These inspectors
would work closely with the quality control units of the SSC.
13.       After establishment and re-organization, each SSCA would initiate
an in-service training program in cooperation with NSC and the State Agri-
cultural University. The varietal evaluation plots of the Agricultural Uni-
versity and the post control plots of the foundation seed program would be
used for training in varietal identification and general field inspection
procedures.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
14.       The Agencies would cooperate with foundation seed programs in post
control trials of all foundation seed lots, which would also serve as pre-
control plots for certified seed. They would also institute post control
trials of certified seed lots selected at random up to 20% of the total
number of lots certified. These post control trials could be carried out
on Agricultural University farms under a memorandum of agreement.
15.       Certification regulations and standards must be realistic and
reflect the growth and modernization of India's seed industry. Processors
would be allowed to bulk seed of different growers that are of the same
variety and from the same lot of foundation seed so as to permit efficien-
cies in processing operations. The minimum standards for certification and
inspection procedures adopted by each Agency would meet or exceed those es-
tablished by the Central Seed Committee. The testing of seed, as required
for certification, would be done by the State Seed Testing Laboratory under
a memorandum of agreement establishing testing priority and fee.
16.       GOI has agreed to create the Central Seed Certification Board (CSCB)
with composition satisfactory to the Bank, before negotiations (para 5). It
would be responsible for coordinating the work of the State Seed Certification
Agencies and monitoring operations to ensure uniformity of standards, rules
and procedures.
17.       SSCA Agency investment costs are shown at Table 1.  A typical Agency
staffing pattern is at Table 2. Anticipated operating costs and revenues are
at Tables 3-6. The Agencies would operate at a deficit for one or two years
until work volume increased; these deficits would be covered by the project.
Seed Testing
18.       Efficient and accurate seed testing is vital to quality control in
a seed industry. Well staffed and equipped laboratories are required to pro-
vide the three essential testing services: for the Certification Agency; for
farmers and non-certified seed producers; and for seed control to determine
compliance with labeling requirements prescribed in the Seeds Act. Usually
one good laboratory per State would suffice.
19.       Haryana would construct, staff, equip and notify a seed testing
laboratory. The Punjab Laboratory at PAU would be renovated, expanded, re-
equipped and adequately staffed. The two laboratories in Andhra Pradesh
would be re-organized so that the laboratory at Tadepalligudem became an
outstation sub-ordinate to the laboratory at Rajendranagar. The two would
be renovated, expanded, re-equipped and adequately staffed.
20.       The State seed testing laboratories would give priority to tests
for the Certification Agencies. The seasonally excess testing capacity
would be used to expand testing for enforcement of the labeling provisions
of the Seeds Act, and to step up testing of farmer saved seed. The Central
Seed Testing Laboratory would continue to develop and standardize seed test-
ing procedures and monitor the performance of the State laboratories.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
21.       Investment costs for establishing and/or strengthening seed test-
ing laboratories are given in Table 7.
Training
22.       India is fortunate to have a small cadre of well trained seed spe-
cialists. These would be used to maximum advantage to train the greatly
expanded staffs envisioned in the project. Much of the training required
can be given in India, especially by NSC and at TDC. A few key individuals,
however, would be programmed for observational tours of pertinent seed facil-
ities and agencies in the developed countries. Details are at Annex 6.
Technical Assistance
23.       Present recording and accounting procedures are not adequate for
the planned certification work load of SSCA. Improved procedures are neces-
sary to safeguard quality control per se and for cost control to maintain
financial viability. A consultant would be provided, through CSCB, to assist
SSCA develop improved procedures. Proposed terms of reference and costs are
at Annex 6.



INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
QUALITY CONTROL
1/
PSCA: INVESTMENTS
(Rs.000)
____________________-YEAR----------------------------
-____1_-___-          -----2------           ------3               ------4-----                        % Foreign
Unit        Unit Cost          No.        Rs.         No.        Rs.        No.        Rs.        No.        Rs.        Total         Exchange
A. HEADQUARTERS
2
Office building                             M              0.6            -           -          370        222          -          -          -          -         222
Garage                                      M2             0.35           _           _           40         14          -          -          -          -          14
Site and services                      (15% of bldg.        -             --                      -          35          -          -          -          -          35
cost)
Office equipment                            -               -             -           30          -          20          -          20         -          -          70
Label and tag printer                       No.           55              _           -            2        110           1         55         -          -         165              70
Vehicle w/trailer                           No.           60               1          60          -          -           -          -          -          -          60              25
Car                                         No.           30                1         30          -          -            1         30         -          -          60               25
Motorcycles                                 No.            7                1          7          -          -            1          7         -          -          14               25
Architect's fee (8%)                        _-                                                    -          19          _-                    -          -          19
Subtotal                                                                   127                   420                    112                    -         659               20
2/
B. FIELD OFFICES-
Office equipment                             -              -              -          15          -          15          -          10         -          -          40
Inspection and sampling equipment           Set            0.5            20          10          -          -           16          8          8          4         21.5
Vehicle w/trailer                           No.           60                1         60           1         60          -          -          -          -         120               25
Motorcycle (1/inspector)-                   No.            7               20        140           -         -           15        105          8         56        301               25
Subtotal                                                                   225                     75                    123                    60        483              20
C. BASE COST                                                                             352                    495                    235                    60      1,142              20
Contingencies:
Physical                                                                    18                     25                     11                     3         57              20
Price                                                                        7                     45                     32                    15         99              30
TOTAL PSCA INVESTMENTS                                                     377                    565                    278                    78      1,298              21
1/ For Punjab; For other SCAs, major difference would be number of motorcycles;  about 50 for Haryana, 75 for Andhra Pradesh and 105 for Maharashtra.
2/ Two field offices.
3/ Total costs for Haryana are Rs.1.36M, for Andhra Pradesh Rs.1.55M, and for Maharashtra Rs. 1.8M, taking into ac.:ount additional motorcycles.



ANNEX 5
Table 2
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Quality Control
SGA: Staffing Pattern-/
Annual
- - - - - Year - - - - -        Cost
1     2     3     4      5    (Rs.OOO)
Headquarters
Director                     1      1     1     1      1       28
Chief Inspector              1     1      1     1     1        21
Senior Seed Officer          1     1      1     1     1        16
Field & Seed Inspectors      1     1      2     2      2       12
Accounts Officer             1      1     1     1      1       14
Senior Clerk                 1     1      2     2     2         8
Steno Typist                 2     2      3     3     3         6
Driver                       1      2     2     2      2        5
Watchmen and Attendants      2      2     3     4      4        4
Field Offices
Seed Officers           1/   1     2      2     2     2        16
Field & Seed Inspectors-    -       -     -     -      -       12
Sehior Clerk                 1     2      2     2      2        8
Steno Typist                 2     4      4     4      4        6
Driver                       1     2      2     2      2        5
Watchmen and Attendants      2      4     4     4      4        4
Total Annual Cost (Rs.OOO)    172   228   258   261   261
(excluding seed
inspectors)
1/ For typical SCA; main difference between SCA would be in the number
of seed inspectors. In year 5 Andhra Pradesh would have 75; Haryana
51; Maharashtra 105; Punjab 43 (one inspector per 225 ha hybrids or
300 ha self-pollinated crops)',



ANNEX5
INDIA                                     Table 3
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
QUALITY CONTROL
APSCA: OPERATING COSTS & REVENUES
(Re. 000)
_ ___________________---YEAR&-----------------------
i/      Conatant Mid 1976 Prices
l(kYr)         2        3         4         5         6ff
A. OPERATING COSTS
2/
Salaries:
Staff Salaries          80             172      228       260       260        260
Field & Seed Inspec-
tors                 250            560       675       765       825       900
3/
Office Rental & Supplies       15             37        42        35        35        35
Certification Supplies4/       30             90       105       115      120        130
Travel Allowance5/             40             95       105       130      140        150
Vehicle Operation and
Maintenance6/                30             65        75        90      110        120
Pre and Post Control Plot
Work7/                       -              -          4         6         6          7
Utilities & Services            5             10        18        25        28        28
Total Operating Costs 450           1,030    1,252    1,426    1,524         1,630
B. REVENUES
1. Certification Fees:
a) Paddy                60             200      265       290       315        340
b) Hybrids             200             815      945    1,020    1,080        1,120
2. Tags, label sales           50            225       260      285       300        320
Total Revenues         310          1,240    1,470    1,595    1,695         1,780
C. OPERATING SURPLUS
(DEFICIT)                    (140)           210       218       169      171        150
D. PROJECT COST TO COVER
DEFICIT                       140
Physical Contingencies 10Z   15
10 /
Price Contingencies             5
APSCA Operating Deficit
in Project Costs            160
1/ Year 1 includes last half of 1976 and thus revenues are for kharif seed crop certification only.
2/ Salaries, from Table 2,  excluding inspectors salaries which are SCA specific; APSCA, by
year 5, has 75 field and seed inspectors.
3/ After year 2, SCA stops renting except for field offices.
4/ Tags, seed tables and forms @ Rs. 4/ton.
5/ 125 days/inspector/yr. @ Rs. 15/day; plus 100 days for HQ staff.
6/ Jeep at Rs.1/mile for 5,000 miles; and motorcycle @ Rs. 0.3 per mile for 4,000 miles.
7/ Rs. 2,000/ha for about 2-4 ha annually.
8/ Rs. 50/ha for cereals and cotton; Rs. 80/ha for hybrid s, vegetables, potatoes. Mostly SSC
growers, but 10'/ additional for others in (b). Only paddy, jowar, bajra and maize are
considered here.
9/ Rs. 10/ton.
10/ At 7% p.a.



Table 14
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
QUALITY CONTROL
HSCA: OPERATING COSTS & REVENUES
(Re. 000)
----------------------YEAR---------------------------
1/     Constant Mid 1976 Prices
l(0yru         2        3         4         5         6ff
A. OPERATING COSTS
2'
Salaries:
Staff Salaries                  80         172        228      258       260        260
Field & Seed Inspectors         80         240        350      445       540        610
3/
Office Rental & Supplies            15          38         35        35        35         35
Certification Supplies4/             6          70         70       150       185       223
Travel Allowance5/                  15          42         45        75        90       100
Vehicle Operation and
Maintenance6/                    15          35         45        66       80         91
Pre and Post Control Plot
Work7/                           -           -           4         6         7          8
Utilities & Services                 4          13         18        25        28         28
Total Operating Costs          215         610        795    1,060    1,225       1,355
B. REVENUES
8/
1. Certification Fees:
a) Cereals & Cotton             30         430        690      890    1,010       1,080
b) Hybrids, potato and
others                       -           40        100      180       200        220
9/
2. Tags, label sales                17         190        250       295      325        350
Total Revenues                  47         660      1,040    1,365    1,535       1,650
C. OPERATING SURPLUS (DEFICIT)        (168)        50         245      305       310        295
D. PROJECT COST TO COVER DEFICIT    168
Physical Contingencies 1O7/    17
10/
Price Contingencies              6
HSCA Operating Deficit in
Project Costs              191
1/ Year 1 includes last half of 1976 and thus revenues are for kharif seed crop certification only.
2/ Salaries, from Table 2,   excluding inspectors salaries which are SCA specific;
HSCA, by year 5, has 51 field and seed inspectors,
3/ After year 2, SCA stops renting except for field offices.
4/ Tags, seed tables and forms @ Rs. 4/ton.
5/ 125 days/inspector/yr. @ Rs. 15/day; plus 100 days for HQ staff.
6/ Jeep at Rs. 1/mile for 5,000 miles; and motorcycle @ Rs. 0.3 per mile for 4,000 miles.
7/ Rs. 2,000/ha for about 2-4 ha annually.
8/ Rs. 50/ha for cereals and cotton; Rs. 80/ha for hybrids , vegetables, potatoes. Mostly SSC
growers, but 101  additional for 6thers in (b).  Only wheat, paddy and cotton are
considered here.
9/ Rs 10/ton.
10/ At 7% p.a.
March 22, 1976



INDIA                                 ANNEX 5
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT                         Table
QUALITY CONTROL
1/
MSCA: OPERATING COSTS & REVENUES
(Rs. 000)
---------------------------YEAR--------__-_________
2/      Constant Mid 1976 Prices
2        3         4         5        6ff
A. OPERATING COSTS
Salaries:
Staff Salaries                 30            80        80        90       95         95
Field & Seed Inspectors        70            275      510       775      850        950
4/
Office Rental & Supplies           10             30        35       35        35         35
Certification Supplies5t            5             25       45        50        55         60
Travel Allowance6/                 35            110      140       180       190       200
Vehicle Operation and
Naintenance7/                  30             80      110       140       150       150
Pre and Post Control Plot
Work8/                         -              -         4         6         6         8
Utilities & Services                5             10        18       25        28         28
Total Operating Costs        185            610       942    1,301    1,409       1,526
B. REVENUES
9l
1. Certification Fees:
a) Cotton                     150           355       515       750       750       750
b) Hybrids                     95            310      320       625       720       800
10/
2. Tags, label sales               30             65      110       135       145        150
Total Revenues               275            730    1,145    1,510    1,615        1,700
C. OPERATING SURPLUS (DEFICIT)        90            120       203      209       206        174
D. PROJECT COST TO COVER DEFICIT   0.0
11 MSCA preproject has about 30,000 ha of certification activity; this analysis is only to
study the impact of the project.
21 Year 1 includes last half of 1976 and thus revenues are for kharif seed crop.certification
only.
1 Salaries, from Table 2,   for field staff only; these exclude inspectors salaries which are
SCA specific; MSCA by year 5 would need additional 100 field inspectors.
4/ After year 2, SCA stops renting except for field offices.
5/ Tags, seed tables and forms @ Rs. 4/ton.
61 125 days/inspectorlyr @ Rs. 15/day; plus 100 days for HQ staff.
7/ Jeep at Rs.l/mile for 5,000 miles; and motorcycle @ Rs. 0.3 per mile for 4,000 miles.
8/ Rs. 2,000/ha for about 2-4 ha annually.
9/ Rs. 50/ha for cereals and cotton; Rs. 80/ha for hybrids, vegetables, potatoes. Mostly SSC
growers, but 107. additional for others in (b). Only wheat, paddy, potato, cotton are
considered here.
10/ Rs. 10/ton.



INDIA                                       ANNEX 5
Table6
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
QUALITY CONTROL
PSCA: OPERATING COSTS & REVENUES
(Rs. 000)
-----------------YEAR---------------------------
1/   Constant Mid 1976 Prices
1(4yr)   2         3         4         5         6ff
A. OPERATING COSTS
Salaries:
Staff Salaries                 80      172       228      258       260        260
Field & Seed Inspectors        80      240       240      428       468        516
3/
Office Rental & Suppli 4e           15      37        42        35        35         35
Certification Supglies-              8      74        77       137       160        185
Travel Allowance-                   15      42        45        75        85         85
Vehicle Operation and
Maintenance 6/                 10       35        46        64        73        78
Pre and Post Control Plot
Work 7/                             -       -          4         6         6          8
Utilities & Services                 4      10        18        25        28         28
Total Operating Costs         212      610       700    1,028    1,115       1, 195
B. REVENUES
8/
1. Certification Fees:
a) Cereals & Cotton            25      415       530       770      950      1,020
b) Hybrids, potato and
others                      -        40       60       100       120        150
9/
2. Tags, label sales               14      180       220       285       340        380
Total Revenues                 49      635       810    1,155    1,410       1,550
C. OPERATING SURPLUS (DEFICIT)       (172)      25      110       127       295        35
D. PROJECT COST TO COVER DEFICIT   172
Physical Contingencies 10%   17
10/
Price Contingencies             6
PSCA Operating Deficit in
Project Costs              195
1/ Year 1 includes last half of 1976 and thus revenues are for kharif seed crop
certification only.
2/ Salaries, from Table 2,    excluding inspectors salaries which are SCA specific; PSCA,
by year 5, has 43 field and seed inspectors.
3/ After year 2, SCA stops renting except for field offices.
4/ Tags, seed tables and forms @ Rs.4/ton.
5/ 125 days/inspector/yr. @ Rs. 15/day; plus 100 days for HQ staff.
6/ Jeep at Rs.l/mile for 5,000 miles; and motorcycle @ Rs. 0.3 per mile for 4,000 miles.
7/ Rs. 2,000/ha for about 2-4 ha annually.
8/ Rs. 50/ha for cereals and cotton; Rs. 80/ha for hybrids, vegetables, potatoes. Mostly SSC
growers, but 10% additional for others in (b). Only wheat, paddy, potato, cotton are
considered here.
9/ Rs. 10/ton.
10/ At 7% p.a.



INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
QUALITY CONTROL
STATE SEED LABORATORY: INVESTMENTS
(Rs.000)
___________--- YEAR --------------                            % Foreign
1          2           3           4           Total           Exchange
Renovation & Expansion of Existing Labs                                       200          -           -            200               -
Air-conditioning and dehumidification of sample storage room    -               60         -           -             60               25
Air-conditioning equipment and metal cabinets for two
germination rooms                                                           40          -           -             40               25
Purity Analysis Equipment                                                      60          -           -             60               75
Germinators, cabinet t ye                                                       70         -           70           140               75
Special Test Equipment-                                                        60          -           30            90               75
Repair of Existing Equipment                                                    30         -           -             30               25
Office Equipment                                                               50          -           _             50               _
Vehicle (Jeep)                                                                  50         _           -             50               25
Sub-Total                                                  620          -          100           720               36
Contingencies:
Physical@ 5%                                          -           30          -            5            35               36
Price 4/                                              -           53          -           27           80                45
TOTAL                                            -         703          -          132           835               37
aS         ss=                     === = .
1/ For Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab; no investments proposed for Maharashtra.
For existing seed testing labs at PAU in Ludhiana, in Karnal, and at APAU in Rajendranagar.
3/ Health, moisture, vigor and quick test.
4/ For civil works 8% for 1976 and 10% for 1977 onwards; for equipment (local) 7% p.a. ; for equipment (foreign) 10% and 8%                     a 
for 1976 and 1977 respectively, and 7% for 1978 onwards.                                                                                    CD



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Training and Technical Assistance
Training
Seed Technology Research
1.        Development of seed technology research as proposed would require
staff with in-depth training in seed related research techniques and proce-
dures. This type of training can best be accomplished through a graduate study
program in an established seed technology curriculum in one of the developed
countries. The project would therefore provide finance for one candidate
from each of the five participating Agricultural Universities to undertake
an advanced degree program in the USA, Europe or Australia.
Processing
2.        Cereal seed processing would be considerably expanded, necessita-
ting training of plant managers and operatives. This would be done at exist-
ing NSC and TDC facilities. Costs would be met out of normal SSC operating
budgets.
3.        Cotton seed processing would be a new activity for which training
could not be given wholly in India. One processing engineer from each plant
handling cotton seed would be sent on a two month study tour to the USA to
familiarize themselves with modern cotton seed processing operations. On
return to India they would then be responsible for on-the-job training
of plant operatives assisted by the consultant (para 8).
4.        NSC would be responsible for providing technical services to the
seed industry. To ensure that the responsible engineers were fully abreast
of latest technology, two would be sent on a two month tour to study opera-
tions in developed countries.
Quality Control
5.        With the expansion of certification and seed testing activity
considerable staff training would be necessary. Most of this could be
given in India, using mainly NSC and TDC staff and facilities. Costs could
be borne out of normal operating budgets. Proposed training in India is:



ANNEX 6
Page 2
the Chief Inspector and Senior Seed Officer of each
certification agency should be programmed for 4 weeks
on-the-job training with counterparts at TDC and NSC;
-    the seed testing officer and two seed analysts from
each State testing lab should be programmed for 4 weeks
on-the-job training with the NSC and Central Seed Test-
ing Laboratories; and
-    the quality control officer and assistant quality control
officers of each SSC should be programmed for 4 weeks
on-the-job training with TDC and NSC counterparts.
After completion of training these officers would establish and conduct
training courses for their junior staff.
6.        In addition to the above, it is proposed that the Director or Chief
Inspector of each SCA, and the Senior Seed Testing Officer of each State test-
ing laboratory, undertake a months observational tour of established certifi-
cation agencies and seed testing stations in Australia, Europe or the USA.
This would familiarize them with up-to-date procedures, management systems
and equipment and improve subsequent performance in expanding activity and
training staff.
Technical Assistance Seed Technology Research
7.        Interdisciplinary seed technology research programs would be devel-
oped at five Agricultural Universities. Because this would be a new activity
a specialist would be provided for two months to advise Universities on
program planning and the facilities to be developed. The specialist would be
a senior staff member from an established seed techology program.
Processing
8.        NSC would be responsible for the design, inter alia, of SSC pro-
cessing plants. NSC engineers have developed a number of cereal seed plants
but none of the size, and with the range of equipment, proposed for SSC
plants. They have no experience of cotton seed processing. A specialist(s)
would be engaged to assist NSC engineers prepare designs for the two pro-
posed cereal plant modules and for the cotton seed processing units. (Since
two of the plants are combined cereal/cotton units, every attempt would be
made to employ one specialist conversant with both cereals and cotton).
This would require a three month assignment. The specialist would be en-
gaged for a further two months when the cotton plants had been constructed to
help commission them and train staff in the operation.
9.        A second specialist would be engaged for one month to advise NSC
on the most appropriate materials and equipment for packaging vegetable
seed.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Quality Control
10.       India has the technical expertise to expand quality control opera-
tions. However administrative procedures have received little attention.
Given the intent to decentralize certification from NSC to State Agencies
technical assistance would be required to develop satisfactory administra-
tive procedures. The Central Seed Certification Board would engage a
specialist for two months to assist State Agencies in this area.
Marketing
11.       A major element of NSC's future role in the development of the
seed industry would be marketing - embracing demand assessment, distribution
and sales, and promotion of the use of quality seed. Hitherto, in a seller's
market, NSC has only focused on distribution and sales. Consultants would
be engaged to help NSC reorient its marketing efforts, to develop and run
staff training programs and to update the ongoing demand survey. It is ex-
pected that there would be Indian firms with marketing expertise qualified
to undertake these assignments.
Terms of Reference and Costs
12.       Proposed terms of reference for consultancies are at Appendix 1,
training and technical assistance costs are at Table 1.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference
1.        The Government of India is engaged in the reorganization and ex-
pansion of the seed industry under a National Seed Program. A project which
would implement the first phase of the NSP has been submitted to the World
Bank with a request for financial assistance.
2.        The proposed project would be concerned mainly with major cereal
crops - wheat, rice, maize, sorghum and pearl millet - and cotton. It would
support all facets of seed production, from breeder and foundation seed pro-
duction through certified seed production, processing, storage and marketing.
In particular and inter alia, the project would:
-    establish State Seed Corporations in Andhra Pradesh,
Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab for the production and
processing of certified seed. Major investments would
be for seed processing plants;
-    develop seed technology research capabilities at several
Agricultural Universities;
-    establish and equip State Seed Certification Agencies;
-    provide processing and packaging equipment for the
National Seed Corporation's vegetable seed operations;
and
-    strengthen the National Seed Corporation's marketing
operation including gathering demand data.
In addition the project would finance technical assistance specialists to
assist in the above areas. Resume's of appropriate qualifications and job
descriptions follow.
Cereal and Cotton Processing Plant Design
Qualifications
3.        Consultant must have minimum of 10 years experience in the design
and installation of seed processing plants and facilities as commonly re-
quired for cereal and legume seed, and for cotton seed. As used here



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 2
processing encompasses receiving (intake), conveying and handling, drying,
aeration, bulk storage, cleaning, grading, treating, packaging, and flat
storage operations for cereal and legume seed, and, in addition, handling
and conveying, cleaning, bulk storage, aeration, mechanical delinting,
acid delinting, drying, cleaning, grading, treating, packaging, flat
storage and fumigation of mechanically delinted and acid delinted cotton
seed.
Job Description
4.        Consultant would be engaged by the National Seed Corporation.
Consultant would prepare for technical assistance in India by thorough
review of the India National Seed Project, especially the Annex on Seed
Processing, and gather together references, designs and other informational
materials and data as needed for activities specified below.
5.        Consultant would require two assignments in India.  The first would
be for 90 days to serve as technical advisor on seed processing facilities to
the Engineering Division, National Seed Corporation (NSC), New Delhi. In-
ternal travel would be undertaken as needed to accomplish objectives.
6.        During first assignment in India consultant would:
(a) review all proposals for seed processing facilities in
the National Seed Project to assess their validity and
adequacy, and recommend revisions and modifications in
details of proposals as might be necessary to accomplish
objectives of each facility;
(b) advise the NSC on the layout and design of proposed seed
plants and facilities to include:
(i) efficient arrangement of buildings and facilities
at each plant site;
(ii) layout and arrangement of equipment and machinery
within each building; and
(iii) dimensions and general construction features of
buildings needed to house the several operations
at each plant site.
NOTE: Architectural and structural engineering
services would be separately provided.
(c) advise the NSC on selection and specifications of all
equipment and machinery needed; and
(d) assist the NSC in the preparation on specifications for civil
works and international tenders for equipment.
7.        The second or follow-up assignment would be scheduled after civil
works are completed and equipment has been received. Its purposes would be



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 3
to advise on installation of equipment, and to check and demonstrate opera-
tion of acid delinting plant for cotton seed. Period of the assignment
would be 60 days. More specific objectives for second assignment would be
formulated after completion of first consultation.
Development of Seed Technology Research Programs
Qualifications
8.        Consultant must have a post graduate qualification in agricultural
science, preferably at the doctoral level. He must have considerable ex-
perience of seed technology research with at least five years in a senior
position in a seed technology research program.
Job Description
9.        Consultant would be engaged by the Indian Council for Agricultural
Research. Consultant would prepare for the assignment by thoroughly re-
viewing the India National Seed Project and related reports.
10.       Consultant would spend 60 days in India to advise the Indian
Council for Agricultural Research and five Agricultural Universities (Andhra
Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab State Universities and the Akola and Parbhani
Universities in Maharashtra) on the design of inter disciplinary seed tech-
nology research programs at these Universities. Consultant would also advise
on necessary staffing and facilities to operate the programs.
11.       Consultant would visit all Universities and present his final
recommendations in the form of a written report.
Improving Administrative Procedures
of State Certification Agencies
Qualifications
12.       Consultant would have a minimum of 10 years experience in seed
certification in the United States, Europe or Australia-New Zealand, with
at least 5 years at the Manager (Director) or Assistant Manager (Assistant
Director) level. Further, the consultant should have experience with a
majority of the important crops in the project - wheat, rice, cotton and
hybrids of maize, millet and sorghum.
Job Description
13.       Under the project State Seed Certification Agencies would be
established or expanded to take over certification duties hitherto performed
by NSC. Consultant would be engaged by the Central Seed Certification Board,



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 4
for 60 days, to advise State Agencies on organization, and administrative,
recording and other management procedures, appropriate to the expanded work
load.
14.       Consultant would prepare a written report of his recommendations
for the CSCB.
Strengthening NSC Marketing Operations
Qualifications
15.       Consultant would be a firm of management/marketing consultants
having previous experience in sales promotion, market strategy development
and advertising, as well as in the design and operation of staff training
courses in these areas. Experience relating to agricultural inputs would
be an asset.
Job Description
16.       Consultant would be hired by NSC.  The objective of the training
course would be to emphasize to and prepare NSC staff for a new market
environment characterized by seed surplus rather than shortage. Two types
of training courses, one for management staff, and another for field market-
ing staff, would be developed. The first would focus on developing an over-
all long range marketing strategy for NSC. The latter would deal with field
variables like dealer development, relationship with extension agencies,
advertising media selection, design of advertising and promotion message,
and identification and use of progressive farmers as catalysts. Use of case
studies would be essential. Trainees working in small groups, would be
asked to evolve marketing innovations and adjustments in response to various
market situations.
17.       Suitable training materials, including case studies, charts,
posters, slides and write-ups would be prepared. Consultants would also
prepare NSC training division staff for repeating the field staff course at
NSC regional offices. A suitable training manual would be written.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
TRlINING & TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(Rs. '000)
Man-                                    Foreign
months  1       2      3     4    Total Exchange
A. PLANT DESIGN
Consultants:  Travel                  -    -        60    -     -        60   100
Fee & Expenses          6    -      300    -      -      300    50
B. SEED CERTIFICATICN
Director & Chief Seed Officers (8)   8
Travel  Rs.15,000                      -       120    -     -      120    50
Expenses 0 Rs.300/day                   -        70    -     _        70   100
Consultant
Travel                             -    -        20    -     -        20   100
Fee & EFpenses                     2    -       100    -     -      100    50
-      310    -     -       310    -
C. SEED PROCESSING
Seed Processing Engineers (7)
Travel @ Rs.15,000                       -       _    105    -       105    50
Expenses 0 Rs.300/day             14    -        _    125    -       125   100
Tuition & Books                         -        -     10    -        10   100
D. MARKETING'
Local Consultants S Rs.7,500/
man-month                         18    -        90    -     45      135    -
Training Materials & Equipment              -       50    -     25       75    -
Market Surveys                             150      -    100    50      300    -
E. SEED TECHNOLGY RESEARCH
Ph.D Fellowships (5)
Travel & Rs.20,000                       -       50    -     50      100    50
Expenses S Rs.50,000/man-year   180    -        250   250   250      750   100
Tuition & Books S Rs.15,000/
man-year                             -        75    75    75      225   100
Consultant                                  -      120    -      -      120    -
Travel                                   -       20    -      -       20   100
Fee & Expenses                     2    -       100    -      -      100    50
F. TOTAL BASE COST                            150   1,305   665   495   2,615    65
Price Contingenc"                       _       100   105   120      325    65
TOTAL COST                 150   1,405   770   615   2,940    65
1/ Local consultants to design a training program for NSC marketing staff, and con-
duct the initial program; repeated in year 4, market survey in year 1 and year 3.
2/  7% p.a. for local costs;  and a% p.a. for foreign costs to 1980.



ANWEX 7
INDIA                               Table 1
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
APSSC: Investments
(Rs.O00)
---------.YEAR --------------                    % Foreign
1          2           3           4       Total     Exchange
A. PROCESSING PLANT
Land & Buildings           310       4,905       4,905          -    10,120            15
Machinery & Equipy1nt       -        4,510       4,510       4,510   13,530            35.5
Interim Equipment-      1,270           -           -           -      1,270           30
Import Duties              120         260         250         250       880           -
Base Cost          1,700        9,675       9,665       4,760   25,800            26
Contingencies:
Physical              90          485         485         240    1,300            26
Price                 35          855       1,820       1,215    3                27
Sub-Total A.       1,825       11,015      11,970       6,215   31,025            26
B. OTHER INVESTMENT
Quality Control
Equipment at HQ          40           40          -           -         80           50
Vehicles                  490           150        150          -        790           25
Furniture & Office
Equipment at HQ         150          150          -           -        300           -
Furniture & Office
Equipment at Plants      50          100         150          -        300           -
Base Cost            730          440         300          -      1,470           16
3/
Contingencies:
Physical              35           20          15          -         70           16
Price                 1S           35          50          -        100           23
Sub-Total B.         780          495         365          -      1,640           17
4'
c. TOTAL SSC INVESTMENT   2,430         10,115      9,965       4,760   27,270             25
3/
Contingencies,
Physical             125          505         500         240    1,370            25
Price                 50          890       1.870       1,215  4_4025             9h
TOTAL              2,605       11,510      12,335       6,215   32,665            25
===S2= ~    ~     ==m ======
1/ One 10,000 ton and one 5,000 ton capacity plant (See Annex 3  Table 5    for details).
2/ All interim equipment, except for silos and heaters, at Tanuku,become part of new plants.
3/ Physical at 5%, price contingency based on following: local equipment: 1976 ( year) 7% and
then onwards; local civil works, 1976 ( year), 8%, and then onwards 10%; foreign equipment
1976 ( year) 10%; 1977-79 8% and onwards 7%.
41 In addition, APSSC would purchase existing NSC plant and equipment, but this is not
included in project costs. Nominal value used further in this analysis is Rs.2,070,000,
but final value is to be determined by NSC/SSC evaluation teams.



ANNEX 7
Table 2
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
HSSC: Investments
(Rs .000)
------YEAR-------------                     X Forei
1        2         3         4         Total     Exchange
A, PROCESSING PLANTS: CEREALS
Land and Buildings                     155    2,920    2,925         -        6,000         15
Machinery & Equipment                   -      2,315    2,315    2,320        6,950         35
Interim Equipment                      860        -        -         -          860         95
Import Duties                          260       135      135       140         670         -
Base Cost                1,275    5,370    5,375    2,460        14,480         26
3/
Contingencies:
Physical                         65       270       270       125         730         26
Price                            30       480    1.015        625       2.150
Sub-Total A              1,370    6,120    6,660    3,210        17,360         26
2/
B. PROCESSING PLANTS: COTTON/CEREAL
Land and Buildings                     400    3,555    3,560         -        7,515         15
Machinery & Equipment                   -     4,235    4,235    4,235        12,705         47
Import Duties                           -        505      505       505       1.515         -
Base Cost                  400    8,295    8,300    4,740        21,735         32
Contingencies:
Physical                         20       415       415       235       1,085         27
Price                            10       750    1.550    1.245         3.555         32
Sub-Total B                430    9,460   10,265    6,220        26,375         28
C. OTHER INVESTMENTS
Quality Control Equipment at HQ         40        40        -         -           80         50
Vehicles                               490       150       150        -          790         25
Furniture & Office Equipment at HQ  150          150        -         -          300         -
Furniture & Office Equipment at
Plants                           50       100       150                   300         -
730      440       300        -        1,470         16
3/
Contingencies:
Physical                         35        20        15        -           70         16
Price                             15       35        50        -          100         23
Sub-Total C                780       495       365       -        1,640          17
D. TOTAL SSC INVESTMENT                 2,405   14,105   13,975    7,200         37,685         29
Contingencies:
Physical                         120      705       700       360       1,885         29
Price                            55    1265         615    1.870        5.805         33
TOTAL                    2,580   16,075   17,290    9,430        45,373          30
1/ For one 10,000-ton processing plant plus two sets of interim capacity; one set to become part
of new plant.
2/ A 2,500-ton cotton seed unit at Sirsa with 5,000-ton wheat seed; and a 500-ton clean cotton
seed unit at Hissar with acid delinting facility, but wheat seed unit.                    7Z
3/ Physical at 5%, price contingency based on following: local equipment, 1976 (kyr)/and then
onwards; local civil works, 1976 (liyr) 8%, and then onwards 10%; foreign equipment71976 (yr)
10%; 1977-79 87, and onwards 7%/.
4/ In addition HSCC would purchase existing NSC plants/equipment at Kernal and Yamunanagar at
prices to be determined by NSCISSC evaluation teams.  The costs of this plant are not included
n project costs.



INDIA                      ~~~~~~ANNEX 7
INDIA                                 Table 3
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
MSSC: Investments
(Rs. 000)
------------Year --------------                   % Foreign
l(lyr)   2         3         4(kyr) Total       Exchange
A. PROCESSING PLANT: Cotton Cereal
Land & Buildings                     610    6,205    6,205          -     13,020      15
Machinery and Equi rent                      6,090    6,090    6,090    18,270        40
Interim Equipment2                   430       -         -        -          430      95
Import Duties                        130       540       540      540 1n750            -
Base Cost                    1,170   12,835   12,835    6,030    33,470          29
Contingencies:3/
Physical                         60      640       640       330      1,670      29
Price                           25    1.160    2.410    1,710         5.305      32
Sub-Total A                  1,255   14,635   15,885    8,670    40,445          29
B. OTHER INVESTMENTS
Quality Control Equipment at EQ    40           40        -         -         80      50
Vehicles                             490       150       150        -        790      25
Furniture & Office Equipment:HQ- 150           150        -         -       300         -
f          f      "   Plants    50        100       150        -        300        -
Base Cost                      730       440       300        -      1,470       16
Contingencies:-/
Physical                         35       20        15        -         70       16
Price                            15       35        50        -        100       23
Sub-Total B                          780       495       3b5        -     1,640       17
C. TOTAL SSC INVESTMENT4-                 1,900   13,275   13,135    6,630   34,940          29
Contingencies:3/
Physical                              95       660       655       330    1,740        29
Price                                 40    1,195    2,460    1.710    5.405           32
TOTAL                              2,035   15,130   16,250    8,670   42,085           29
1/  At Akola, a 5000 ton cotton seed unit plus a 5000 ton hybrid cereal unit. At Parbahani, a
2500 ton (acid delinting) cotton seed unit plus a 5000 ton hybrid cereal unit. Only 70% of the
land and building costs shown on Table 5 Annex 3 are included since physical facilities are
to be shared with tne cotton units. Machinery and equipment estimates based on cotton unit
estimates (Table 5 Annex 3) and the 5000 ton module estimates (Table 9 Annex J), excluding
vehicles.
2/ Interum equipment (Parbahani)becomes part of new plant.
3/  Physical at 5%, price  contingency based on following: local equipment, 1976 (lyr) and then
onwards; local civil works, 1976 (yr) 8%, and then onwards 10%; foreign equipment 1976 (yr)
10%; 1977-79 g%, and onwards 7%.
4/ In addition, APSSC would purchase existing NSC plant and equipment, but this is not
included in project costs. Nominal value used furtner in this analysis is Rs. 2,070,000,
but final value is to be determined by NSC/SSC evaluation teams.



INDIA                              ANNEX 7
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT                      Table 4
PROJECT COSTS
PSSC: Investments
(Rs.OOO)
---------------YEARS --      ------                 % Foreign
I (WYrl    2           3          4 (kYr)Total      Exchange
1/
A. PROCESSING PLANT: CEREAL
Land & Buildings                   310    3,655       3,655           -     7,620          15
Machinery & Equipment                -     2,875      2,875        2,875    8,625          35.5
Interim                            860        -          -            -        860         95
Import Duties                      260       140        140          140      680          -
Base Cost                 1,430    6,670       6,670        3,015   17,785          28
Contingencies:
Physical                     70       335        335          150      890
Price                        35       575      1,200          715    2,525
Sub-Total                   105      91O       1,535          865    3,415
B. NEW PROCESSING PLANT: CEREAL
COTTON (MIIUTSAR)
Land & Building                    150    2,490       2,495           -      5,135         15
Machinery & Equipment                -     2,425      2,430        2,425    7,280          47
Interim Capacity                   430        -          -            -       430          95
Import Duties                      130       225        230          225       810         -
Base Cost                   710    5,140       5,155        2,650   13,655          33
3/
Contingencies:
Physical                     -        260        260          130      685          33
Price                        15      446         915          640    2,010          36
Sub-Total B.                760    5,840       6,330        3,420   16,350          33
C. OTHER INVESTMENT
Quality Control Equipment at HQ    40         40                                80         50
Vehicles                           490       150         150          -        790         25
Furniture & Office Equipment
at HQ                            150       150         -            -        300         -
Furniture & Office Equipment
at Plants                         50       100        150           -         30         -
Base Cost                   730       440        300           -     1,470          16
3/
Contingencies:
Physical                     35        20         15           -         70         16
Price                        15        35         50           -        100         23
Sub-Total C.                780       495        365           -     1,640          17
4/                  _ _ _        _ _ __                 _ _
D. TOTAL SSC INVESTMENT2           2TX19r    12,250     12,125        5,665   32,910           29
Contingencies:
Physical                    140       615        610          280    1,645          29
Price                        65    1,050       2,165        1,355    4,635          31
TOTAL                     3,075   13,911      14,900        7,300   39,190           29
1/ Two 5000-ton nominal capacity cereal processing plants.
-2/ One plant 3,200-ton clean cotton seed and 5000-ton wheat.
3t/ Physical at 5%, price contingency based on following:
local equipment: 1976 (4 year) 7% and then onwards; local civil works, 1976 Wear, 8%, and then
onwards 10%; foreign equipment 1976 ( year) 10%; 1977-79,8%;and onwards 7%.
4/ In addition, PSC would purchase existing NSC plant, but this is not included in project costs;
approximate equipment value used further in this analysis is Rs. 500,000,with another 100%
added for civil works and 15% physical contingencies.



ANiEX 7
INDIA                           Table -5
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
(Rs. 000)
----------------YEAR----------------                            % Foreign
1        2         3         4         5         Total          Exchange
A. STATE SEED CORPORATIONS (Annex 7, Table 1-4)
Civil Works                                        1,935   23,730   23,745          -         -      49,410              15
Machinery & Equipment                              4,750   24,255   24,255   24,255           -       77,515             37
Other Investments                                  2.920    1,760    1,200          -         -        5.880              16
Sub-Total       51                        9,605   49,745   49,200   24,255           -      132,805             27
Contingencies: Physical                              480    2,485    2,465    1,210           -        6,640             27
Price 5/                            210    4,400    9,110    6,150          _        19.870              35
TOTAL A.                                 10,295   56,630   60,775   31,615           -      159,315              28
I/
B. INCREMENTAL SSC/PSP WORFING CAPITAL                5,030    6,700    8,370    6,700    6,700          33,500
Contingencies: Price 5/                               90       480    1,190    1,500    2080           5,340_
TOTAL B.                                  5,120    7,180    9,560    8,200    8,780          38,840
2/
C. FARM DEVELOPMENT
SAU and SFCI Farms                                 9,970   15,120    6,860    2,750           -       34,700              35
Canal Remodelling                                    945   10,400    5.600          -         -       16,945              15
Sub-Total       5/                      10,915   25,520   12,460    2,750            -       51,645              23
Contingencies: Physical                              235    2,600    3,400    1,155           -        7,390             23
Price 5/                            235    2,485    4,150         815        -        7,685              16
TOTAL C.                                 11,385   30,605   20,010    4,720           -       66,720              22  f
D. AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITIES (Annex 1, Table 5)
Breeder Seed Units                                1,000    6,050    5,330           -         -       12,380              30
Foundation Seed Processing Unit                   1,780    7,730    7,420           -         -       16,930              32
Seed Technology Research Unit                        480    2.345'   1.040        670         -          535              18
Sub-Total       5/                   '    3,260   16,125   13,790         670        -       33,845              29
Contingencies: Physical                               25       915    2,050        210        -        3,200              29
Price 5/                             70    1,415    2,340         200        -          025              35
3,355   18,455   18,180    1,080           -       41,070              30
3/
E. QUALITY CONTROL
State Seed Certification Agencies
Equipment & Deficits                           2,415    1,980    1,465         500        -        6,360              24
State Seed Testing Labs Equipment                     -     1860          -        300        -        2.160              37
Sub-Total       5/                        2,415    3,840    1,465         800        -        8,520              24
Contineencies: Physical                              145       225        75        40        -          485     -        24
Price 5/                             40       225       200       120        -          585              30
TOTAL E.                                  2,600    4,290    1,740        -960        -        9,590              24
F. PRIVATE SECTOR PROCESSORS (Annex 4, Table 1)          -    15,375   25,625   10,250           -       51,250              21
Contingencies: Price 5/                               -      1,295    4.460    2.805          -        8560               22
TOTAL F.                                     -    16,670   30,085   13,055           -       59,810              22
C. NSC VEGETABLE SEED UNIT (Annex 3, Table 10)           -      3,435    2,400         -         -        5,835              48
Contingencies: Physical 5/                            -        680       480        -         -        1,160              48
Price 5/                                      330       505        -         -          835              46
TOTAL G.'                                    -      4,445    3,385         -         -        7,830              48
H. BULK & TRANSIT STORAGE (Annex 11, Table 6)            -    12,510    7,430    3,565           -       23,505               5
Contingencies: Physical 5/                            -        625       370       175        _        1,170              15
Price 5/                             -      1,135    1,430    1,160          -        3,725              15
TOTAL H.                                     -    14,270    9,230    4,900           -       28,400              15
I. TRAINING & TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE (Annex 6,            150    1,305        665       495        -        2,615              65
Table 1)
Contingencies: Price 51                               -        100       105       120        -          325              65
TOTAL I.                                    150    1,405        770       615        -        2,940              65
4/
J. RESERVE STOCKS        5/                           1,965    5,900   11,800   11,800    7,870          39,335               -
Contingencies! Price                                - 35       425    1,675    2,655    2.360          7,150
TOTAL J.                                  2,000    6,325   13,475   14,455   10,230          46,485               -
K. PROJECT COSTS             5/                      33,340  140,455  133,205   61,285   14,570    382,855                   20.5
Contingencies: Physical 6%)                          885    7,530    8,840    2,790           -       20,045              25
Price (14%)                         680   12,290   25,165   15,525    4,440          58,100              24.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                      34,905  160,275  lt7,210   79,600   19,010    461,000                   21
1/ Permanent increase in the working capital of NSC/SSC/private sector due to the project; see Chart 1; incremental working
capital is 55% of total shown on Chart 1, based on increase in seed production in the project areas.
2/ Including canal remodelling in Haryana (Annex 2, Table 2), excluding 60 tractors of less than 50 hp that are reserved for
local procurement.
3/ Based on typical SCA investment (Annex 5, Table 1) plus cost of extra motorcycles for A.P., Haryana and Maharashtra SCAs.
41 Stock of Annex 11, Table 7, valued at ex-SSC prices.
37 Price contingercy based on followirg: local equipment: 197 ( year) and onward 7%; local civil works,
1976 e year, 8%, and then onwards 107,; foreign equipment 1976 ( year) 10%; 1977-79, 8% and onwards 7%.
Physical at rates of para. 4.37; overall 6%
March 22, 1976



INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
FINANCING & DISBURSEMENT
(Re. 000)
L- RD FINANCINGh         --M- Pbl  3I  22-1 -GQI__________                                      ----STATE GOVERNMENTS-------                                      Private         Gre                     P rtci
toant. thru        GQI PobIEr             Share Capital                            Share Capital         Public                                         Sector          Reaty Ac                pa ing
1/   Total   7            ARDC            ExDondttaro.         (Thronoh NSC/SFCI/CWC)           racta         toSICceaditareSLPc in SSC  Eardit-     NSC         HLD            P.S.C    _                     AIsDA    B.eks
A. SSC IVESTTENTS
1. Pror.naing Machinery (Itported)            19,070        ISSE cif   14,130                  -                     14,330                      -        j 16,730                 _                               -                - _          16,730     21 Rio   Ill 155
2. Other Eq.lpoont and Civil Wo-rk           140,245         NO         84,170                                                                                                            -          I                                         5               200          ___
159,315        62         98,305                 -                     14,330                                  16 ,73v0                                                                                          2070 
B. LARGE FARSd DEVELOPMENT
1. Mahinery & Equip-eno  (Itported)            11,435       1007I   ift  12,600           I 13,133                 | 5,065                     5,00             -_                                                 980              _               -          2          2
2. Local YEqipmet & Land l,eveivp-nr          31,475         60%    I  (SFCI)                  A (lAO)             I (SFCI)                   (SAUl                                                                                                            2,765      2,765
3. Canal  R-edallteg                          23.810         60%                            14.290                     -                                                        ...zo(oe
366anal.7e=odellirg   23,810  430%  12,600   27,425                   5,065                     5,600            -                 9,520                -           9BO              _              -           2.765      7,765
C. AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITIES (B 4 F lSod)
1, Machinery 6 Equip-ent (Eaported)             5,710       100% cif       -                 4,050                      -                      1,660                                                               -
2.  vool iqoip.ent & Civil or-kh               32,910        60            -                19,750                                            13,160
3. Seed Technology Reaarch: Oper-tion.          2,450         -           -                    -                        -                      2     450
41,070        58            _                23,800                      _                     17,270
D. QUALITY CONTROL
(CNCB)
1. SCA & STL Eqaipmtnt (Itoported)              2,140       100% ctif                        1,500                      _                        640            -                  _                    _           _
2. LCoal Eqvipnse.  sd Civil War-k              6,910        60            -                 4,145                      _                      2,765
3. SCA Operating rificire                         540                                                                   _540                                    -
9,590        59            -5,645                                       -                      2,9-45          _-                   -
E. PRIVATE SECTOR PROCESSORS for
Prorrgeing Planto and R.eoarbh Fa-ea           59,810        70% af    25,850                   -                                                                                                                                 17,945              -          13,630    2,385
ARD8
60
1/
F. NSC VEGETABLE SEED UEIT
1. Nachine.y & Eqaipac.t (Inported)             4,125       100% rif    2,930                                                                                                                         2 -  -  -  -  2,350  -          -               -            -       I3f5
2. Coral Eqoip.ent & Civil Worka                5 705        60 of cost 2.225                   -                       -                         -              -                  -                   '35 - 
1/             f          i           6           5.155                                                                                                                        2,350                                                                  325
GC  BULi & TRANSIT STORAGE                        28,400         60        17,040                  -                     8,520                                                  - _    _                    _           _                -               -          1,420      1,420
(CWC)
H. TRAININC & TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                '2,940        100            -                 2,940                     _                         _              _                  _
I  RESERVE STOCKSI                                46,485          -     -                          -                        -                     46,405            -                                                   _                _               _ -                     _
(ciSC)
J. WORKING CAPITAL (PERMANENT)                    38 840 (                                                              8 900                     -_            10 120                 -                   -                          9.700           10. 120                  _
TOTAL PROJECT                    461,000         47.5      158,950              59,810                   36,815                   73,300         26.850              9,520                2.350         980           27,645           26,850      1t,f1   11,05D
-----218,750-----------110,115.------                                              -----86,370---------------57,925 -------
(U0S,SM 52.7)        -        (ROOM 25,0)4/  (-----                                12.60)-.                           (UN$1 his                                            (      6---cus  7,825
/ loan.  trot bankt f-r 70T af pro-ert l               Aveetmonic  AROC relianrfcig 90% of b-ak la-                                                                                                           1
2/ Ioaca frot. boAk  tar 757 af p-i-et  Anveete: 6002 r-fi.acticg 90% of batk  T...-
3/ For SUacy A0rlcnleorai Ocivorsities (SAU)  ..ane by GQI en ftlnce 60% of cast of land dev-lop-nt at i.t-ee-e rate af 9% pa.l
4/   'aFy v  tqoiporvr ftr SFIT, OLOC eronoofrrod bh NtC ti SSC vouId ierroa.e  thiE.
A,.g-l 6, 1976






ANNEX 7
Chart 1
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
WORKING CAPITAL NEEDS OF NSP AT FULL DEVELOPMENT
z NSP
1 30                              ,l                       Peak =Rs 1 57m
/ \PTotal NSP
120                                                                                              _ _ _ _ _   _
100
--     - -- -      -     - ---   --- ---    -- -- - -- -- -   -------1---------.---------...-----..---. ... .... 
Avg. Needs =95 m. //\
/   TOTAL SSCs
. I t | -                  \                 Peak: Rs 157m.
0 t.                                                                                   .          .           Avg.: Rs 95m.
Minimum:  Rs 60m.
C0
cr  6C
\0 /   /    \< Private Sector
\ 27   APSSC                            / |  g    X>HSSC
, ~      ~~~ OA                                                                       ' I~
40       L                                                                          % i   
Dec.  Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   May   Jun.   Jul.   Aug.   Sept.  Oct.   Nov.   Dec.   Jan.   Feb.
Months
Wheat    Paddy      Jowar     Bajra   Maize     Cotton    Potato
Seed into inventory after processing
(plus storage) valued at (Rs/ton)  1450      1150      1800      1800   1650       3000      7000
Seed sales, just before planting season, i95o  1650     3800      4900   2800       4000      1100
valued at (B/ton)
SSC paid by NSC after sale
Seed growers paid grain price at arrival; final payment after payment by NSC
About 55% is incremental
World Bank-157281HR






ANNEX 8
Table 1
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Cumulative Disbursement
Bank Fiscal Year & Quarter               at End of Quarter
(Rs. Million)
FY 1977
1st
2nd                                 0.08
3rd                                  .95
4th                                 2.15
FY 1978
1st                                 3.5
2nd                                 5.2
3rd                                 7.25
4th                                10.1
FY 1979
1st                                12.9
2nd                                15.3
3rd                                17.5
4th                                19.5
FY 1980
1st                                21.3
2nd                                22.5
3rd                                23.7
4th                                24.4
FY 1981
1st                                25.0
2nd -
1/ Calculated from Annex 7, Table 6 and Table 7, assuming
1-2 quarter lags in disbursements.
2/ Estimated date of effectiveness 30 Sept., 1976.
3/ Estimated closing date 31 Dec., 1980.
March 22, 1976



ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Organization and Management
General
1.        A major shift in the organization of the Indian seed industry
is contemplated under the National Seed Program (NSP), and in some States,
notably Haryana, Maharashtra and Karnataka, it is well under way. NSC, which
till recently was the major seed production, certification and marketing
agency, is to give up the first two roles to concentrate on marketing and on
the overall coordination and promotion of the national seed industry. State
Agricultural Universities (SAU) are considerably to enlarge their role in
breeder and foundation seed production, the former coordinated by ICAR, and
the latter by NSC. Certification responsibility is to be with autonomous
State Seed Certification Agencies (SSCA). State governments are to phase out
of seed production, leaving it to State Seed Corporations (SSC), and in turn
concentrate on seed law enforcement and seed promotion. Overall organization
and management of the seed industry is depicted diagramatically on Chart 1.
A. National Seed Development Council
2.        Overall policy guidance for the development of the seed industry
in India would be provided by the National Seed Development Council (NSDC)
already constituted by GOI. The Seed Cell in the Ministry of Agriculture
would provide the secretariat to the NSDC with assistance from NSC.   NSDC
representation would be broad-based to accomodate the policy guidance role.
The following agencies would be represented on NSDC:
GOI, NSC, ICAR, Central Seed Certification Board, State Governments,
SAU, SSC State marketing agencies, seed growers, private sector
processors, and private sector seed dealers.
B. Central Seed Committee
3.        The Central Seed Committee (CSC) constituted under the Seed Act,
would continue to have the responsibility for variety release for seed law
enforcement and for notification of crops and varieties to which the Seed
Act is applicable. CSC would operate in close consultation with similar
state seed committees, which advise State Governments on seed matters.
Newly formed State Seed Corporation and Seed Certification Agencies would
be represented on the State Seed Committees.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
C. Project Management and Monitoring Committee
4.        To oversee the implementation of NSP, a Project Management and
Monitoring Committee (PMMC) would be established by GOI. PMMC would be
chaired by GOI, Secretary for Agriculture Other members would be NSC, GOI
Ministry of Finance, ICAR (1), ARDC (1), SSC (4-8) and private sector
processors (1). Secretariat to the PMMC would be provided by GOI
Ministry of Agriculture.
5.        The PMMC would:
(a) Provide quarterly reports to GOI and the Bank on
the progress of NSP, and any other reports requested
by the Bank.
(b) oversee procurement of goods financed under the project;
(c) oversee detailed planning for large farms financed under NSP;
(d) review any complaints from SSC, private sector processors or
commercial banks regarding working capital and other
financing matters, and recommend suitable corrective
actions to GOI and other agencies;
(e) ensure timely flow of finance from GOI to project institutions;
(f) ensure speedy request for disbursements from the Bank
as soon as project expenditures are undertaken;
(g) assist the private sector processors and dealers to get equal
treatment with the SSC and State marketing agencies;
(h) monitor the physical implementation, projected and
actual performance, including seed quantity, quality
and financial viability of SSC;
(i) monitor the performance of the SAU regarding their
role in breeder seed and foundation seed production;
(j) monitor the performance of SSCA regarding quality control;
(k) monitor the production impact of NSP seed through a suitably
designed study including a bench mark study and periodic surveys
over the next 10 years;
(1) assess needs for further financing and make appropriate recom-
mendations.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
D. National Seed Corporation
6.        The National Seed Corporation (NSC) was created to be mainly a
promotional agency. However, it found itself in seed production, process-
ing, marketing and certification in the absence of other agencies. NSC would
continue to play an important role in the national seed industry, but would
transfer the production, processing and certification functions to SSC and
SSCA, and concentrate its efforts on the marketing, promotion, and coordina-
tion of NSP.
7.        Specifically NSC would:
(a) participate in the share capital of the SSC, and
actively assist them to take over NSC activites and
become autonomous viable seed production agencies;
(b)  coordinate the certified seed production programs of the
SSC;
(c) assess demand and arrange for interstate marketing of
certified seed;
(d) plan and organize the production of foundation seed by
the Agricultural Universities--or SFCI, if necessary;
(e) plan the production of breeder seed with ICAR;
(f) design, procure and construct processing plants for the
SSC, and provide technical consultancy services to
SSC and private sector processors;
(g) produce vegetable seed for local and export markets;
(h) coordinate with State Governments in seed promotional
activities;
(i) operate the reserve stock scheme;
(j)  conduct bi-annual seed demand surveys; and
(k) reorient its staff to active seed marketing and
promotion.
Capital
8.        GOI would continue to hold all  NSC equity, and provide addi-
tional equity required to enable NSC to invest in the share capital of the



ANNEX 9
Page 4
SSC, or to borrow for working capital or vegetable seed unit. NSC
would subscribe about 30% of SSC capital, at least 15% as equity shares,
and balance in 11% cumulative preference shares. Processing plants would
be transferred to the SSC as part of NSC capital contribution at a mutually
agreed price by the October-November 1976 processing season. NSC would have
two representatives on the Board of Directors of the SSC. In addition NSC
would offer to transfer its existing staff or to have them work on deputation
with the SSC for a period of one year in order to facilitate a smooth change
over.
Seed Production
9.        Certified seed production programs of SSC would be coordinated by
NSC. To facilitate this, NSC Board would be reconstituted so as to include
SSC Managing Directors. NSC seed production and processing program in the
project areas would be transferred to the SSC. NSC would no longer contract
seed growers in the project areas after the kharif 76 season. All NSC growers
in the project area would be asked to become SSC shareholders and NSC would
assist SSC in enlisting new shareholder growers. Seed production by SSC
outside the project areas would be phased out to match the increase in seed
production within the project area. NSC would undertake to continually
monitor the seed market and provide regular assessment of demand, prices,
availability, and farmer reaction to the SSC. Total seed demand projections
would be made four years in advance and be updated at regular intervals.
Allocation of certified seed production would be made at least three months
before the production season. All SSC would be offered the same ex-plant
price to encourage competition. SSC would not produce seeds of all crops and
varieties, but would specialize in those best suited. NSC would undertake to
identify suitable producers for all seeds needed by the SSC.
Demand Assessment
10.       Demand assessment would be a key NSC activity.  It would be based
on feedback from its marketing network. NSC demand assessments would be sup-
ported by GOI's assessments from zonal conferences which are organized twice
every year for this purpose. NSC would also undertake demand and farmer
acceptance surveys about every two years through qualified agencies. Advance
indenting by purchasing agencies would be encouraged through suitable incen-
tives. Firm orders, backed by 10% advances received by NSC would be passed
on to SSC as firm orders with 10% advances. Especially in the early years,
when SSC willingness and ability to take risk would be small, NSC would
place additional firm orders with SSC based on its own assessment of demand.
Seed obtained against these orders would partly go into the reserve stocks.
SSC would be permitted to produce at their own risk any additional amount
they wish to produce. NSC would offer to charge half of the normal service
charge on any seed that is produced by SSC on their own risk, and sub-
sequently procured by NSC. If despite all efforts, SSC together are not
willing or able to undertake production to the level of NSC projected re-
quirements, NSC would be free to continue with a seed program outside the



ANNEX 9
Page 5
project area, but would purchase seed from non SSC producers only as a
last resort. SSC agreement with NSC for supply of certified seed would
include suitable damages claused for failure to supply or lift the con-
tracted quantities.
Marketing
11.       Interstate marketing of seed produced by SSC would be under-
taken by NSC (See Annex 11). Intrastate marketing of NSP seed would be
done by SSC. No direct SSC to SSC or government to government transactions
would take place without NSC concurrence. NSC would sample the seed enter-
ing its marketing network, and test it for purity and germination as a
secondary quality control mechanism. NSC would offer to sell in the inter-
state market for private processors also.
Foundation & Breeder Seed Production
12.       SSC would contract with NSC for the supply of foundation seed of
varieties of all India importance. For the much smaller quantities of
local varieties, SSC would contact directly with Agricultural Universities.
Foundation seed production for all India varieties would be organized by NSC
on a contract basis mainly with Agricultural Universities. To the extent,
that the universities do not have sufficient land suitable for foundation
seed production, SFCI or government departmental farms would be used. Since
foundation seed is produced at least 2 years in advance, and it is a key
input, it would be included in the reserve stock scheme. Risks of carry-over
or obsolesence will be borne by NSC, but not by the Universities. Foundation
seed prices would be set by NSC to recover all direct and indirect costs, and
are expected to be lower than those in the recent past. Foundation seed
requirements of the private sector would also be assessed and met by NSC under
damages clauses similar to those between NSC/SSC.
13.       Breeder seed production would be organized by ICAR and NSC would
keep close contact with ICAR to ensure adequate production of the required
crops and varieties (Annex 1).
Plant Design
14.       SSC would contract with NSC for design, procurement and construc-
tion the SSC processing plants on a turn-key basis. NSC would strengthen
its engineering cell with a civil engineer to prepare complete plant designs.
These would be reviewed by the plant design consultant (Annex 6). Civil works
would be contracted out by NSC or SSC, while plant installation and start up
would be NSC responsibility. Foundation seed plants to be put up by Agricul-
ture Universities would also be designed, procured and installed by NSC under
contracts with universities or SFCI. Similarly, NSC would offer its engineer-
ing services to private seed processors. All processing equipment, financed
by the Bank except for the private sector processors would be procured by
NSC.



ANNEX 9
Page 6
Reserve Stock Scheme
15.       The reserve stock scheme would be operated by NSC under the
guidance of a committee, chaired by the Secretary of Agriculture, and
comprising Ministry of Finance and NSC (Annex 11).
Organization Structure
16.       NSC would be reorganized during 1976, to match its changing role.
Its Board would be reconstituted to include Managing Directors of SSC in which
NSC holds equity.  A proposed organization structure is shown on Chart II, and
consists of five divisions under the Managing Director:
(i) Production and Quality Control: responsible for foundation
seed production, vegetable seed production, and for
NSC-wide quality control, including the marketing network.
(ii) Project and Engineering: responsible for turnkey design, pro-
curement construction and startup of SSC and universities pro-
cessing plants, and technical services to private processors
or cooperative societies.
(iii) Marketing: responsible for storage, transport, distribution and
market development for all seeds, including vegetable seeds. A
special cell in marketing division would deal with demand
projections.
(iv) Finance and Accounting: for accounts, audit, bank finance,
financial relations with SSC, cost control and inventory
management policies.
(v) Personnel and Administration: for administration, staff
relations, staff training.
Two staff units would be:
(i) Company Secretary and Legal: an advisory unit to the
Managing Director.
(ii) PMMC Secretariat: headed by GOI, Deputy Secretary (Seeds)
NSC would have 10 regional offices.  Regional managers would report to the
Managing Director, but have three functional sections dealing with marketing
development, sales and distribution. The role of the regional offices would
be: dealer selection and appointment and dealer training; advance ordering,
demand assessment; extension through government agencies; intrastate trans-
portation; and local publicity.



ANNEX 9
Page 7
E. State Seed Corporations
17.       SSC would be established under the Companies Act of 1956.  Articles
of Association of the SSC would be subject to Bank approval, and essential
features are in Appendix I.
18.       SSC would:
(a) Agree with NSC on the certified seed production program;
(b) Organize quality seed production through shareholder
growers;
(c) Assist shareholder growers on technical aspects and in
obtaining foundation seed, seed inspection, and credit;
(d) Promote quality seed use through State Government department
of agriculture;
(e) establish and operate processing plants including those
transferred from NSC;
(f) Estimate intra state demand for seeds of all type and
arrange for their production within State, if agronomically
feasible or outside State through NSC;
(g) store seed, on behalf of NSC, under the reserve
stock scheme;
(h) arrange for marketing of seed within state;
(i) hire qualified staff;
(j) train farmers in becoming good seed grower;
(k) support seed technology research programs at
universities and research institutes;
(1) assist Government with seed industry policy formulation.
Capital
19.       State Governments, NSC and seed growers would subscribe to the
capital of the SSC approximately in the proportion 35:30:35. Preference
shares of upto 25% of the capital would be held equally by State Government
and NSC, and carry cumulative rights and 11% dividend. Equity capital would
be subscribed by the participants so that (a) State Governments and NSC
hold approximately equal percentages; (b) the seed growers have not more
than 50% of equity shares; (c) excessive dependence on seed growers'



ANNEX 9
Page 8
equity as a source of project finance is avoided. Agriculture Universities
would hold at least 20Z of State Government shares, and other government
agencies or corporations (like the Agro Industries or Marketing Federation)
may hold upto 25% of the State Government shares.
20.       Shares allocated to growers, but not subscribed within three months,
would be subscribed equally by NSC and State Government if necessary from
cash flow considerations. However, this would occur only after the shares
previously subscribed are fully paid up. Also, such shares would be transfer-
red to eligible seed growers immediately upon request. Only those farmers in
the project area who operate land suitable for seed production and purchase
one share of SSC would be eligible. Share values would be about Rs 500/acre
Share allocation would be proportional to seed production area offered for the
SSC program. Institutions like the SFCI, or Agricultural Universities, would
be eligible to purchase shares out of the grower allocation. While a share-
holder would have the option not to undetake a seed program offered by the
SSC, he would cease to be a member if he failed to do so for two consecutive
seasons. SSC would offer seed production program in proportion to the share-
holding. In order to ensure that shareholders receive seed production pro-
grams that cover high proportion of seed area offered to SSC, the SSC would
enroll the shareholders progressively over 4 years by expanding the opera-
tional project area progressively to reach the target area over 4 years.
Terms and conditions of seed production would be specified in agreement
between the SSC and the growers. Any reluctance on the part of a farmer
to become shareholder would be overcome by offering shareholders a better
price than for contract production, and also by calling up shares in install-
ments. The difference in the shareholder price and contract price would be
accumulated by SSC on the contract growers account to be used to pay for the
purchase of an equity share for the contract grower.
Management
21.       SSC would be managed by an 11 member Board of Directors (except
in Maharashtra where, because of the participation of three Agricultural Univer-
sities, the Board would be 15). Up to three members of the Board would be
nominated by GOI and the balance elected by the various groups of share-
holders on the basis of representation in proportion to equity shareholding.
The Board would comprise:
Secretary Agriculture/Agriculture Production Commissioner
Managing Director, SSC
Agricultural University
Government Agency
Participating Bank



ANNEX 9
Page 9
Chairman, NSC
Managing Director, NSC
Shareholder Growers (4)
The Chairman would be either the Agriculture Production Commissioner or
Secretary of Agriculture, or the Vice Chancellor of the Agricultural Univer-
sity. The Managing Director, responsible for day to day executive functions,
would be appointed by the State Government with the concurrence of the GOI,
upon the recommendation of the Board.
22.       Responsibility of the Board would be to:
(a) appoint best qualified staff on attractive salaries;
(b) invite share subscriptions from project areas and approve
requests from farmers based on objective criteria;
(c) define production program, based on NSC/SSC agreements and
on local market demand;
(d) agree on SSC service charges and selling price to NSC, as
well as selling price within state;
(e) approve accounts and declare dividends while maintaining
adequate financial reserves; and
(f) approve investment proposals, and obtain bank finance.
Organization Structure
23.       A proposed SSC organization is shown on Chart III and would consist
of four divisions under the Managing Director:
Production: responsible for certified seed production programming,
field inspection and SSC/grower relations. Seed production officers,
during the processing season, would work as shift supervisors and
unit foremen as required.
Plant Managers: responsible for processing plants and plant site
storage, would be senior staff, especially for plants located away
from H.Q.
Marketing and Quality Control: responsibility for contracts with NSC,
intrastate seed sales and demand projections, local market devel-
opment and quality control at all stages from production through sales.
Accounting and Finance: Cost control, audit and inventory management.
Responsibility for legal affairs, staff relations, training and establishment
would be with a staff unit under the company secretary.



ANNEX 9
Page 10
Personnel Policies
24.       SSC personnel policies would be geared to rewarding performance.
Recruitment for non-clerical positions would be based on India-wide selection.
Qualifications of staff would be decided by the Board, and a selection com-
mittee constituted. Salaries would be equivalent to current NSC salaries for
similar qualifications. Staff deputation from Government would be limited to
one term of one year, after which either return to the original job, or an
absorption into SSC cadre would be required. Staff while on deputation would
be permitted to earn either the SSC salary or their original salary plus a 20%
deputation allowance. Deputation would enable the SSC to study the on-the-job
performance of an individual before absorption into the SSC cadre (which in
India tends to be permanent). For present NSC staff, no deputation allowance
would be paid. A system of annual performance reviews would be adopted by the
SSC for all operational staff below Managing Director. Flexibility in salary
administration would be maintained to reward good performance. A proposed SSC
staffing pattern is in Table 1.
F. Agricultural Universities
25.       Agricultural Universities would organize a separate seed production
unit for production of foundation seed and breeder seed. University Farm
Departments would supervise any certified seed production program. The plant
breeder would be asked to regularly supervise the foundation seed as well as
any certified seed production program. Additional staffing for the seed
production activity would be required for research and seed production activi-
ties, but would be kept to the minimum programs by calling upon University
teaching and research staff to provide technical support. Close integration
of University technical expertise and into the project is expected to signi-
ficantly improve seed quality.
G. Seed Certification Agencies
26.       Seed Certification to date has generally been the responsibility of
NSC since almost all states had notified NSC to be their certification agency.
However, under NSP, a GOI policy to support the creation of autonomous seed
certification agencies would be implemented. Certification would be in-
dependent of both the producing agency (NSC/SSC) and the seed law enforcement
agency, a principle not followed in the past. Under the Societies Act, seed
certification agencies would be created or re-constituted. Bylaws of SSCA
would be subject to IDA approval. SSC, Central Seed Certification Board,
private sector processors, seed growers, seed users, and agricultural univer-
sities would be on the Governing Council of the SSCA, which would be chaired by
the State Secretary of Agriculture.



ANNEX 9
Page 11
27.       A Central Seed Certification Board (CSCB) has been established
by GOI. The CSCB would coordinate SSCA certification programs to ensure
interstate uniformity of standards and procedures. All SSCA would be
represented on CSCB.
28.       Seed law enforcement would continue to be the responsibility of
State Governments, and assistance would be provided under NSP to improve
this activity by strengthening the seed testing laboratories of the State
Governments. State Governments would also be encouraged to adopt a GOI
policy to create special inspectorate to enforce quality standards for seed,
fertilizers and pesticides.
H. Private Sector
29.       Private sector seed companies, assisted under the project, would
be free to locate, process, and market wherever they find it attractive. NSC
would nonetheless offer them help to market their production, supply them
foundation seed, and assist them in plant design, procurement, and installa-
tion if requested to do so. These companies would have representation on
the CSC, PMMC, SSCA and CSCB. They would provide necessary competition to
the SSC.
I. Project Implementation
30.       A timetable to reach project effectiveness at the earliest pos-
sible date has been developed. All actions that must be completed between
1st January 76, and the effectiveness date of the project are identified in
Table 2. Their likely durations are estimated in weeks. The logical relation-
ships between these activities are shown on the logic network Chart IV 1/.
The longest path through the network determines the critical path - any delay
in activites on the critical path (ie, activities with no slack time) will
delay effectiveness.
1/   Each activity is shown by an arrow linking two circles (nodes).  All
activities entering a circle must be complete before any activity leav-
ing the circle can start. The earliest times (X) for reaching various
nodes are calculated by assuming all activities start promptly. The
earliest time to reach node 24 (effectiveness) is also taken as the
latest time permissible to reach effectiveness. A backward calculation
gives the latest times (Y) to leave various nodes. Differences between
Y and X indicates the slack times. Critical path links the nodes for
which slack time is zero; any delay in the critical activities would
delay effectiveness.



ANNEX 9
Page 12
Critical Path to Reach Effectiveness
31.       Activities, which delayed, would delay effectiveness, are:
Activity               Reponsibility         Latest Finish
a.   SSCs Registion and MDs               State                  1976
appointment                     Governments              15 April
b.   NSC/SSC Project Agreements          NSC/SSC               20 May
c.   Existing Plant Valuation            NSC/SSC               15 Sept.
d.   Existing Plant transfer             NSC/SSC               15 Nov.
32.       Other activities with low slack times, which need to be closely
monitored are:
a.   Amend Seed Act to restrict            GOI                 15 October 76
movement of "local" seed
b.   SSC Key Staff appointed               SSC                  1 July
c.   Processing plants, designed
& built                            NSC/SSC                1 April 78
d.   Interim Equipment Installation       NSC/SSC               1 April 77
Start and finish times for other activities are given in Table 2.
Overall Implementation Plan
33.       The above timetable only deals with actions required to reach
effectiveness at the earliest possible date (15 Nov. 76). For other events,
like construction of new plants, priority equipment installation etc fixed
completion dates are shown. These would be agreed with GOI at negotiations.
Detailed planning schedules to achieve these completion dates would be prepared
by NSC/SSC/CWC/SFCI as part of loan proposals to banks. A long range imple-
mentation schedule is shown on Chart V.



ANNEX 9
Appendix 1
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
SSC: ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
Essential Features
A.   Membership of the SSC would be restricted to state government, NSC and
seed growers in a well-defined project area who in the view of the SSC Board,
possess the necessary skills and facilities to produce quality seeds. Far-
mers who fail to undertake seed production offered by SSC for two consecutive
seasons would automatically lose membership. Project area would be enlarged
in a phased manner to reach the target project area in 3 to 4 years. Changes
in projects area to be subject to GOI approval.
B.   Share capital.  Seed growers together would own up to 50% of the equity
shares, the balance being with State Government and NSC. NSC's minimum equity
holding would be 15% of the total issued capital or 20% of the equity capital.
Preference shares, cumulative, 11% to be held equally by NSC/Government, would
not exceed 25% of the paid up capital. Shares allocated to growers but not
subscribed by them within 3 months, would be temporarily subscribed equally by
NSC and State Government and transferred to any eligible grower immediately
upon request. However, such subscription would only take place after the
other subscribed shares had been fully called up, and only if necessary to
raise equity capital required by financing institutions. NSC/ Government
would not be candidates in elections to Board of Directors representing
growers by virtue of holding such proxy shares. At least 25% of state
government's shares would be held by the Agricultural University and up to
25% by other State agencies.
C.   Management.  A Board of Directors would be elected by the shareholders,
except for upto 3 members nominated by GOI. Elected positions would be split
between groups of shareholders on the basis of proportional representation.
One of the nominated directors would be a representative of the Bank parti-
cipating in the project financing of the SSC. The chairman would be either
the Vice-Chancellor of the Agricultural University or the Secretary of Agri-
culture. The Managing Director would be a Government nominee on the Board,
and would be appointed with GOI concurrence subject to Board approval.
Secondment of staff from other agencies would be restricted to maximum one
year.
D.   Operations.  SSC would sell all seed outside the state through NSC, and
not deal directly with either State Governments or other agencies. NSC would
sell all seed in the state through the SSC. All foundation seed would be
procured by SSC for its gorwers through NSC. NSC would be contracted to do
turnkey plant construction for SSC. Existing NSC plants in the project
areas would be taken over by SSC at a price to be determined by a NSC/SSC
joint evaluation. Contract production outside the project area by NSC would
be phased out to match increased production within the project area. SSC would
not produce seed outside the project area.



ANNEX 9
Appendix 1
Page     2
E.   Financial Aspects.  Prices would be determined for inter-state trade
with NSC. Intra-state prices may be below ex-plant production costs only
if the SSC financial reserves position is sound, and debt servicing or
guaranteed divided payments are not affected adversely. Local seed retail
prices would be at least the same % premium above local grain prices, as
the % premium applicable on inter-state trade. SSC would ensure profit-
ability so as to gradually build up four special funds for expansion,
replacement, loan redemption and research support to the following levels.
(a) Plant replacement: to be built up over 5 years prior
to anticipated replacement, to provide 30% of cost of
replacement;
(b) Plant expansion: to be built up over 5 years prior to
anticipated expansion (next one in 1980) and to provide
30% of cost of expansion, so that the balance may be
borrowed from commercial banks;
(c) Loan redemption: to be built up within 2 years to borrowing
and to equal the annual debt service; and
(d) Research: to equal 5% of total retained earnings and be used
to finance problem specific seed research at Universities or
research institutes. Research funds would be held as segregated
current assets. Others would represent allocations of earnings,
so as to be available for use as seasonal working capital, if
necessary.



INDIA                              ANNEX 9
Table 1
NATIONAL SE PROJECT
$C Staffing Pan
---------Project Year--           ---       Average Monthly
Poaiton              1          2           3            Is           S9laryi/
_(Re.)
Managing Director            1           1          1          11            2,500
Company Secretary         1          1           1          1             1,500
Personnel Officer         -          1           1          1             1,500
Office Superintendent    1           1           1          1             1,200
Division
Prftion
Chief                     1          1           1          1             2,000
Seed Production Officer  2           2          3           3             1,500
Seed Production Aast.   20          20,         30         30               800
LtAy*ting & Qulity Control
Chief                     1-         1           1          1             2,9000
Quality Control Officer   I          1           1          1             1,500
Maret Analyst             1          1           1          1             1,200
Market Development and
Extension Officers      1           1          I          1,            1,5bo
Sales, Trnaport &
Distribution Officer   1           1           1          1             1,500
.ar4"Asst                 4          4           6          6               800
QualftyCoatrol Ast.       2           2          3          3               800
Processing                   See staffing pattern, procesaing plant---7
Accounting & Finance
Controller                1          1           1          1             2 000
Audit & Cost Control
Officer                 -          1                1            1
Accounts Officer          2           2                     22  2         1,500
Accounting Aast.                      4 li       4          4                800
Audit Asst.                           2          2          2                800
General
Clerk & Typists           4           6          6          6                500
Drivers                   3           5          6          6                30C)
Attendants                4           6          8          8                20CC
r- 
1/ For typical SSC; may vary between states.
^2/ Excluding benefits, uptQ about,40%.



MaIOUL SD acT
Project Iplmentation Schhale
Critical Path to Reach BEfectiveres
Likely                           b.rliest       latest       Total Slack Time
Coce      Activity yame                                         ieisonaibility                    Start          Finish       Avil      i  Loop
1, 23     Amend Seed Act to restrict movmnt
of "local" seed                                         24         GOI                 1 Apr'76      1 Oct'76               4
1, 3      1977-78 Breeder & Foundation Seed Plairng                4          NSC/ICAR           1 Apr'76      1 Ju1'76               8
3, 26     Breeder & Foundation seed production allocation          4         ICAR                11May'76        Aug'76               d
1, 4      TCR  for CSCB technical assistance areed                 4         ID/00I              1 Apr'76      1 Sept'76             16
4, 24     CSCB technical assistance procured                      10         (OE                 1 Kay'76      15   vT'76            16
1, 15     Seed Certification &genCy bylwas agreed                 14         IBRD/GOI            1 Apr'76      1 Sept'76             16
5, 24     Seed Certification Agencies registered & staffed        10         GOI/State Govt.    1 May'76       15 Nov'76             16
1, 7      TOR  NSC technical assistance agreed                     4         IBRD/NSC            1 Apr'76      15 Sept'76            18
7, 8      NSC technical assistance procured                        8         IBRD/NSC            I Nay'76      15 Nov'76             18
1, 9      NBC engineering cell strengthmned                        6          NSC                1 Apr'76      15 Nov'76             24
9, 27     Processirg plants designed and built                    95          NSC/SSC            1 Jul'76         Apr'78              1
1, 10     CSCB & Central Seed Comittee composition agreed          4         IBRD/GOI            1 Apr'76       15 Oct'76            22
10, 20    CSCB & CSC reconstituted                                 4          GOI                1 MY'76        15 Nov'76            22
1, 11     Seed DOand Survqr/Report                                16          NSC                1 Apr'76          1976
11,20     Phase II Appraisal                                       4         IBRD                15 Aug'76        1976
1, 20     NSC/TDC etc. 1975-76 marketing evaluation                2          JWP                1 Apr'76       20 Apr'76             1
1, 2      All large farm developent planning initiated             2          NSC/SFCI/UNIV      1 Apr'76      1 Jure 76              6
2, 30     Fam mechinery (& budget) for all large
farms prnpre                                            12         SFCI/U6IV           15 Apr'76     Aug'76                 6
2, 29     Farm development plannizg for all large fares           24          SFCI/INIV          1 Apr'76       Jan'77                6
1, 6      Participatirg banks selected and agreedl/                2          ARDC/SSC           1 Apr'76       1 Jul'76             10
6, 12     ARDC/PCB agree1nent                                      4          ARDC/PCB           lg Apr'76      1 Aug'76             10
12, 13    PCB/SSC Agree1ent/                                       4          PCB/SSC            15  5ay'76     1 Sept'76            10
1, 14     SSC  registered and MD appointed'                        2          State Govt.        i Apr'76       15 APr'76           None*
14, 16    WC/W80  prolect azreinents                               6          NSC/SSC            15 Feb'76      15 Apr'76             2
14, 17    SSC  key staff appointed                                 8          SaC                15 Apr'76      1 Jul'76              2
17, 25    NSC/SSC seed progr_K haridoe 1r4                                    NC/SSC             15 Jun'76      Jul'76                2
18, 19    Existizg plants'  luation*                              16          NSC/SSC            15  hy '76     15 SePt'76          None
16, 25    Interim equipment orders and delivery                   20         BC                  15 Jun'76      1 Jan'77              6
25, 31    Interim equipment installatio                          16          YSC/SSC            15 Nov'76      Apr'77                6
19, 23    Estirw plants transfer*                                  8          NSC/SSC            15 Sept'76    15 Nov'76            None
20, 21    Negotiations                                             2          IBRD/WOI/NSC/SSC   15 Apr'76     1 May'76              -
21, 24(A) 001/ARDC subsidiary loan agreent                         4          00I/ARDC           1 MIay'76      15 Nov'76            22
(B) Credit signing, legal opinions, etc.                    16         IBRD/GOI/HSC/ARC   1 Hay'76       15 Nov'76             -
TIIM TO  TFETIVUSSS:  10 Weeks (15 Nov'76)
Critical activities are  arked *; arW delay in these wvxld delay effectiveness,
I/ Agreement relating to speedy financing of interim capacity to be installed by April'77.
2/ Slack time available for an activity is reduced, as total slack is used up by other activities on same loop
March 22, 1976






ANNEX 9
Chart I
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION & INSTITUTIONAL RELATIONSHIPS1/
|CAR  ID         C            L: A      Re                                                    PSPr
!GROWERS|
ARDC   Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CSC      Central Seed Committee
CSCB    Central Seed Certification Board
GOI      Government of India
GOS      State Governments
ICAR         Indian Council of Agriculture Research
NSDC    National Seed Development Council.
PCB      Participating Commercial Banks
PSP      Private Sector Processors
PMMC   Project Management and Monitoring Committee
SAU      State Agriculture Universities
SCA      State Seed Certification Agencies
SSC      State Seed Corporations
1 l Achieved by membership of Board of Managements.                                             World Bank-15712(R)






INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
NSC: ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MANAGING DIRECTOR
FblMC                               COMPANY SECRETARY|
SECRETARIAT                              B LEGAL ADVISER
SDTE                                                                                                                                                        COSTE:CIF   CONTROL      DEELMN &|ESTABLS&E
DISEED UNIT    |   | OlSTRIDUTION   |                                                                                                     P DEVELOPMENT  &
> Ch,nt Prodactron would con-tIue to lk after anV NSC teed production till treed-  In SSC;
7Proe..... Eg plts- ,n- heedd do, .o SSC. -.ld he .eaged by Chtel. Prejents ehd EnginleeinO;
-  Breedet seed mspac lon will bh handled here, any NSC rponpt .ilrtie te oWrtiinaion wnuld be. 
antil teenslerted to SCA, handled herr.                                                                                                                                                                                                          Word B-k-156484R)






INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
SSC: ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MANAGING DIRECTOR
COMPANY
SECRETARY &
CHXMARKETING &                                                      P     M GACCOUNTING &
PRODUCTIONQDSTRLBUTIONNMRKET PLANNINGNAN&
SEED PRODUCTIONSAE                              MAKTPANNACUSADI&
|  QUALITY       l
CONTROL OFFICER
World Bank-15645   H '0






INOIA
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
C,ialI Path AN,alysis to RfCh Loan Eff.tOioOOo
NSCI SSCI SEED PROGRAM
SSC KEY STAFF APPOINTED        to   2=YOL PLAN
P 17LA
r T o/                                             *            DPi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ODERED 8.DELWVESY      IN"E  EQIMETISTLE
L-~~~j          EXISTING PLANTSEYALUA      ~       ~      ~                                             UIrERDIIE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1pis
DONATION   35  VeERIESD                                    RDC/P 5  A       N
BA  12      GREFME                                     1C... A' R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A   o incitcI D,we
O                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~FARM MACHINERY P   N N IG 
j_j / / ~~~~ALL LARGE FARMS DEVELOPMENT  
F        8    /           ~~~~~~PLANNING hI-TIATED                                                                                                              .       
r // / _ _ FARM DEVeLOPMENT PLANNING s JAN. 77 i~~~~2                                                                                                    GOU/ARC AGREEMENTS >\
\. // / N~~~~~SC/ TDC/ 6OVT /PVT SECTOR 1975-78 MARKETING EXPERIENCE EVALUATED   r t
^  Zf  - E >/ 3 = 4 14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                                                                  SIGNNGEALOIOS ETC  1   FiCTIVENES%
76   De   t   _  _  lXJ / ->~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O C                                                         7
'D    ANS    ACV                                                                 lOA   SEE                                                         o  \PCB LOANS
L 4 -t\\ CSC & % PHASE lB~~~~~~~~~~~1 APPRAISAL tCN
GSCU RE' ONST11UTION ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ot R,-Si2R
L)      \\\\\            ~~~~OR NIEG E~NGGEH*A                        NSC TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROCURED            12  30/                                                      ,
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                  ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \       \4/  F.RS'T GENERATI.. PLANTS 
A2    \  \\\\                        ~~~~~~~~NSC ENGINEERING CELL STRENGTHENEiD                                           12      y       D DEINED 81 BUILT
SEEDFYAW CETIFIECADTION AGENCIES        t          SCA RUGISTEE ... .E/l D                                                                                 XN                       d
\\\                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TOffi TECHNICAL ASSISTA~NCE FORCSFARE 
CRITICAL  ~          ~~~ PAT                                              FON\  UO  SEE PRDCTO  ALLOCATEDon ctv
T~~~~~~~ x4                                                                                                                                                                               .-w t92 24t
DURATION 30 WEEKS  \                                                                                                                 _    Cravetal tzero slank ;me} acilsstles                            t5~~~~~~~~~~~~y L,, ..,h  ,-,bI .,Z II 
\                                                                                                            AnY *bt m cr/rics 5CtvtEtEs                                          cf ;'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N.d Nb-
\                                                                                                       AM END   SE ED    ACT    TD   RESTRICT MOVEMENT OF *OCAL SEED wltl delae efectlveness da_t - e   d W   fvo  
.3 :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rld akt73R






INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Long Range Implementation Schedule
ITEM                            FY76                FY77               FY78                 FY79               FY80
A.   SSC (i) Processing Plants                    V_4sss s          _    _
(ii) Interiem Equipment
B.   NSC Vegetable Seed Units                     7FA_sA     _  _
C.   Private Sector Companies                      WAIsIIIs IsIII
D.   Agriculture Universities                      m IIII_I_I_
E.   Large Farm Development              WA-ssIEIUI*ss      a  _      _   _
F.   Canal Remodelling                      "A__.
G.   Quality Control
H.  Bulk & Transit Storage               __sssss  _ * * _  _  _
Plant Design    CSCB    Processing
I.   Training & Technical Assistance                       a_   _ _
I.   Training & Technical Assistance    Demand Survey  Marketing                   Demand Survey
I           -
Seed Technology Research
..  I
'   ~~~~ Design
*UEhEEEhhhhhhI Financing
* -  _        _ * Procurement
- ~~~Construction  ;
World Bank-15881
C+i



I



ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Lending Operations
General
1.        Most project investments would be financed by loans from partici-
pating commercial banks, at commercial interest rates. In addition to long-
term investments under the project, banks would also undertake to provide
seasonal credit to SSC for seed inventory purposes. Investments in reserve
stocks, training and technical assistance, and research, would be GOI grants.
A. Seed Growers
2.        Seed growers would be selected from among farmers in the project
area for their progressive agricultural operations. Most would already have
access to assured irrigation, and to a tractor for timely operations. Thus
need for farm investment credit is expected to be small. Any loans required,
say for on-farm lined channels, or underground pipe linking two wells, would
easily be met by banks operating in the project area. Should the need for
refinance from ARDC arise, the SSC would assist its lending bank to draw
up a scheme for such on-farm financing of seed growers' needs, and submit
it to ARDC. Under IDA credit 540-IN, ARDC has sufficient funds for such
purposes.
3.        Seed growers would need short-term credit for agricultural inputs.
Although most seed growers finance working capital to a large part from own
sources, certainly within 3 years of starting seed production, institutional
finance is available mostly through cooperative banks (90%) and some through
commercial banks (10%). Under NSP, state cooperative banks would continue
to be the prime source of seasonal credit for seed growers. The cooperative
banks are refinanced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) at about 2% below
the bank rate (9%). RBI limits the maximum borrowing of cooperative banks,
but only rarely do the banks fully use their credit limits. In any event,
RBI maintains flexibility so that no worthwhile proposals suffer due to
scarcity of funds.  It often lends to State Governments to invest in the
equity of cooperative banks in order to enable them to borrow more from RBI.
Thus RBI refinance is not expected to be a constraint. The quantum of RBI
finance is multiple of the cooperative banks own resources (deposits + equity).
The multiple, ranging from 1 to 4, depends upon the audit classification
(related to overdues) of the cooperative bank. This results in the definition
of a per unit area credit limit for farmers which often is below the input
needs for seed production.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
4.        Working capital needs for seed production of self-pollinated crops
is only 15-20% higher than that for commercial cultivation. Thus, availabil-
ity of bank seasonal credit would not be a constraint to seed production,
especially for wheat or paddy. However, for hybrid seed cultivation, where
working capital needs increase by 50-70%, a problem does exist, since the
loan limit for seed production often needs to be significantly higher than
for crop production. State Governments would ensure that seasonal credit
limits for seed production would be set by the State Cooperative Bank in
consultation with SSC.
5.        Commercial banks invariably provide working capital support to all
farmers whose on-farm investments they finance. Even though the interest
rate is generally higher than that of cooperative banks, given the simpler the
procedures and greater efficiency, it does not deter the farmers from borrowing.
6.        All seed sales of project seed growers would be through SSC.  Thus
SSC would be in an ideal position to provide collection services to banks from
farmers. The SSC would offer these services to commercial banks as well as
cooperative banks. The latter would be through the central cooperative bank,
acting as agent of the village cooperative societies from which the seed
growers would actually borrow. For those seed growers who do not have access
to a cooperative society, SSC would seek to arrange for seasonal credit from
the SSC's lending commercial bank.
B. Large Farm Development
7.        Farms of the State Farm Corporation of India (SFCI) and Agriculture
Universities would be developed to produce certified and foundation seeds
respectively. Loans to finance up to 75% (but maybe as low as 50%) of the
investments would be provided through participating banks selected by ARDC
in consultation with the borrowers. The loan proposal would be prepared by
the borrowers in two parts. The first would provide a farm mechanization
proposal, supported by a farm budget and a simple cash flow statement. The
second would be a detailed farm planning exercise including topographical,
soil, and ground water surveys, and a work plan for farm development. Sup-
porting financial statements would be required for SFCI. Also a Government
guarantee for principal and interest repayment would be provided. In addi-
tion, the Agriculture Universitiers would be required to create separate
operating and accounting units for the seed operations and make arrangements
for separate collection and disbursement procedures. The balance of the
investment funds would be provided by GOI for SFCI and by State Governments
for the Agriculture Universities. ARDC would refinance up to 90% of partici-
pating bank loans to SFCI and Universities.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
C. Seed Corporations
8.        NSC and SSC would need credit to finance:  (a) processing plants
and storage; and (b) inventory of processed seed between processing and sale.
Loans for fixed investments would finance up to 70% of investments, the bal-
ance being financed from share subscriptions (either equity or preference).
ARDC would select one commercial bank in the State to be the SSC lending bank
and refinance up to 90% of its loans to SSC. Loan requests for NSC/SSC plant
and storage investments would be prepared by NSC and submitted to the partici-
pating banks. The request would include detailed investment proposals, plant
location, a cash flow statement, report of SSC's financial condition and
management. The participating bank and ARDC would scrutinize the request and
agree to disbursement procedures. Advance payment of up to 20% may, at ARDC
discretion, be provided to cover any ordering or engineering costs, though
they would normally be covered by equity contributions.
9.        Working capital financing for seed inventory would come from parti-
cipating banks against hypothecation of seed stocks. The participating banks
would normally have adequate funds to cover the working capital needs. How-
ever, seed is a key agricultural input, like fertilizer, and its stocking
prior to use should not be allowed to suffer by any constraints on the re-
sources of the participating banks. Thus GOI would constitute a consortium
of participating banks, along the lines of an existing consortium for ferti-
lizer stocking. The banks in the consortium would agree to assist each other
in meeting the working capital needs of the NSC, SSC and the private sector
processors. GOI would undertake to relieve any legitimate resource con-
straints the consortium may face in seed inventory financing. Should NSC,
SSC or private sector processors find difficulty in obtaining adequate
seasonal credit for their working capital needs, or the private sector proces-
sors find that they are not being treated at par with the SSC, they would see
GOI assistance through the PMMC. SSC requirements for seasonal credit for
working capital are likely to reduce as SSC build up its reserves and by 1980
it should be possible to discontinue the consortium.
D. Private Processors
10.       Loans would also be available to private sector processors for
plant investment needs on the same terms as to NSC/SSC. Loan proposals for
them would be prepared by Agricultural Finance Corporation while NSC would
review the technical details and plant designs. Participating banks would be
selected by ARDC after a short list of participating processors is established
by NSC. Loan proposals would be supported by confidential statement of
financial position, history of seed production, and NSC technical comments.
Up to 70% financing would be provided for fixed assets. ARDC would provide up
to 90% refinance to the participating bank. Private processors would be
provided with credit to develop research farms on the same terms as for SFCI
or Agriculture Universities. Proposals would be supported by detailed farm
plans and machinery lists.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
E. Credit for Other Institutions
11.       Bulk storage would be constructed by the Central Warehousing
Corporation (CWC) and leased to NSC.  CWC would be financed by a participating
bank to be selected by ARDC. Investment proposals would be prepared by CWC
and presented to the bank, supported by detailed cost estimates, storage
availability and use statement, CWC financial position, and a contract with
NSC for long term lease. The participating bank would finance up to 70% of
the investment costs, and the balance of 30% would come from CWC reserves or
from additional GOI equity contribution to CWC. ARDC would refinance up to 90%
of bank loans.
12.       The transit stores, and even some of the bulk stores may be owned
by the State Warehousing Corporation (SWC). Other transit stores would be
owned by NSC. Loan proposals would include detailed designs, in case of SWC,
approved by CWC, and a justification for location and size.
F. Lending Terms and Conditions
Borrower:                India
Beneficiaries:           National Seeds Corporation; State Seed Corporations
and Agriculture Universities in Andhra Pradesh,
Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab; State Farms
Corporation of India, Central and State Warehousing
Corporations, Haryana Agro Industries Corporation;
and private sector processors.
Relending Terms:         (i)  From GOI to ARDC
Repayable over 15 years at 7% per annum minimum
net of any prompt payment discounts. Interest on
capitalized interest, if any, to be at same rate
as on principal.
(ii)  ARDC to Banks
Interest at 8% minimum net of any prompt payment
discounts; repayment to coincide with payments by
ultimate borrowers; refinance of up to 90% of bank's
loans.
(iii) Banks to Borrowers
Interest at 11% minimum; grace period as necessary;
loans to finance up to 70% of NSC/SSC/CWC/SWC/SFCI/
private sector processors investments, repayment
over 5-15 years, as suitable.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
(iv) GOI to Agriculture Universities
Interest at 9% minimum; loans to finance at least
60% of project investment in farm development,
Repayment over 10-15 years.
Lending Conditions:  (i)       For Banks to SFCI
Submission of detailed farm planning proposals,
including soil, topographical and ground water survey,
farm mechanization and land development plans, cash
flow statements to be provided; minimum financial
rate of return to be 20%, with suitable cash flow.
A Government guarantee for repayment of principal and
interest would be provided if banks so desire.
(ii)     Banks to SSC/NSC
Detailed investment proposal, supported by technical
review and plant design by NSC, to be submitted,
including cash flows and financial position.
(iii)    Banks to CWC/SWC/NSC
Investment proposals to be made by the institutions
themselves; for SWC, technical approval of CWC. For
CWC proposal, a CWC/NSC lease back contract, and NSC
agreement to the technical specifications would be
required. CWC to also provide overall storage capacity
availability and use statement to justify expansion
and choice of location and size.
(iv)    Banks to private processors
Loan proposals for processing plant to be prepared
with technical review of plant design by NSC. Any
research farm development proposals to provide details
as at (i) above, excluding Government guarantee.
(v)    GOI to Agriculture Universities:
Details same as (i) above, excluding Government
guarantee.
(vi)
All sub-loan proposals would include detailed
implementation schedules.






INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
FLOW OF PROJECT FUNDS
LOANSTHROU GH       IDA/IERD                      ! _   GRANTS THROUGH GOI'- _
G          FUNOS                            - - -_                                                       -----------
NSC
FOR TECHNICAL                                                                                   CENTRAL
ASSI STANCE &                          ICA                          STATE                     SEDCENTRAL-
RESERVE STOCK                                                    GOVERNMENTS                  SEED CETFI-
SCHEME
r  ,  r ~ 1 _ s            STATE
<  ;v1  I   I                      l            I                    SEED
ERC                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CERTI FICATION
FAGENCIES
BANK    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~RSARHIFR EQUICPMENT,
NST E                               T N                           BUILDING, OPERATING
FOR BREEDER                            LABS          I                  TECHNICAL
LOANS THROUGH GOI AND STATE GOVERNMENTS          SEED                                  P                             ASSISTANCE
l   l    STATE                     MAJOR
AGRICULTURE                          IRRIGATION
Ns(                                                                                                  ( HARYANA'
|  PRIVATE   |                         |    SFCI             FOR VEGETAL F           FOR PLANTS                R |   FARM                                               FOR CANAL
FORCELANTS           FOR STORAGE            FOR FARM              SEEDS &                 AND              DEVELOPMENT             DEVELOPMENT &
DEVELOPMENT           MARKETINO           ESTABLISHMENT                                  BREEDER SEED
X   4   ,$  EQUITY  *                                    i               TECHNOLOGY CENTERSr
t~~~~~~---   --~~---    ----~~~~~                                     r-------  i-------- '                -     - - - - - - '
1~~~~~~~~~ ~~~LOANS
V  1                          SEED                       'STATE GOVERN- I                                             -       _GRANTS
PR OC ESSOR S                                  GNCLUDINGAUOR AOENC ES GROWE S                                M ENT5                                                    -E-----EOUITY
Additmon of GOI f.nding would be nnnsar, y.
2 Some of their own funds are added to IDA funds for Onleoding by ARC and Banks. '
- In some cases afte warehousing corporations may be -o.lved.
4/ Haryana for farm dewlfopm,nt. by Agro Industries C.rpor-uoW                                                                                                                                  n
World B-nk-156500l






ANNEX 11
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Demand, Marketing & Pricing
Introduction
1.        Demand for certified seed is related to growth of areas under
high yielding varieties (HYV). While the latter has increased at about 19%
annually over 1969-74, the increase in the former is not known. Seed supply
has kept pace with the expansion of HYV areas, also growing at about 20%
annually over 1969-75. However, expansion of HYV areas had begun to slow down
(Table 1) and is expected to be about 9% annually over 1975-80. What effect
this would have on seed demand is not known. However, since some seed sur-
pluses - mainly maize and sorghum-resulted in the 1974-75 season when NSC
increased its output and sales by about 50%, it is possible that supply and
demand have reached a better balance. Stimulation of demand through agressive
promotion, marketing and pricing is essential for further expansion of seed
industry.
A. Demand
2.        A realistic assessment of market demand for certified seed is
essential. In the past, oversupply in one year, due to unrealistic demand
projections, led to enormous financial losses in the seed industry and a
severe jolt to seed production in subsequent years. Factors determining cer-
tified seed demand are complex. Not only agronomic and economic considera-
tions, but'also farmers' traditions and attitudes have to be taken into
account. Except for hybrids, demand is also affected by the fact that cer-
tified seed can be readily substituted by farmers' own grain. There is a
scarcity of data regarding factors which affect certified seed demand. To
determine a realistic scope for the first phase of NSP, a base demand esti-
mate for major crops has been arrived at by:
(a) projecting area under HYV by 1978-9, based on past and
likely future trends;
(b) projecting seed replacement rates for different agro-
ecological regions, based on past data;
(c) projecting the proportion of annual area coming under
HYV likely to be sown to certified seed; and
(d) comparing projections with seed industry growth trends.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
HYV Program Performance
3.        Table 1 summarizes the growth since 1969 of area under HYV of the
five major cereal crops. Over 1969-74, area under HYV grew at an annual
rate of 19%, but increased by only 2.5% over 1973-74. It is projected that
over 1975-79, area under HYV would grow at 9% annually to reach 40% of total
area under these crops.
Seed Replacement
4.        Seeds of self-pollinated crops, like wheat and paddy, should be
replaced every four to five years. However, certified seed demand for
replacement depends upon a number of factors:
(a) where climatic conditions (high humidity and temperature
during the storage period) affect the viability of seed
stored on-farm, commercial seed demand is high;
(b) in grain surplus States, since grain prices are low, the
seed grain price ratio is less attractive than in deficit
States, where the grain prices are high; conversely,
seed/grain quality ratio is usually less in surplus than
in deficit areas;
(c) for transplanted crops, like paddy, and in some cases
millet, low germination rate of ordinary seed does not
affect yields, and certified seed demand is low.
Table 2 summarizes the certified seed replacement rates assumed for various
States, based on the above factors.
5.        The estimated additional area coming under HYV annually is indicated
in Table 3, along with total HYV area in 1980-81 for individual States and
crops. For seed producing States, it is assumed that 50% of the growth in
HYV area would be achieved through farmer-to-farmer exchange of seed, while
for other areas it is assumed to be 15%.
6.        Table 3 gives the estimated statewise demand for individual States
and crops, summarized below:
Certified Seed Demand (1980-81)
(tons)
Wheat                   105,800
Paddy                   42,360
Maize                    17,570
Millet                   20,400
Sorghum                 29,020
Total                  215,160



ANNEX 11
Page 3
Vegetables
7.        Data are not available to estimate the effective demand for vege-
table seed. About 21,000 tons of vegetable seed would be required to fully
meet the recommended consumption of 280 gm per day. Present production is
estimated to be about 9,000 tons. It is estimated that seed demand can be
increased by 50% over the next five years.
Demand Survey
8.        The above demand estimates are suitable only for the purpose of
establishing a reasonable scope of the initial investments under phase I of
the NSP. These investments are planned to create capacity to meet the full
demand up to 1978 or 1979. It is necessary before any additional investments
are made, to improve demand forecast by an extensive seed demand survey and
analysis of the results. The proposed study, already initiated by NSC, would
be in two parts. Terms of Reference are in Appendix 1. The first part would
involve a 50,000 farmer survey in 6 eco-agronomic regions and extrapolation
of survey findings to a national basis. The survey would be conducted by
the Institute of Agricultural Research Statistics following a questionnaire
already agreed with the Bank. The second part, to be done by National Council
of Applied Economic Research (NCAER) would concentrate on establishing and
analysing the factors affecting future demand for certified seed. These
would be combined with the farmer survey in a final report by NCAER. The
report would be available to the Bank before a phase II project is appraised.
B. Marketing
9.        Only about 2-3% of all seed used enters commercial marketing chan-
nels. Another 8-10% is bought and sold locally through village coopera-
tives. For seed marketed commercially, there are two marketing systems.
Seed produced by State Agriculture Universities or on goverment farms are
marketed through village cooperatives or government extension agency. These
seeds are often unprocessed, and frequently not certified. Generally small
quantities of foundation seeds are released and further spread takes place
through informal multiplication by farmers. The expansion of HYV areas in
States like Punjab and Haryana is believed to have taken place through this
process.
10.       On the other hand commercial seed producing agencies, like NSC
and Tarai Development Corporation (,DC), have developed elaborate marketing
networks. For example NSC uses three different channels:
(a) State governments and their agencies;
(b) private dealers; and
(c) its own sale outlets.



ANNEX 11
Page  4
A major part (about 60%) of NSC total sales are now through State Governments
who place firm advance orders for seed, arrange for transport and distribution
and usually set retail prices at low levels.  NSC has about 1,060 dealers,
about 50 being village cooperative societies. Typically these dealers handle
other seeds as well as other agricultural and non-agricultural commodities.
NSC sales through its dealers have declined from about 60% of the total sales
in 1972-73 to about 25% in 1974-75. NSC regional offices have retail out-
lets, about 85 in total. NSC sells about 15% of its seeds through these
outlets which provide NSC with market feedback.
11.       Private sector marketing differs with size of operation.  Smaller
ones are usually organized as producers associations or cooperatives and
involve local marketing of raw seed, "truthfully" labelled. Larger private
companies, about 6 in number, have well established marketing networks. They
sell certified seed and operate interstate. Most operate in Maharashtra,
Gujarat, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.
12.       Cooperatives are also active in seed distribution.  Invariably,
seed is produced for the cooperative by members and sold back to them in the
following season. Gujarat, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh together accounted
for 75% of total sales by cooperatives in 1973-74 (Rs 450 million compared
to Rs 100 million by NSC). In Gujarat, the State Cooperative Marketing
Federation itself produces and markets seed, while in Maharashtra, the Apex
Marketing Federation distributes seed produced by village organizations.
In Uttar Pradesh, the Apex Marketing Federation markets seeds produced by
the Department of Agriculture. GOI has a policy of one-point sale for all
agricultural inputs and in future more of the 44,000 existing cooperative
sale depots are likely to be involved in selling seed.
Future Marketing System
13.       NSC would act as the principal coordinator of all SSC production
intended for interstate marketing as well as become the wholesale distri-
butor in interstate marketing. Under this system supply and production
would be properly coordinated, transport costs minimized by rational move-
ment planning and bulk movement, bulk storage organized at optimal locations,
duplications of sales offices and dealers avoided, and seeds of all crops
and varieties made available with every dealer.
14.       In seed producing States, SSC would establish a retail seed dealer
network, using any existing NSC dealers. SSC would be free to choose their
dealers, whether private or cooperative, on the basis of the dealers' effec-
tiveness in seed marketing. For the seeds now not produced by the SSC,
NSC would supply seeds to SSC from other States. In States without SSC,
NSC would expand its retail dealer network. The network would include
private dealers. Cooperatives would be used to the maximum extent possible
(para 12). The marketing network of the State Agro-Industries Corporation



ANNEX 1 1
Page 5
or Cooperative Marketing Federation would be utilized for this purpose.  They
vould act as distributor, and underwrite the dealers' financial obligations.
They would operate under an agreeaent with NSC and receive a service charge of
0.5% out of the dealers' 10% commission.
15.       Wnen the NSP seed rarketing network is fully developed, each
Community Development Block; vould have at least four sale poinits.  Flowevet,
the number of dealers in any area would be related to the total quautity of
seed to be marketed to ertsure that each dealer would have a reasonable marlket
share.  HowNever where seed Is additional to a dealer's existLag operation,
this wcuLd be less important.  The merchandizing capal;li-y and past perform-
ance of dealers in selling other agricultural inputs would be givea import-
ance.  NSC contracts with dealers would clearly specify thelr responsibility
in sales promotion. Although market dexvelopment would primarily be NSC
responsibility, all dealers would be required to do a minimum amount of
publicity and advertisement and participate in meetings and denLonstrations.
NSCs would supply publicity material and undertake national advertising, and
work closely with the departments of agriculture.
NSC Marketing Organization
16.        Marketing would become the prime NSC activity.  The proposed market-
ing organization is shown on Chart I.  Three major activities - market dev-
elopment, storage and transport, and sale and supply - would be directed by
suitably qualif Led managers. Market development activities at USC Read-
quarters would focus on policy and national promotion or mass publicity. To
foster close contact between Lhe dealers and the NSC, dealership selection and
servicing would be the respon3ibility of NSC regional offices.  14arket promo-
tion would be performed from the regional office under the overall direction
of headquarters. This would ;ermit better adjustment to local situations.
This would require a shift from the current emphasis of regional offices on
seed production. A training program to re-orient NSC staff towfards seed
merchandizing is proposed (Annex 6).  Irn addition, each regional office would
have an extension specialist to work with State Government extension services
and to assist the dealers witil seed promotion. Biannual dealer meetings to
discuss market development would also be organized.
C. Prices
17.       Because of the easy substitution of comlmercial seed by farmers
own grain, seed demand is strongly linked to seed price and quality.  Prices
in informal farmer-to-farmer transactions can lhardly be higher thar. grain
prices since the seed is hardly different from grain. Prices fcr the small
quantities of seeds sold as part of government extension activities are kept
only fractionally higher than grain prices. Certified seed, on the other
hand, must be priced higher because:






ANNEX 11
Page 6
(a) on farm production-costs are 10-20% higher for self-
pollinated crops and up to 70% higher for hybrids
and in addition the seed grower has to be compensated
for increased risk (Annex 12);
(b) cost of processing, to remove broken and foreign matter,
and to treat;
(c) cost of certification;
(d) cost of storage under conditions that prevent loss of quaiity;
and
(e) cost of marketing, fixed and working capital and management
overheads.
Past Pricing Policies
18.       Generally, commercial seed prices of different producers have been
linked to NSC prices. The latter were determined by NSC on a cost plus basis.
Given the low volume of turnover, the overhead costs were high (37% in 1969
falling to 20% in 1974) resulting in high seed prices. This in turn dampened
sales volume.
NSC Seed Retail Prices
(Rs/ton)
1973-74    1974-75    1975-76
Wheat                  -         3,200      2,900
Paddy                  -         2,650      2,400
Maize                3,200       4,600      4,350
Pearl Millet         8,500      10,050      9,700
Sorghum              8,000       8,000      7,400
19.       Additionally, seed sales in grain surplus areas have been low be-
cause of NSC policy of maintaining a uniform national price. To avoid
certified seed consumption as foodgrain, seed prices have to be higher than
grain. However, movement of wheat and paddy has been restricted. Thus grain
prices in deficit areas are often twice as high as in surplus areas. With
uniform national price this meant that seed prices in surplus areas were up to
three times the farmer's selling price for foodgrair... Farmers in these areas
showed a natural resistance to purchasing certified seed and very little seed
was sold in these areas (Table 4).
20.       The seed market of the recent past was a sellers market with supply
of quality seed undoubtedly beldw demand. NSC undertook a major sales ex-
pansion in 1974-75 and increased supply by roughly 50-60%. A minor glut
resulted, especially in the hybrids, requiring all-around price adjustments.
With the expected slow down in the expansion of HYV areas to about 9% annually






ANNEX 11
Page 7
and increased seed production under NSP, supply would match demand more
closely and seed prices would not only have to be lower, but also would have
to be determined close to the marketing season and area.
Future Pricing Policies
21.       Selling prices under NSP would be characterized by:
(a) lower seed prices;
(b) dual pricing; and
(c) price competition among SSC.
22.       Reduced unit overhead costs because of increased turnover would re-
sult in lower seed prices. NSC over 1974-76 has been able to reduce selling
prices by 10-15% because of increased turnover. NSP policy would be for NSC
and SSC to charge a service charge to recover costs, passing the benefit of
increased turnover to the seed users.
23.       Dual pricing would replace the uniform national price.  A minimum
retail selling price in the Interstate market would be determined on a full
cost plus return on capital basis. However, price would, if necessary, be
higher than the minimum price to prevent seed consumption as foodgrain.
In the seed producing areas, the minimum retail price of seed would be deter-
mined by adding the same premium above grain retail price as applicable in
deficit areas. However, the financial viability of SSC would be the over-
riding criteria. GOI would administratively restrain the interstate move-
ment of seed sold by the SSC for intrastate use. This restriction would be
required only as long as movement of foodgrain is restricted.
24.       NSC seed procurement prices and retail prices would be determined
by NSC Board. Price competition among SSC would be encouraged by NSC offer-
ing to buy from all SSC only at the lowest ex-plant price offered by an SSC.
Seed procurement prices of NSC would be raised until the full interstate
needs are met. To ensure the availability of a buffer supply in case of an
emergency, NSC would offer to charge only half its normal service charge on
quantities procured from SSC above the guaranteed offtake.
D. Seed Storage
25.       Processed seed generally has to be stored for at least 4-6 months
before use. For rabi crops, this period includes the monsoon season. Care-
ful storage under safe conditions is crucial to maintain seed quality till
actual use. Storage immediately upon processing would be at plant (Annex 3).
For effectiveness in marketing, storage close to major railheads and consump-
tion points would be essential. High capacity bulk storages would be estab-
lished at five points between the processing plants and consumption areas.



ANNEX 11
Page 8
They would be located on major rail links, have a suitably dry climate for
year-round storage as well as proximity to consuming areas. Proposed loca-
tions, phasing and sizes are:
Year            Size
Location           Conplete         (tons)        Purpose
Varanasi (U.P.)         1977           15,000      Supply seeds to
Eastern States
Rampur (U.P.)           1979             5,000     Same as Varanasi
Coimbatore (T.N.)       1977             3,000     Supply paddy seeds
to Kerala
Srirampur
(Maharashtra)           1978             3,000     Supply hybrid crop
seeds to North and
East
Delhi                   1978             8,000     Supply East and South
from North, as well as
for vegetable seeds
26.       Upto sixty-four smaller transit stores for the wholesale needs of indi-
vidual market areas would also be established. Required additional capacity
for transit stores would be 11,500 tons by 1980.
27.       Total expenditure on the marketing network, mainly storage,. of
NSP is given in Table 6. The bulk stores would be owned-by- the Central
Warehousing Corporation (CWC) or its subsidiaries, the Stateia-rehousing
Corporations (SWC), and leased out to NSC on a long-term basisia CWC, a
Government of India undertaking, was created in 1962, with the purpose of
building and operating suitable warehouses, mainly for agro-industrial com-
modities. It operates 140 warehouses with a total capacity of 15 million
standard bags (or 9 million tons), average capacity utilization was about 80%
in 1974/75. Specifications far design would be agreed by NSC and CWC.
Locations have been agreed by NSC and CWC, but actual construction of Rampur,
being close to Delhi, would be contingent on a re-examination of its role in
1977-78. Transit stores would be put up by SWC in ]"cations where alternative
storage is not available; or by NSC, where the SWC are reluctant to put up new
stores, but where seed stores are important for NSC marketing strategy. Local
competitive bidding would be employed for letting out contracts for the
construction of these stores.



ANNEX 11
Page 9
E. Reserve Stock Scheme
28.       Under NSP it is proposed to build up reserve stocks of foundation
and certified seeds on the following grounds:
(i) seed production programs may be affected by adverse agro-
climatic conditions or pest-disease problems;
(ii) natural calamities like floods or long dry spells during
the monsoon season, in turn necessitating resowing or mid-
course correction in cropping programs, may give rise to
sudden, unanticipated demand for seed;
(iii) inability to judge farmer reaction to new varieties may
result in unexpectedly high demand for seeds of a newly
released variety;
(iv) for foundation seeds, reserve stocks become more critical
since foundations seeds have to be produced at least 2
years ahead of commercial seed; and
(v) periods of shortages-result in abnormally high seed prices
and the sale of sub-standard seed, and during periods of
glut that invariably follow, large surpluses result in
financial loss in the seed industry and economic losses
due to loss of production.
29.       The reserve stock scheme would be operated by NSC, for GOI, and be
initially confined to the major cereals. Quantities of seed to be kept in
the reserve stock (Table 7) would be related to the total demand estimates
of NSP. About 3% of anticipated demand for certified seed of self-pollinated
crops would be held in reserves; 10% for hybrid. Corresponding proportions
for foundation seed would be 10% and 50%. Certified seed reserve stock would
preferably be held at processing plants to minimize problems of quality
maintenance and blending, and to minimize condemnation losses, since seed
would be held untreated.
30.       Foundation seeds being more valuable and small in quantity would
be kept in air-conditioned and de-humidified seed stores. Cost of storage
of reserve stocks by various institutions like SSC, Agricultural Universities
or SFCI would be borne by NSC.



ANNEX   11
Appendix 1
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Seed Demand Survey
A. General
1.        The Natinal Seed Program for the development of the seed industry,
envisages the creation of several State Seeds Corporations and through them
a large expansion of seed production of major crops. The safe limit to this
expansion will be determined by the effective demand for seed of these crops.
Present seed demand information is inadequate. This survey will be a first
step in remedying this deficiency.
2.        No actual surveys have been concluded on the farmers' seed buying
habits, and projections of seed needs are based on projected growth of the
HYV area which in the past has been extrapolated with varying degrees of
accuracy. The figures of seed sales from public sources show that in areas
where farmers are able to carry over seed stocks, seed buying of an estab-
lished variety has declined dramatically in 4-5 years. Presently seed busi-
ness is shown to rely heavily on selling to areas that have storage problems:
wheat to West Bengal and Bihar, rice to Kerala. These studies have shown
the existence of the following components of seed demand:
(a) variety replacement;
(b) purchase by farmers unable to store through climatic reasons;
(c)  purchase by farmers unable to store for financial reasons;
(d) buying because the quality of purchased seed is higher than
that kept by the farmer himself; and
(e) growers buying hybrid seeds.
B. Scope of the Study
3.        The proposed study would establish present and future national
demand for certified seeds by farmers, in a ten year perspective. It would
also estimate the extent of this demand that would be met by the State Seeds
Corporation with the assistance of NSC, as against the established and up-
coming private suppliers.  Subsequent studies would focus also on seed mar-
keting or distribution.



ANNEX   11
Appendix 1
Page 2
C. Methodology
4.        There would be a two-pronged approach, conducted by two separate
agencies. The Institute of Agricultural Research Statistics (IARS) would
conduct farmer interviews according to a questionnaire agreed with NSC/IDA.
Some 20,000 of these would be completed in six states, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar,
Haryana, Kerala, Maharashtra and West Bengal. These states have been selec-
ted to broadly represent different agro-ecological regions in both food
surplus and deficit areas, in order that the data obtained can, by extra-
polation, be applied to the whole country. The respondents would be chosen
according to a stratified sampling method normally used by IARS.
Its summarization and extrapolation over the entire area of the crops in
question within the States and their HYV or hybrid component (as applicable)
would be done by the office staff of the Institute, who would also summarize,
tabulate and interpret the answers to the other questions, to give the pre-
sent situation in these States. After completion, their advice and assistance
in the next phase would be valuable.
5.        Concurrently with thee farmer survey, the National Council of
Applied Economic Research (NCAER) would conduct its part in the study. This
would involve a number of investigators (two per region) who would collect
back-up information and would be involved in the writing of the report. They
would be required to collect all relevant information that, together with the
farmer survey, will provide background data for a report.
For individual States:
(a) Area of wheat, rice, maize, sorghum and pearl millet in the
States, since 1970, district-wise.
(b)  The annual area actually under HYV or hybrids (as applicable)
since 1970, district-wise.
(c) Area brought under irrigation, year by year, since about 1970,
from all sources.
(d) Plans for irrigation development from all sources to 1985, as
far as they can be quantified.
(e) Data relating to quantities and prices of seed actually sold
to farmers by Government, NSC, TDC, State Seeds Corporations,
Cooperatives, and private producers annually since 1970.
Double counting is to be watched. Information regarding the
price of grain at the time of sowing in these areas since
1970, would be useful in case of self-pollinated crops. This
information is to be related to growth in HYV area and to the
HYV varieties traded in specific years to determine any
correlation between the two.



ANNEX   11
Appendix 1
Page 3
For Agro-ecological Regions:
(a) With a view of estimating likely future trends, following
discussions would be essential: interviews with the agri-
cultural extension workers, community leaders, progressive
farmers and a number of ordinary farmers, interviewed in their
fields.
(b) Plant breeding performances, especially the likely future
variety releases for identifiable ecological regions should
be evaluated. Future hopes must be judged against past
achievements. The agronomic suitability and economic advan-
tage of the variety must be evaluated in relation to the ones
currently grown, or already available to the farmers, to
judge farmer response.
(c) Discussion with University Agricultural Economics Department
regarding their relevant field studies will yield valuable
information.
(d) Likely market penetration of the private seed companies,
taking into account their present or future breeding capa-
bilities, and their ability to compete with the pricing and
other policies of the SSC's under NSP, should be evaluated.
(e) The pricing issues as it relates to demand for seed must be
thoroughly analyzed. To be meaningful, figures should be
expressed both numerically and as a percentage of the free
market grain prices. All analyses must be supported by
figures.
D. Reporting
6.        NSC would receive a draft report not later than 10 weeks after
the summarized and tabulated results of the farmer survey are made available
to NCAER. The report would consist of two parts: the main report and sup-
porting volumes. These latter would include the IARS questionnaire and
report, and sufficient data and additional information to enable the findings
of the main report to be substantiated.



ANNEX 11
TAble 1
INDIA
NATIONAL S,E PROJECT
HYV Targets and Performance
(million ha)
Total                                     V Plan Targets     Mission
Crop     Area              Actual HYV                   for HYV      Projections
1973-74    1969-70   1973-74  1974-75    1974-75  1978-79     1978-79
Wheat     19.0       5.1      10.9      11.7       12.1      15.9        14.7
Paddy     38.0       4.3       9.6      10.5       11.3      17.0        14.5
Maize      6.o       o.4       0.75      o.8        o.8       1.3         1.3
Sorghum  17.0        o.5       1.2       1.2        1.3       2.6        2.2
Bajra    13.6        1.1       3.3       2.2        3.5       5. 4O5
Total    93.6       11.4      25-75     26.h       29.0      41.8        37.2
Growth Rate        -     -    --------- 19%
-------------------------        9%
--- C 2.5%
Source:  GOI
March 22, 1976



ANNEX 11
Table 2
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Certified Seed Replacement Rates -
Crop
State              Wheat       Padd       Maize       Sorghum      Bajra
Punjab                3%        3%              All hybrids = 100%
Haryana               3%        3%
Uttar Pradesh         1.5%      3%
Andhra Pradesh        -         3%
Karnataka             -         3%
Tamil Nadu            -         5%
Kerala                -        50%
Assam                15%        3%
Bihar                 5%        3%
Orissa               10%        3%
W. Bengal            15%        3%
Madhya Pradesh        3%        3%
Maharashtra           3%        3%
Rajasthan             2%        3%
Gujarat               8%        -
1/ Proportion of certified seed in total seed applied to HYV areas;
balance being farmers own seed: or obtained through farmer to
farmer exchange.
Source:  GOI:  "Demand for Seed in V Plan"
March 1, 1976



TInDA
NATIONAL SEED PEJECT
Certified Seed DJamd ProjectLons
HYV Area (Growth rate) 1980-81                                Certified Seed Demnd 1980-81
(ha thousands                                                 (ha tiousaads)
Total
State                Wheat      Paddy      maize       millet      Scrhum           WPheat     Padtd maize             el1hlt Sethol.n
Andhra Pradesh          45(3)   2,000(100)    65          210         300             375      3,360         935         790       3,150             8,610
Karnataka              _          540(26)    250          120         525             -          675      1,225          450       5,670             8,020
Tamil Nadu             -        2,250(25)   125           515          95             _        3,715         250       1,930       1,000            6,895
Kerala                 -          350(25)    -            -           -               -        7,740         -           -           -               7,740
Assam                  170(15)    650(50)      10               -                   3,600      1,815         160         -           -               5,575
Bihar                2,000(50)  1,300(100)  550                       -            15,950      3,630       9,350         _           -              28,930
Orissa                 170(15)  1,100(100)  -                         -             2,725      3,450         -           -           -               6,170
W. Bengal              975(75)  2,000(150)   -            -           -            19,875      5,490         -           -           -              25,365
Haryana              1,350(75)    290(25)      15         430         -             7,575        615         240       1,610          -             10,040
Punjab               2, 350(50)    750(50)    20                      -              9,400     1,380        )A60         -            _             11,240
Uttar Pradesh        5,000(150) 1,750(100)   90            85         -             14,775      2.985        810         320          -             18,890
Madhya Pradesh       1,000(60)  1,300(75)      60          50         335           7,920       3,015        635         190        3,650           15,430
Maharashtra            700(50)      25(75)     25       ,liOO       1,400           6,200       2,510        385       5,250       14,700           29,045
Oujarat                385(10)    -            40       1,500          35           3,850         -          640       5,625          375           10,490
Rajasthan            1,225(75)    -            45       1,100         -              6,050        -          840       4,125          -             11,015
Others                 565(25)    830(50)   200            30      4__               7,525      1.970      1,640          110         475           31,720
Total               15,935(668)15.145(940)   149        5,440       2,735         105,820      42,350     17,570      20,400       29,020          215,160
March 22, 1976



ANNEX 11
Table 4
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Certified Seed Sales:  74-75/
States               Maize    Sorghum    Bajra       Paddy     Wheat      Total
Kerala                  -         -          -       4,G00        -       4,000
W. Bengal               100       -          -       4,300    14,800    19,200
Assam                    20       -          -       2,000       500      2,520
Bihar                 7,000       -          -       1,000    10,500    18,500
Karnataka               200     1,500        800       550        150     3,200
Tamil Nadu              100       800        800     2,000         20     3,720
Maharashtra             500     5,500      1,050     1,500      4,000    12,550
Andhra Pradesh          300     1,500        300     1,000        -       3,100
Orissa                   30       -          -         -          200       230
Madhya Pradesh          200       140         50       200      1,000     1,590
Haryana                  50       -        1,000       200        700     1,950
Punjab                  500       -           70       500        200     1,270
Rajasthan               100       -        1,000        50        200     1,350
Gujarat                 100        80     1,800      1,000     1,500      4,480
Uttar Pradesh           260       -          250     1,500      2,000     4,010
Others                   70       -           70       750        810     1,700
Total                 9,530     9,520      7,190    20,550    36,58o    83,370
1/ Production 1973-74
Source:  NSC/Mission estimates.
March 22, 1976



ANNEX 11
Table 5
INDIA
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
TOTAL SEED SALES BY NSC
(tons)
Program for
1969-70        1970-71        1971-72        1972-73        1973-74        1974-75        1975-76
Wheat             2,940          4,820          4,670          6,210          9,180          13,470         40,000
Paddy             1,800          3,750          3,750          2,520          5,070         12,920          20,000
Maize             1,350          1,520          1,450          2,460          2,710           3,630          9,250
Sorghum             410            990          1,180          1,960          1,490           2,920          4,500
Millett             160            160            150            700             460            800          2,500
Vegetables          470          1,060          1,970          1,960             520            300           n/a
Potatoes           -              -              -             3,220          3,230           6,190         10,000
Others            1,220          1,310          1,280          1,230             570            480          1,680
Total             8,350         13,610         14,450         20,260         23,230          40,710         87,930
SOURCE: NSC.
March 22, 1976



INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
MARKETING
SEED STORAGE: INVESTMENTS
(Rs.OOO)
___------ YEAR-------------
Item                            Cost/Unit         Units         1         2         3        4         Total Cost          % Foreign Exchange
(Rs.)                                                                 (Rs. 000)
Storage                         350/ton        34,000 tons      -      6,310    3,800    1,790          11,900                      -
Land & Development Costs         60/m          58,000 m2        -      1,850    1,130        520          3,500                     -
-     8,160    4,930    2,310           15,400                     -
Transit Stores
Storage                         350/ton        11,500 t ns      -      2,130    1,290       605          4,025                      -
Land & Development Costs         60/,2         33,000 m?         -                 630       300          1_980
-     3,180    1,920        905          6,005                     -
Conveying Systems
Bag Conveyors
Conveyors                        21,000              7          -         84        42        21            147                     30
Carts                               300           100           -         16        10         4             30                     10
Weighers                            110             20          -         12         7         3             22                     30
-       112        59        28            199                     30
Vehicles
Pick-ups (Transit Stores)        50,000            26           -        700       400       200          1,300                     25
Trucks (Bulk Stores)            120,000             5           _        360       120       120            600                     25
-      1,060      520       320          1,900                     25
Base Cost                                                   F L,561 2    7_ |
Contingencies:
Physical                                               -       625       370       177          1,173
Price                                                  -     1.135    1,431    1.160            3.726
TOTAL                            -     4,272    9,230    4,900           28,403
1/ 5 bulk stores at Delhi, Coimbatore, Srirampur, Varanasi, and Rampur.
2/ Transit stores of various sizes at about 60 strategic locations.
3/ Physical at 5%; price contingency based on following: local equipment: 1976 (i year) 7% and then onwards; local civil works, 1976 e year, 8%, and then
onwards 10%; foreign equipment 1976 ( year) 10%; 1977-79, 8%; and onwards 7/.



ANNEX 11
INDIA                                  Table 7
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Reserve Stocks
(tons)
Certified Seed                   Foundation Seed
Demand                              Demand
Crop      1980-81    % Buffer   Quantity    79-80        % Buffer   Quantity
Wheat     105,300         3         3,150       5,250        10         525
Paddy      42,300         2           860       5,250        10         525
Maize      17,500        10         1,750         180        50          90
Sorghum    29,000        10         2,900         720        50         360
Millett    20,400        10         2,040         240        50          120
214,500         5       10,700      11,640        14        1,620
March 1, 1976






INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
NSC: MARKETING ORGANIZATION
MANAGER                          MANAGER                                   MANAGER
(MARKET DEV.)              (STORAGE AND TRANSPORT)                    (SALES AND DISTRISUTION)
MARKET            F]                                                                                                                                 SA ES &
EEDEEVTENSELOTRANSPORTENTTRAGE                        EXPORT       DISTRIBUTION       SALES            MARKET          D EXTENSIo  DISTRIoBUtON
OFFICER                                                         [SjRVO            UPRIO          Su                                  OFFICER         OFFTE
World Bank-I 5649






ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Financial and Economic Analysis
A. Financial Analysis
Seed Growers
1.        Seed price premiums above grain price required to fully compensate
the seed grower for increased production costs and risks are determined on
Table 1. Production costs and yields for commercial and seed operations are
compared. Also, likely impact on income should the seed crop be rejected is
also shown. A seed grower faces two types of risk: (a) risk of seed re-
jection; (b) normal risk of farming. The former is about 5-20% depending
upon the seed crop. The latter increases as production cost increases raise
the farmer's financial exposure. Equating the expected income from seed pro-
duction after allowing for the-probability of seed crop rejection, to income
from commercial production compensates the farmer for (a). To compensate
him for (b), his expected income as a seed producer must exceed his income
as a food grain producer. The ratio of operating costs under the two
situations is used as a measure of the increased risk of farming. Seed
price premiums above grain price (farmgate) are determined so as to provide
an increase in expected income equal to increase in operating risk. The
required premiums are:
Wheat:                40%
Paddy:                33%
Maize:                75%
Millet:              200%
Sorghum:             125%
Cotton:               25%
Large Farm Development
2.        Tables 2 to 6 show the financial analysis of a model f a large SFCI
farm at Hissar. Yield and operating cost assumtpions are based on past man-
agement levels. However, recent changes in top management are likely to
improve operating efficiency. Investment costs for canal development, which
would be borne by Government with SFCI paying a water charge, are not in-
cluded. Output is seed, and is valued at projected certifLed seed procure-
ment prices of Table 1. The expected financial rate of return on incremental
investment is 22%. A cash flow projection (Table 5) indicates problems in
servicing loans for project investments on normal commercial terms (11% 70:30



ANNEX 12
Page 2
debt:equity, and 6 years to repay). A lower debt equity ratio of 50:50 would
be required to ensure adequate debt service capacity. Participating banks
would determine on-lending terms based on 4etailed farm development plans
and cash flow projections to be prepared by the sub-borrowers.
State Seed Corporations
3.        Projected income statement for the Andhra Pradesh SSC is shown in
Table 7. Ex-SSC prices are assumed to reach the following by 1980:
Wheat    :  1,950 (Rs/ton)
Paddy        1,650
Maize        2,800
Millett  : 4,900
Sorghum  :  3,800
4.        An allowance is made for intrastate price being 10% below inter-
state price.  Also, a 1% bonus to seed growers (equivalent to approximately
10% divided on share purchase) as a price adjustment, is provided.  Prefer-
ence shares earn 11%, and income taxes are assumed at 50%. The projected
financial return is 30% after tax and 50% before tax. The most significant
risk facing the SSC is uncertainty of seed demand. However, a large pro-
portion of costs is variable (80%) and thus the rate of return is insensi-
tive to sales volume.
5.        APSSC cash flow projections (Table 8) demonstrate its ability
to service project debts on the proposed terms (11% interest, no grace on
interest, 3-4 years grace on principal and 7 year repayment). Accumulation of
the four special reserve funds is also shown, and is expected to be adequate
to meet the needs for plant expansion and replacement, loan redemption,
and research support.
6.        Other SSC would have similar cost structures and cash flows.  Pre-
investment, detailed cash flow projections would be presented to participa-
ting banks to support loan requests. These would be available to the Bank.
National Seed Corporation
7.        NSC projected cash flow for certified seed marketing (Table 12) is
based on:
(a)  Continued staffing at present levels, but reorganization
to match new role;
(b)  Projected seed production of about 300,000 tons by 1981-82,
of which about 160,000 tons would be inter-state trade.
The cash flow analysis shows that a 5% service charge would be adequate to
fully meet costs at the throughput assumed. However, at a 75% lower through-
put the service charge required would be 7%. This is reasonable in relation



ANNEX 12
Page 3
to the 11% cost currently on a much lower throughput. Tables 13 shows
that operating costs of NSC's other services would be fully covered by
the proposed service charges. Vegetable seed operations are expected to
have a financial rate of return exceeding 50% (Table 14).
B. Economic Analysis
8.        Primary project benefits to the Indian economy would be increased
grain production, estimated at 900,000 tons by year 10. This represents
roughly 0.75% of the current national foodgrain production.
9.        Key assumptions and adjustments made in computing the economic
rate of return were that:
(a) The prices of investment and operating costs would
remain in real terms at mid-1976 levels.
(b) Foreign exchange has not been shadow priced.
(c) Incremental seed produced under the project would, in
the case of wheat and paddy, be used on areas already under
HYV, and would increase yields by 7-1/2% over four years,
before being replaced; in the case of hybrids, project seed
would be part of a package needed to shift farmers from
traditional to HYV cultivation; and only 25% of the yield
impact and net benefits would be due to improved seed.
(d) Increased production of wheat is valued at projected CIF
international prices for 1980 in 1976 terms; paddy since it
is not internationally traded, is valued at a projected CIF
international price derived from the rice price (this price
is roughly equal to what the local paddy price might be in
the absence of movement restrictions); hybrid grain are valued
market prices (ex-farmgate) since there are no distortions
due to movement restrictions, cotton seed is valued at twice
the cotton oilseed market price, which is the economic input
price for ICDP analysis.
(e) Incremental on-farm labor, required mainly during the peak
demand season for harvesting, is valued at the market wage
rate and not shadow priced; prices of imported inputs like
fuel and fertilizer are valued at the domestic prices since
these are comparable to international prices (e.g. urea
domestic price is 1850 Rs/ton compared to a cif price of
1825 Rs/ton).
(f) Skilled and semi-skilled labor for processing plant operations
is priced at the financial wage rate.



ANNEX 12
Page 4
(g) Cost of plant breeding, training, technical assistance, and
operation of the reserve stock scheme is charged to the project,
as are all administrative costs of SSC, and certification agen-
cies.
(h) Benefits due to farmer to farmer exchange of generations of
seed produced from project seed are not included;
(i) Incremental grain production beyond year 13 is excluded since
project processing investments end their economic life then;
(j) investment costs ($0.9 million) and benefits from vegetable
seed production (about 2,000 tons) and potatoes (5,000 tons)
are not included in the analysis due to the lack of objective
data on yield impact; however, both operations are financially
highly attractive, and there is no doubt about economic
justification; and
(k) average lag between benefits and production costs would be four
months. However, discounting at four month intervals would be
difficult because of the multiplicity of crops and production
areas. Thus a discounting period of 1 year is used, and average
working capital is included in investment costs as a surrogate
for discounting at 4 month periods.
10.       Based on these assumptions, the economic rate of return is pro-
jected to be about 65% (Table 15).
11.       A sensitivity analysis shows that if investment costs were 25%
higher, the rate of return would be 55%; if operating costs were 25% higher,
58%, and if benefit 25% lower, 45%; these are satisfactory.
12.       Economic rate of return for large farm development, based on
similar assumptions is 17% (Table 8).
13.       The reserve stock scheme is also economically justified.  Reserve
stocks would be used up once every two years - as a result of national or
regional calamity. Investment per annual ton in reserve stocks mainly
stocks and additional storage, is about 50% higher than other seed, while
operating cost per ton is the same. Without such stocks, some areas would
not be planted at all, and most would receive poor planting material.
Benefits would be at least the same as for non-reserve stock seed and
economic rate of return on this component would be 45% minimum (based on
sensitivity analysis).
14.       Incremental project seed production would impact about 6.2 million
ha; 3.6 million ha under hybrids would receive new project seed annually,
while 2.6 million ha under wheat and paddy would receive new seed every four
years. Seed would be used nationwide, and users would include all segments
of the farming community. The project would generate about 14,000 man
years of seasonal on-farm employment for harvesting.



INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Costs and Returns of Certified Seed Production
_------ __ H___ T     ------      -- - ------ P- DUYL------ -- 2 _/3------        /2E;L_-- _-_ _ _ COT-T-Off  ------                        ----PRARL MILLET _----             ------      -     ------
Cosecercial   Certified           mCerciel   Certified               CoG ernil   Certified               C_ercial   CErtified               Coserrial   Certified              Ct_rnisl  C1rified
R/h            i                   Rbs                               Ri             Rth.                 Rb            Rihs                 R/b.          R/hRhR/bs Rib
A. PRODUCTION COST3
Land PreParation                      250           250                  200           200                  250           250                  250           250                  250            250                  250           250
Seed -- Cnsdrcial                     125            -                    60            -                    40            -                    40            -                    50             -                    90            -
Foundation                    -             225                  -             150                  -             150                  -              SO                   -            100                   _             150
Nursery and Transplanting              -              -                  125           125                   -
eertiliser                            600           720                  400           5Sf                  350           600                  250           300                  215            300                  300           375
Weeding                                               -                  100            100                 100            150                 100            100                   50           100                   73           150
Peetinide/Nerbicide                    -            125                   30            60                   20            40                   60           250                   -              30                   50           100
Rouing i/Dtasseling                    -              40                   -             40                  -             100                   -             50                   -            100                   -             100
Irrig ation                            70           100                  110           110                   60           100                   60            60                   5O            125                   75           150
Iaspection Fse                         -             50                   -             50                   _             80                   -             50                   -              80                   -             80
Rarve-tiog                            300           300                  300           300                  100           200-/                140           180                   80            120                  100           150
Trfanport sad Handling                 55            70                   64            74                   30            50                   14             18                  20             20                   30            30
Misrellsasoa                            i50           50                  61             91                  50            80                    61            72                   25            45                   30             65
Total Prodontion Costa              1,450         1,930                1,450         1,800                1,000         1,800                  975         1,400                  740          1,270                1,000         1,600
Incrrn.antsl Production Costs          -            480                   -            350                   -            800                   -            425                   -             330                   -            600
B. YIELDS
Grain (100  Kg/ho)                     26            -                    32             -                   18             -                     7             8.5                 10            -                    13             -
Sead (100   Kg/ho)                     -             23                   -             28                   -              16                  -                                   -              6                   -               9.5
Ocreenings/Mala RowJs                  -              0                   _              7                   -               9                  -              -                    -              4.5                 -               4.5
(100 Kg)
C. PRICES
GraIn (Rs/S100 Kg)                    105             -                   75             -                  120             -                  250             -                   135            -                   135
Seed (Rs./100 Kg)                      -            150                   -            100                   -            210                   -             310                   -            400                   -            300
SIcreenings.1 -l  Rows (Rs./100 Kg)   -               55                  -             40                   -              85                  -              -                    -             90                   -             90
D. REVEFUE                               2,730          3,980                2,400         3,080               2,160          4,135                2,100         2,635                1,350         2,755                1,755          3,205
E. FINANCIAL COSTS-                          55           100                   60            90                   40            95                   40            70                   30            110                   35           105
F. INCOME                                 1,225         1,750                  890         1,190                1,120         2,230                  735         1,165                  660         1,495                   720         1,550
G. INCOME IF SEED RREjCTED                   -          1,050                   -            770                   -            907                   -            675                   -             170                   -            230
H. PROBABILITY OF REJECTION-                 -              57                  -              5t                  -             15%                  -             15%                  -              25%                  -             257.
1. EXPECTED INCOME&/                     1,225          1,715                  890         1,170               1,120          2,030                   -          1,090                  660         1,165                    -          1,220
J. INCOME RATI                                              1.40                -              1.30                -              1.61                -               1.48               -               1.76                -              1.70
1/
K. RISK RATIo                                -              1.33                -              1.24                -              1.80                -               1.44               -               1.71                -               1.60
L. SIITABLE PRICE PREHIUM ABOVE
GRAIN PRICE                               -             40%                  -             33%                  -             75%                  -             25%                  -             200%                  -            125%
1/   Os.ad on Punjab/Hiryana conditions;
2/     ..snd on Andhr  Pradesh nonditioss;
3i Sorghbo and tillet hybrid seed production .sssned to have slosilar soat structure; for traditional cultiv tion, costs of fartilizer, pesticides would nst pply.
/   Includes alloance for additional sorting and cob handling;
6/   E.pented inncoe - (Innes fins, seed) n (Probability of ..septanne as send) + (In-osae if rsjectsd) a (Probability of reSction)
5    At 157. per yer for vorking capital (R0% of operating coats) for 4  onthe; asd for seed, (delay In paymnt of the price pr_iun  abo- grain price) for 3 e-ntha;
7/  boner ratio is thb  ratio of expected incone froa  asad to inca  frost Starin cultivation: it nsaottr.s  the necessary r-turn to conpenta.t  for risk;
8/   Risk ratie   is the rati  of funds tied op in the two nprationa; this ratio is nsed as a neas-rs sf increase En fek for the coltivetor.  Expected 3up in incoLes -at eatch this rati  for . eed  .n.duction to be attractive to the faner;
P/ probability of rejection is based on csrtificstioc  agency enparies; it is high for hybrids partly becouse -stre  skill is rceqired in seed production over grin production.
March 1, 1976



ANNEX 12
Table 2
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Financial Analysis
SFCI: Hissar Incremental Investments
(Rs thousand)
Land Development               F'inancial   Economic       Residual Value-
(net of taxes & duty)
90 HP tractor                  800         320               400
Scraper                        100          65                50
Land plane                      50          32                12
Land leveller                    50         33                13
Motor grader                   300         120               N.A.
Operation                      630         630
Sub-total                 1,930       1,200                 F
Conveyor System                 3,600       3,600
Cultivation
Tractor 70 HP                1,800         720
Tractor 50 HP                  350         228
Implements                     375         244
Sub-total                 2,525       1,192
Spares                            775         365
2/
IrrigatianZ/                         -      6,300
Buildings                                750  750
Physical Contingencies             450         225
Total                          10,.030     13,630
1/  Sold in year 4 after conpletion of land development program.
2/  SFCI:  Hissar portion of canal remodelling costs, paid by state
government.
March 22, 1976



ANNEX 12
Table 3
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Financial Analysis
SFCI Hissar Farm - Annual Fixed Costs
Without      With
Project     Project
R'OOO       R'OOO
Salaries                                    1,200       1,200
Wages-general labor  1/                       100          100
Building maintenance - (21)                    33           5o
Irrigation channel maintenance                2/            90 3/
Tractor operation 4/
70 HP                                      -           418 5/
50 HP                                      400          523 6/
30 HP                                       80          -
Implements                                    100          125
Combines                                       90          140
Vehicles                                      150         175
Equipment hire                                 37          _
Land revenue                                    7            7
Administration supplies and services          120          150
Miscellaneous                                  13           22
Total Fixed Costs                           2,330        3,000
Incremental Fixed Cost                                     670
1/ Present value R7,335,000. with project value R 4,335,000
2/  Covered by general farm labor
3/ Materials only.
i/ Without project based on farm accounts.
With project figures cover only fuel, oil and apares.
5/ R 21,800 per year for fuel, oil, labor and spares
_/  R 34,550.
March 1, 1976



NTIONAL SEW  PROJCT
Financial and Eoonomic Anelyala
SFCI Hiasar Farm Yodal - Inreastal Variable Prwhaotion Costa
itbout Project                                                                            th Project                                        Inor_ntal
Fertili.er   Pesticide         Se Id lAor              Irrje aon                       Fartill  r   Peticide          Sd             bor       7rr3gAtion               Variable              In _oreaal Variable
Area   per            per          per           par           per                     Area   per            pe            per          per           per                      Productlon              PtbcVcD C"SO
CrP                           ha    ha   Total   ha   Total   ha   Total   ha   Total   ha   Total   Total           ha    ha   Total   ba   Total   ha   Total   he   Tota    m    Total   Total           Coats                                          20
X  R' 000   5    8' 000          R'OOC   R    9R' 000   RFT0 '         0I 0             R R5'O COO   R-    R'OCC i0                     '      Ro   R'OCO RTOO0           ITloOO
iINI (Eoono ic Analyais)
Sharif (Mon ...n)
Cotton (lSonsoon         550   200    110   200    no    25         14   350    192   100       55     481       800   250    200   300    240    80        64   400    320   100       80      904
Pearl Millet             190   200      38    -       -       5      1   125      24    50      10       73      400   250    100    -        -     50      20   750      60    50      20      200
Pulse                    280   100      28    _       _      60     17   125      35    50      14       94      600   125      75    50      30   100      60  150       90    50      30      285
Other                  1,420    -       -      -             50     25    -       -      -      -        25      640    -       -      -      -     50      32    -       -     -       -        32
8A=j (Dry see.0n)
Lih (Dt                  550   400    220    -        -    225    124   140       77   100      55     476       80o   500    400   125    100   225    180   140    U2   100           do      872
Grain                    120   100      12    -       -      60      7 125        15    25       3       37      500 125        63    -       -    100      50  150       75    25      13      201
Noetard                  120  140       17            -      15      2   100      12    50       6       37      300  175       53   100      30    15       5  150       30    50      50     168
Other                  1,650    -       -      -       -     15      8    -       -     _                 8      84C0    -             -      -     15      13    _       _     _       _        18
Unallocated Variable
Costs                        __ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _      _ _ _ _ _   _  _ _ _ _     _ _  _ _ _     350             __  _ _ _ _     _ _ _ __     _ _  __ _                   _ __ _  _                __ _ _  _
trotag                                 6425           UO            19d           355           143   LSdl                      891          400           424           687           273   2.675          .L2          365       729          1,094
S     (Financial Analvyis)
Iupots for grain                                                                                     1,561
Additional wheat seed                                                                                    91                                                                                     132
input.                                                                                               9113
Total                                                                                                 L.672                                                                                   ..07        1.135         378        757          1,135
Mrch 1, 1976



IRDIA
NIATIOML SM  PRWJCT
financlal end Ehonce Ana)-oeee
SFCI Hissr Farm Nodel - Inoremental Revenues for Fimncial Analysis (Seed Prices)
_       WI T HOUVT    P ROJ 13C T       ---
Area 1/  Tiold 1/ PDduction                     r  1                             Year 2                             Year 3                          Year 4 - 20
Crop                            ha      qtl/ha       qtlc        Price  Rs/qtl  Revenue RsIOOO      Price  Rs/qtl  Revenue Ris000      Price  Rs/qtl  Reveaue Re'OOO      Price  Rs/qtl  Revnum  Rt000
8harif (Monsoon)
Cottonr" -  5> )             550      6.5        3,575              250             894                250             894                250             894               250              894
Pe,erl Millot 5/             190      7          1,330              135             180                135             180                135             180               135              180
Pulses ,/                    280      2            560              200             112                200             112                200             112               200              112
Other 67                   1,420       -           -                -               -                  -               -
Rabi (Dry season)
4/  Seed       )        550      (20       11,000              165           1,815                163           1,793                161           1,771               160            1,760
Screenings)                 (5         2,750               55             151                 55             151                 55             151                55              151
Gram 5/                      120      4            48o              200              96                200              96                20O              96               200               96
Mostard 5/                   120      2.5          300              200              60                200              60                200              60               200               60
Other 6/                   1,650                                      -                                                -                  -
Total R-.oeue Without Project                                                        3,308                              3,286                              3,264                              3,253
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  W I T h   P RO0 J A C T  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Max       MIx.        Maximum                                                    Year 2                             Year 3                            ar 4 -.20
Area,/   Tiela v  Production    Production           2Revenue                     Price    Revenue      Prodaction   Pce    Reenme         Procfction   Price    Rev.r.
Crop                            ha c     t1/ha c     qtls           Qtl       Bs/qtl       OOO         qtl       Re/otl   RstOOO                   Rs/qtl   Re'OOO          qt'l R0/qtl R00OOO
Mharif (Honsoon)
Cotton4/    See  )          8          11     6dow(6,5300       5,317       250    1,329           7,058       250     1,764       8.800(2,500    290       725      a 8,(2,500              1 725
Sepas)                                  (6d, 300'~                                                                           (6,300   250      1, s571  (6,300                    1, 575
Pearl Millet 5/             400       10          4,000          2,220       135       300          3,110       135       420           4,000      135       540 6,000                135       540
Pulses 5/                   600         4         2,400          1,173       200       235          1,786       200       357           2,400      200       480          2,400       200       480
Other 6/                    640        -                    -
Rabi (Dry season)                                                                   8 4                                                                                                     8/
Wh6t/   Seed                            2 800  (1 900   U'      13,733       165 -   2,266         16,467       160 /  2,635           19,200      155-   2,976          19,200       150-    2,880
Wheat- - Screenings)               30( 6    2,000 ( 4,800      3 433        55       l89          4,167        55       229           4,800       55       264          4,800        55       264
Grame c/                    500        6          3,000          1,320       200       264          2,160       200       432           3,000      200       600          3,000       200       600
Mustard c/                  300         4          1,200           600       200       120            900       200       180           1,200      200       240          1,200       200        240
Other 6/84
Total Revenue With Project                                                              4,703                              6,017                              7,400                              7,304
Incremental Rsve                                                       -         -      1,395                              2,731                              4,136                               4,051
/ Based on averages 1970/71 to 1974/75.
g/ Wheat price at seed rates, remainder at grain. The quality of the non-ibeat crops is indeterminate, ani to give
a realistic incremental revenen commercial prices are used for those crops. The prices are weighted to allnw for
-creerdnig *.ses etc.
3/ Mission judgenent.
Full irrigation.
5/ Protective irrigation.
M/ Hain crops: fall, ard green mnura.
Nission judgement of wheat seed price trend without project.
M/ ission judgement of wheat seed price trend with proect.
March 1, 1976



INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
SFCI: Hissar Farm: -- Rate of Return
(Rs. Thousand)
----------------------------------YEAR-------------------------------------------------
1        2         3        4         5        6         7         8        9         10-12
1/
A. Incremental Investment-otatMd17Prcs
A. Incremental Investment              ----------------------------- Constant Mid-1976 Prices ----------------------------------
Land Development & Equipment               4,210    2,900    2,900    (475)        -        -                 2,450
W. Capital2/                                 125       125       125     -         -        -         -         _        -          (375)
Total Investment                           4,335    3,025    3,025    (475)        _        _                  2,450     -          (375)
B. Incremental Revenue (Annex 12, Table 5)          1,395    2,730    4,135    4,050    4,050    4,050    4,050    4,050    4,050           4,050
C. Incremental Fixed Costs (A=nex 12, Table 3)        225      450       670      670       670       670      670       670      670         670
D. Incremental Variable Costs (Annex 12, Tab.4)    380         760    1,135    1.135    1.         1135    1,135    1.135    1,135          1.135
2/
E. Operating SurPlus  (Constant Prices5               790    1,520    2,330    2,245    2,245    2,245    2,245    2.245    2,245           2,245
Financial Rate of Return pr,
2/
F. Operating Surplus (Current Prices)                850    1,730    2,860    2.750    3,065    3,280    3,510    3,755    4,300            4,900
4/
G. Debt Service:
Interest                                      480       780    1,100    1,100        920      730       510      270
Amortization                                             -1600    1,780    1.970    2,190    2.430
5/
Total Debt Service                            480       780    1,100    2,700    2,700    2,700    2,700    2,700          -          -
Net Inflow:                                   370    1,050    1,760         50                580       8      1,055    4,300
1/ Some land development equipment is sold in year 4; replacement for cultivation equipment in year 8; working capital 33% of incremental
operating cost, released at end of analysis.
2/ Assuming 7% p.a. price escalation.
3/ Based on operating surplus and total investment.
4/ Total loan, from Annex 12, Table 2, including physical and price contingency, and loan equal to 70% of investment is Rs. 4.4 M, and
2.9 M in years 1 to 2 and 3 respectively.
5/ Based on normal commercial terms (11/ interest, 70% loan and 5 years repayment, 3 years grace) debt service is not satisfactory, since it
depends to a large extent on general price escalation while payment for interest and principal remain constant.  Debt : equity ratio of
50 : 50 may be necessary.  Participating banks would carefully evaluate detailed cash flows to be prepared by each farm, before                              F'
etermining terms of loansc 
March 22, 1976



PAETIOIAL SHID PIDJSCT
Financial and Baoncsic Analyses
SFCI Hiaear Farm  odel - Incrental Rever,es for Zcononic AnZlYsia (Grain Priem)
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   W IT H OU11T    P R O J 1S C T   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_ 
Are]/   Yield  PrhtonIe r1ar                                                    Ye ar 2                              Ier 3                            !ear 4 - 8                           Tear 9 - 20
Area-   Yield      Production           8/
Croo                              ha     IlA/ha         qtls         Price  Rs/qtl   Reere Rs 1000       Price  Re/qtl   Revenue Re! OOO      Price  Rs/Qtl  Revenue Rs'OO        Price  Rs/qtl   Reverue Rse000       Price  Rs/qt   Reveme Re'00
4h!rir (monsoon)
Cotton 3/                      550      6.5         3,575               18C -/          644                 190              644                 180              644                 180              644                 180              644
Pearl Millet -                 190       7          1,330               135              180                135              180                 135              180                 135              180                 135              180
Pulsee s,/                     2eO       2            560               200             112                 200              112                 200              112                 200              112                 200              112
Other                        1,420       -            -
Rabi (Dry season)
Wheat 1/                       550     25          13,750               162 7'        2,228                 161            2,214                 158            2,172                 161            2,214                 164            2,255
OreaxW                         120      4             480               200              96                 200               96                 200               96                 200               96                 200               96
Mooterd a /                    120       2.5          300               200              60                 200               60                 200               60                 200               60                 200               60
0iutaerd                       12       2-            30                200-                                                                     -                -                   --                                   --
Other5/          .   ..
Total Reve.oe Without Project                                                            3,320                                3,306                                3,264                                3,306                                3,347
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  WI  IT H    P R O J I C T  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_
nax.    nMX.       Maximum                     Year 1                              YIn,, 7a Yo                                                                 *_r 1,-_ 8 evenue     Prodvctioa______
Area    Yield     Production      Prodaction   Price    Reue           troldwton    ce        Reeuf Production   Prie    Rev                    Pro&cton   Pdoe        I u Reyt e                           Ituuee
Crop                              ha    gtl/ha         qtls            qtl       Re/qtl    Re'000                                               qtl Re/Dtl  R   3000  Rt '00j.. t  OOO  qtl     Rq00 tOlOD                          4/qt    RJ'
[harif (Monsoon)
Cottons3/                      80       11          8,ooo          5,317       1           957          7,058       180      1,270           8,800       180       1,584          8,800       180       1,584           8,8bo      180       1,584
Pearl Millet 4/                400      10          4,000          2,200       135         300           3, 110     135        420           4,000       135         540          4, 000      135         540           4,OCO     135          540
Pulses 4/!                     600      4,          2,4,00         1,173       200         235          1,786       200         357          2,1300 400   200        480          2,400       200         480           2,400     200          480
Other 7                        640      -             -                   -
Rabi (JJry season)
Wheat ei                       800      30         24,000         17,166       162 -    2,781          2o,634       161      3,322          24,000       158       3,792         24,0o00      161       3,864          24,ooo     164        3,936
Grem, W                        500      6           3,000          1,320       200         26,4          2,1eO      200        432           3,000       200         600          3,000       200         600           3,000     200          600
Riotard )j/                    300       4          1206C                       0           200  1  1,00  600       20          180          1,200       200          240         1,200       200         240           1,200     200          240
lOatherd                       300       4          1-0              60        20         1-               90       200                                                             -         -           -               -        -           -
Otherl/                        840
Total Revenue Vrth Project                                                                  4,657                                5,981                                7,236                                7,30d                                7,380
Incrent-l Revenue                                                                           1,337                                2,675                                 3,972                               4,0C2                                4,033
a/ ased on averages 1970/71 to 1974/75.
Misasion judgem,ent.
Fu1l irrigation.
4 Protectire irrigation,
5/ Hain crops; fslinu and green _anure.
6/  Cotton price Years  1 - 20g  Shadow prie  180 Pe/qtl - Se   conoio Analsi  of Sirsa Pam, Integrated Cotton Project Apprealel, Report No.
7     h/ lsat price Years 1 - 20: Free mariet price  for, frcn Price forecasts for major primary camwdtiss, ard forecat transportation costs.  (See back-op set)
/  Crop prices except cotton and wheatt ; ar ket prices (also see Findneial Anelyni  Incr_nntal Revnue Annex 12  Tablo 5   )
March 1, 1976



ANNEX 12
INDA                                                            rabl. 8
NATIONAL SWD PROJECT-
SFCI: XMIMUC  ASLIS
-----      ----------------------------------------Y1 A-----------------__-    _______-_-___-_-___-____-_-__________ -_
1        2         3        4         5        6         7         8        9-12         13       14-19         20
A. Incrr_ntal Invstment
Land Dev.lopmnt and Equipnt                  4,920    4,350    4,350       (210)     _                1,070       -          -         1,070
Working Capital 2/                              125      125      125       -            -       -     -                                                       (375)
Total Investment                             5,045    4,475    4,475       (210)      -                1,070      -          -          1,070      -           (375)
2/
B. Incremental Revenue                           1,337    2,675    3,970    4,000    4,000    4,000    4,000    4,000         4,035        4,035    4,035        4,035
C. Incremental Fixed Costs                         225      450       670      670       670      670       670      670        670          670      670          670
D. Incremental Variable Costs                      380      760    1.135    1.135    1.135    1.135    1.135    1. 1    11J135             1 135    1.135        1,135
Net Benefit Inflow                     (4 313)  (3,010)  (2,310)   2,405    2,195    2,195    1,125    2,195         2,230        1,160    2,230         2,605
Economic REate of Return . 17%
1/ Some land development equipl  nt is sold in year 4; replacement for cultivation equipment in year 7 and 13. Working capital - 33% of incremental operating
costs, releaed at and of analysis.
2/ From Table 7. Annex 12.
3/ From Table 3, Annex 12
4/ From Table 4, Annex 12.
March 22, 1976



ANNEX 12
INDIA               Table 9
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
1/
APSSC: Headquarter's Overheads
(Rs.000)
- -------------YEAR---_________
1        2        3         4         5ff
(1976)    (1977)   (1978)   (.199)   (i
2/
Staff Salaries                850        980    1,130    1,200    1,200
3/
Vehicles Operation and
Maintenance                150        200      250       250      250
Office Rental and
Utilities                  150        150      150       150      150
Office Expenses                70         80       90       100       100
Travelling                     30         35       40        50        50
Staff Bonuses @ 10%            85        100      115       120       120
Miscellaneous @  57%           65         75       90        95        95
TOTAL SSC OVERHEAD COSTS   1,400       1,620    1,865    1,965    1,965
1/ In constant mid-1976 prices;
2/ Excluding plant management and staff; see staffing plan table 1, Annex 9.
3/ 10,000 miles/year @ Rs.1.20/mile for all except motorbikes at Rs. 0.35/mile;
4/ 40 days annual for all marketing, quality control and operational staff @ Rs.15/day,
plus 400 days total for managerial staff at Rs. 25/day.
March 1, 1976



INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Financial Analysis
APSSC: Incos Analysis
(Ra ,000)
______------------------------- Year 1/ -------------s--------------~~----------  ------------------------------~~~-~~~~    -~~--
1          2           3            4           5         6            2           8          9              10             11-13
(half year)
------------------------_-_--------------- constant aid 1976 prices ----------------------------------------------
A.  Revenue                                  4,200      23,700    26,200        27,800      29,270    30,780 )
4,530     20,140    20,850        21,550      21,680    21,810 )   c o a a t a   t
-        12,800    15,380        16,010      15,950    16,070
1 380      7.820    10,910        12,030      12 660    12.850
Unadjusted - Revenue               10,110      64,460    73,340       77,390      79,560    81,510        81,510     81,510    81,510          81,510             8, 710
B.  Revenue Adustments_3/
Dual Price Operationg 4                  100         575        640          680        720        800)       o n   t a n t
Seed Grwre' bens  _                      -           470        530          550        560        570 5
e r100   1 045       = 10        1250        1.280     1,370        1.370       1,370      1,370          1=370             1 370
Net Revenue                        10,010      63,415    72,170       76,160      78,280    80,140        80,140      80,140    80,140         80,140             80,140
C. Operating Costs
3/
1. Procureuoent
Paddy                              2,600      15,000    16,330       17,070      17,640    18,200
b.  Maize                              3,330      15,050    15,520       15,980      15,955    15,960 )   c o n a t a n t
c.  Millet                              -         10,400    12,400       12,800      12,790    12,800
d.  Sorghunm                           1535        6360      8.770        9 570       9.900      9.900 9OO       _
Sub-Total (1)                7,465      46,810    53,020        55,420      56,285    56,860       56,860      56,860    56,860          56,860            56,860
2.  Processing Plants -
Direct,  Paddy                       410       2,380     2,700        2,950       3,190      3,440
Hybride                    380       2,400      2,770        3,010      3,170      3,300
b. Labor . Paddy                         40         225        255          280        300        325
Hybrids                      40        265        305          530         350       370
c. Certification Materials: Paddy        45         250       285          310         335        365
Hybrids    50         305        350          380        400        425)   c on t  nt
d. Plant Supervision & Office           335         670       670          770         865        865
e Maintenance:
Equipment & Machinery (5%)         65         130       130          595       1,060      1,060
Plant & Building (2k%)             30          60        60          180         310        310
Sub-Total                    1,395       6,685      7,525        8,805       9,980    10,460
3. SSC Headquarters-7             8         500       1,400      1,620        1,865      1,965      1,965
4.  Interest on Working Capital -             65        425        490          540-        570       605 )                 ___                       -
Tutal Operating Costs        9,425      55,320    62,655        66,620      68,790    69,890       69,890      69,890    69,890          69,890            69,890
9/
D. Operating Surplus -                          585      8,095      9,515        9,540       9,490    10,250       10,250      10,250    10,250          10,250             10,250
-----------cu--------------------------------------current prices-------------------------------
605      8,660    10,850        11,640      12,370    14,250       15,250      16,310    17,450          18,680             19,990
E. Finsncial/Other Custs
1. Depreciatiun
4 10% for   chinry & equipent          200         400        400       1,650       2,910      2,910        2,910       2,910      2,910          2,910             2,910
@ 5% for plant & buildings
2. Interest on long-term debt @ 111         100         645      1,560        2,150      2,515      2,110        1,660       1,275      1,170            610                -
F. Gross Profit    105                                   7,615      8,890        7,84D0      6,945      9,230      10,680      12,125    13,370          15,160             17,080
G. trporate Taxes                               150      3,810      4,445        3,920       3,470     4,615        5,340       6,060      6,690          7,580              8,540
H. Net Income                                   155      3,805      4,445        3,920       3,sh75    4,615        5,340       6,065      6,680          7,580              8,540
I. Operating Surplus after Taxes               450       4,855      6,405        7,7ZO       8,895     9,635        9,910      10,245    10,770          1l,l1O             11,450
----------------------------------I---------------- constant prices --------------------------------------------------___
435      4,540      5,590        6,330       6,845     6,930        6,690       6,460      6,370          6,140              5,950
Financial Rate of Return after Revenue Adlustments and Inca Taxe   - 12           (Before taes - 537.)
1/ Year 1 covers khri;  seed production for 1976.  For this analysis, a year is defined to include * rabi seed season and the following khbrif  seed  essom (i.e.
Oct. to Oct.).  Small inaccuracis in matching the timing of revenues and costs on this table, with other tables where a year is a calendar year, are ignored.
2/ Revenue is based on ex SSC prices (see Chart I),assuming a single price formula.  These en SSC prices proposed under NSP are achieved gradually over 4 years.
3/ Revenue adjuetments are subject to SSC Board decisions in light of SSC financial reserve position.
4/  Only for crops subject to interstate movement restriction, intrastate em SSCQ *ed prices can be lowered, subject to such prices having the sane pre-ism above grain
prices as applicable to interstate sales.  Here intrastate prices for paddy se*d is assumed 10% below interstate price.
5/ Seed growers c-n be paid a bonus, a part of final payment, in light of actuil Belling performance.  here a bonus of 1% of seed procurement price is asoumed   This
is equivalent to a 10% dividend on share purchase.
6/  See Table 6, Annex 3
7/ See Table 1, Annex 9
B/ based on average year round working capital needs of Rs 5.5 m (see Chart I ). On  month-to-month basis working capital needs v-ry fron cere to Re 18.2 m
Interest at 15% for 70% of the working capital needs fin-nced by loan, rest frin reserves.
9/ All items below this line are in current prices.  Operating surplus converted from constant nid '76 price to current prices assaning 7% p.s. general price escalation.
10/ T-xes @ 50% are noninal and nay be lower after allowing for special ecemptions like developnent rebate or faster depreciation.
11/  Operating surplus Iess taces, converted back to constant aid '76 prices.
12/ ROR calculated on investments, excluding price contingencies, from Table 1, Annes 7, and the constant price operating surplus after t-xes (1).
March 22, 1976



A5= 12
11TTOL Bu Pmm       CT                                                                  Table 11
*D^USCA UUYSIS
APSSC: Pro1 cted Cash Plow
(Ia. 000)
-----------__--_-------------------------------YEKR------------------------------------------------------------------~
1(br)      2           3           4          5           6           7          8           9           10           11-13
-_--------------------------------------In  Crrent PriosZ-L-----------------_------_--_--_-------------------_--
A. SOURCE OP FUNDS
1. Share Cemitel                                                                                        __--Share Structure--------------------
1. Share Capital                                                              B    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~qit  Pref rfe  To I   t% of imitt)
-  Seed Grower,                            390      1,725       1,265         770 1                  35%r                    3 -  35%   50           -              -
NSC                                      2,070          -       1,170         3251                   15%         15%         10%        20%          _              _
State Goverrent                            390       1.725      1.265         770 t                  20%         15i         352         301
Sub-Total                   2,850       3,450       3,700      1,865 1                   70%        30%        1007.       100%         -              -
2. Loas
From bank. for fixed assets              1,825      8,060       8,635      4,50
350per.ting surplus after teas                 450       4.855      6.405       7.720       8.895      9.635       9.910      10.245      10.770     1141n0         11,450
Total Sources ot Fund.      5,125      16,365     18,740      13,935       8,895      9,b35       9,910      10,245      10,770     11,110         11,450
B. USL OF FUNDS
1. Investmente
New Processing Plants                    1,825      11,015     11,970       6,215
SSC HQ Invesments                          780        495         365          -           -          -           -           -           -          -              -
Purchees  of NSC Plants                                            -                             -          -                       -            -
Sub-Total                   4,675      11,510     12,335       6,215          _           _           _          _           _           _              _
2. Debt Service
Intert                                     100         645      1,560       2,155       2,515      2,105       t,b60       1,275       1.165        615
Amortistion                                                                    -        3.675      4, 08       4.525       4 O        9,020        5,570
6 ub-Tot.l                    100         645       1,560      2,155       6,190       6,185      6,185       6,185       6,185       6.185             -
61
3. Dividends
Preference Shares                           -          190        330         390-        390         390 knon.t.nt-----_--    __--- __- ___- _____________________
Equity Shares 9J                            --                                            395        830         _
Sob-totel                      -          190         330        390         785       1,220      1,220       1,220       1,220       1.220          1,220
_2/                                              .,                  1
4. Plant Exoansion Reserve                      -        1,425       1,725      1,850         930          -           -           -
5., Iant Rol.ecnt Res  -serv                                -          -                                1,750      1,750       1,/sO       1.,SO       1.750          1.750
6. Lon Red  tion Rxeerve                       325         820         950      1,090          -           -           -           -          -           -              -
7. Researd FundsIO/                              2         200        225         250         100        110         125         120         150        175            500
8. GlUEirgEflY9bl,T                                      a3 1                45                         5 1  3675   8 90                  1 46 s      L7110         5015
Tot,l to Reserves             350       4,020      4,515       5,175       1,920       2,225      2.555       2,740       3,365       3.705         10.268
Cum.letive sauove             350       4.370       8.885     14.060      15,9N0      18 205      20700      23,500      20.865      30.570         61b365
Total  Use  of Funds        5,125      lb,365     18,740      13,935       8,895       9,635      9,910      10,245      10,770      11.110         11.450
I/ Converted from constant mid-76 price, dsing 7% general pride escalation, extept for project investments for which specific contingencies for civil work, foreign
end local equipent are given in Table 1. Aenx 2.
It To maintain the desired share stroctore, nd to provide working funds for SsC, year I and 2 a.bocriptionn should cooe together. NSC subscription in year I is
entirely in the form of traneferred "sets.
3f 70% of investments secured by mortgage.
/ expansion by addition of about 10,000 ton tapacity is likely for 1982.
5/ Upto 3-4 year of grace on interest (11%). Debt service ratio *hoot 1,5 based on (current) funds frm operations. On a ore coneervetive, constant funds from
operations ratio is 1.1 and thus seven year repayment is recomended rather tan six shown hare,
6/ 11% on preferenre shares; 10% on equity shares after loan redmeption reserve is built up.
7  To provide for all eqoty requiremant (30% of cost) for the expansion in 1981-82, plant expansion reserve tund shoold build op to 50% of paid op  qoity.
_/ Plant replacemnt reserve fund is to provide for total equity requirement (30% of cost) for plant replaceent. in year 11-13  zn annu-   allocation (enual to WO7
of depreciation tharge in the previous year if straight line; 30% if accelerated   wou,ld be nectssary.
9/ Loan redemption res*rve fund to be built up during the grte. period to equel 50% of following year'o dott service. No qouity share dividend to be declared till
-               loan redemption built up.
10/ At least 5% of total reserve, woold be placed in a reserve fund to be used to support research efforts by SAU/ICAR through suitable proble specific grant.
llt Etcess of projected inflow over outflow shown here;  this is not applied for finnting investments due to uncertainties in its availability.
Mtrch 27, 1976



INDIA
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS: NSC
NSC: Certified Seeds
At 100% of Projected Throughput
---------------------------YEAR---___________
1          2           3          4           5          6            7-10
1. Revenue
Service Charges @ 5%         15.10       16.53      18.36       20.40      22.67       22.67        22.67
Recovery of expenses of
Reserve Stock from GOI        1.45        2.90       4.35        5.80       7.25        7.25         7.25
Total                16.55      19.43       22.71      26.20       29.92       29.92       29.92
2. Operating Cost
2/
Establishment                 7.72        7.72       7.72        7.72       7.72        7.72         7.72
2/
Administrative                1.93        1.93       1.93        1.93       1.93        1.93         1.93
3/
Publicity                     1.50        1.65       1.84        2.04       2.27        2.27         2.27
Expenses on reserve stock    1.80         3.60       5.40        7.20       9.00        9.00         9.00
Interest on short-term
loans 15%                     0.90         -          -           -          -           -            -
Miscellaneous                 1.31        1.51       1.71        1.91       2.10        2.10         2.10
Total:               15.16      16.41       18.60       20.80      23.02       23.02       23.02
3. Operating surplus             1.39        3.02       4.11        5.40        6.90       6.90         6.90
1/ Interstate trade through NSC of 160,000 tons (87,000 tons wheat; 45,000 tons paddy; 25,000 tons hybrids);
if throughput is only    75%, a service charge of 7% would be required.
2/ Continued staffing at present levels.
3/ 25% of establishment.                                                                       -                    X
4/ %% of sales.                                                                                                   U N
SOURCE: NSC         March 1, 1976



INDIA
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
NSC ENGINEERING DIVISION            (Rs. million)
--____________---------YEAR--------------------------
1          2           3           4          5           6           7-10
Revenue
1/
Service charges                   2.60       5.10        1.65        5.75        0.70       0.70         0.70
Operating Costs
2/
Establishment                     2.15       2.15        2.15        2.15        0.45       0.45         0.45
Administrative                    0.65       0.65        0.65        0.65        0.15       0.15         0 15
Total:                2.80        2.80       2.80        2.80        0.60        0.60         0.60
Surplus/Deficit                   0.20       2.30       (1.15)       2.95        0.10       0.10         0.10
1/ Revenue @ 10% of the capital works to be executed; after year 5 when all works are over, cunsultancy
revenues are assumed @ 5.5% of the capital costs on which service charges were calculated.
2/ Additional temporary staffing during peak work load is relieved by year 5.
0X
SOURCE: NSC
March 22, 1976



ANNEX 12
INDIA                        Table 14
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
NSC - VEGETABLE DIVISION
(Rs. Million)
-----------------YEAR--------------------
1        2         3        4         5-10
Revenue
Sale of certified seeds                   29.30    32.22    35.85    38.77        42.63
Sale of foundation seeds                   3.95      3.81      4.62     5.42       6.17
Sub-Total                         33.25    36.03    40.47    44.19       48.80
Operating Costs
Procurement of certified seeds            14.97    16.62    18.09    19.83        19.83
Procurement of foundation seeds            2.06      2.47      3.08     3.30       3.30
Procurement of breeder seeds               0.11      0.12      0.13     0.15       0.15
Processing & packing expenses               1.70     1.91      2.12     2.31       2.31
Storage expenses                           0.18      0.20      0.23     0.24       0.24
Transportation                             0.50      0.55      0.61     0.71       0.77
Dealers commission 1/                      2.93      3.22      3.58     3.88       4.26
Publicity 2/                               0.38      0.46      0.54     0.62       0.62
Establishment expenses                     3.60      3.60      3.60     3.60       3.60
Administrative expenses        3/          1.35      1.35      1.35     1.35       1.35
Cost of working capital @ 157%              3.00     3.00      3.00     3.00       3.00
Sub-Total                         30.80    33.50    36.35    39.00        39.45
Operating Surplus                           25       2.53      4.12      5.19      9.35
Financial Rate of Return >   507. 7
1/ Dealers commission @ 10% on certified seeds only.
2/ Publicity @ 1% of certified seeds.
3/ Revenues and costs are shown matched, although seed is procured about 6-7 months
prior to sale; seed stocks (about Rs. 20 million) are financed by short term loans
at 15%.
4/ Based on investment of Table 10, Annex 3.
March 22, 1976



INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Table of Economic Costs & Parameters
Wheat        Paddy         Maize        Millet          Sorghum         Cotton
1/
Incremental Cost of seed production (Rs./ton)       78          50            13            42              35             80
Cost of Foundation Seed Production, (Rs./ton)
Processing and Marketing                     1,950        1,600        2,450          3,050           2,900          3,100
Cost of Breeder Seed Production       (Rs./ton) 2,700        2,700        8,000          8,000           8,000          8,000
Cost of Certified Seed Processing, storage 2
and marketing                     (Rs./ton)    565          505          600            600             600            535
4/          4/            5/            5/              5/
Incremental Cost of grain cultivation (Rs/ha)       16          12          410            200             285             -
6/
Seed Multiplication Ratios
Foundation to certified                             20          75            90            85              40             35
Breeder to foundation                               15          65            85           100              35             20
1/ Derive from table 1 , Annex 12, net of value of byproducts; labor valued at financial wage rate.
21 Assuming foundation seed cultivation costs 30% more than certified seed; and processing 50% more due to smaller scale.
3/ Derived from Table b, Annex 3, excludirg capital cost, depreciation, procurement cost, and assuming that 75% retail
commissions are economic costs.
4/ For project seed users over non-project (grain)seed users; only additional cost is for harvesting
5/ For hybrids cultivation package over traditional cultivation.
6/ Allowing   for over producing as a safety margin.                                                                              x
2.?
March 22. 197h



INDIA
NATIONAL SEED POLICY
Project Benefits
----------------------------------YEAR-_--_--__-____-____________-_______-____-_
1        2         3         4         5         6         7         8         9         10
1/_
A. Incremental Seed Production (00 tons)
a. Wheat                                                      -        6.0     12.0      21.0      28.0      34.5  >
b. Paddy                                                      -        2.2      4.5       6.3       8.0       9.6  1
c. Maize                                                      -        0.7      2.25      3.7       5.2       6.5  X
d. Millett                                                    -        0.7      2.5       4.4       6.2       7.9  > Constant------------------------
e. Sorghum                                                    -        1.1      3.6       6.1       8.6      11.0  
f. Cotton                                                     -         -       2.0       8.5      13.7      13.7  j
2/
B. Parameters                    Seed Rate                      ----------Increase in Yield-
(ton/ha)                                    (Tons/ha)
a. Wheat                         0.1                         0.28      0.17      0.10     0.05
b. Paddy                          0.03                       0.25      0.15      0.09     0.045
c. Maize                         0.015                       0.9
d. Millett                       0.004                       0.5
e. Sorghum                       0.01                        0.75
3/
C. Incremental Grain Production (000 tons)
a. Wheat                                                      -         -       16.8     43.8      85.2    129.1    171.2    193.2.   203.0          207.0
b. Paddy                                                      -       13.6     40.9      73.2    106.6    138.0    157.6    167.0    171.8           172.8
c. Maize                                                      -       10.0     32.3      50.7      70.0      96.4      96.4      96.4      96.4       96.4
d. Millett                                                    -       21.9     78.0    137.6    193.5    246.5    246.5    246.5    246.5            246.5
e. Sorghum                                                    -       20.5     67.1    113.1    160.3    205.0    205.0    205.0    205.0            205.0
4/
D. Project Benefits (Rs. million)                                -       27.9    113.3    224.8    370.7    512.4    598.3    642.3    662.5             669.7
1/ From Table 1, Annex 3.
2/ For wheat and paddy yield increases from use of certified seed in year 1, continue through year 4; for hybrids, increase in yields by shifting
from traditional to hybrid cultivation required annual replacement by certified seed.
3/ Only 25% of increase in production is attributed to project.
4/ Net benefit: wheat: 1500 Rs./ton; Paddy: 1160 Rs./ton; for Hybrids and Maize 186 Rs./ton; Millett 237 Rs./ton; Sorghum 242 Rs./Ton; and                              0X
Certified Cotton Seed 2400 Rs./ton.
,,  f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N



INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(Rs. 000)
-----------------------__ _   ___ _ ----_ _---------------    YEAR  --- -- -- --- -- -- - _- ___-_-_-_-_- __-_- __-_-_-_-_- __-_-_--_-_-
1        2       3        4         5        6        7         8        9         10        11-12         13
1/
A. Project Investment                         30,110  145,105 142,045   64,075   14,570       -        -         -        - -                   -          -
Less Duties & Taxes                         7,665   22,360  15,380    2,845       _ 
Net Project Investment                     22,445  122,745 126,665   61,230   14,570       -        -        -         -         -           -          _
2/
Incremental Working Capital
SSC/PSP                                     2,400    3,200   4,000    3,200   32,000      -         -        -         -         -           -       (16,000)
Seed Growers                                1,160    2.320   3,720    4,960    5,970      -         -        _         _         _           _       (14,130)
Seed Users                                    -     26000  26000   27X600   26X000   20,200          _                                       -      (125,800)
Sub-Total                                   3,560   31.520  33,720   35,760   35.170   20,200       -         _        -         - *                (159.930)
Total Investment                           26,005  154,265 160,385   96,990   49,740   20,200       -        -         -         -           -      (159,930)
B. Incremental Operating Costs
41
Foundation Seed Units                       2,760    3,625   4,960    6,035    6,035    6,035 j
Breeder Seed Units 3/    5/                   790      470      550      550      550       550 J
Certified Seed Production      6/             655    1,415   2,555    3,890    4,445    4,445 X Constant------------------------------------------------
Processing, Storage, Marketing              2,200   10,900  20,780   34,800   46,600   52,940 i
Quality Control Units 7/                    1.100    3-23   4,360    6,170    7.100    7,760 |
Total Operating Cost                        7,505   19,645  33,185   51,445   64,730   71,730   71,730   71,730   71,730    71,730         71,730     71,730
C. Net Value of Incremental Productionjabltl66) -      27,900 113,300  224,800  374,700  512.400  598.300  642,300  662500   669,700    669,700    669,700
D. Net Benefits                              (33,510)(146,010)(80,270)  76,365  256,230  420,470  526,570  570,570  590,770   597,970    597,970    757,900
Economic Rate of Return - 657
1/ From Table 5, Annex 7, excluding NSC vegetable seed unit and price contingencies; duties at 40% on imported items; and assuming local taxes at 17P
on all exceptW working capital, reserve stock, training ani technical assistance,
2/ From Chart I, Annex 7 for SSC/PSP, taking 55%, as incremental; for seed growers, from Table 1, Annex 12, and seed production area of Table 16, Annex 12.
For seed users from Table 16: working capital assumed outstanding for 1/3 of year, used here as a surrogate for shorter discounting period to
match production cycle.
3, Table 14, Annex 12, for breeder seed requirement and standard costs of table 15.
4/ Table 14, Annex 12 and standard costs of Table 14.
sJ Table 1L, Annex 12, fo- standard costs, and Table 16 for volume of incremental production.
6/ Table 6, Anrex 3.
7/ Table 3-6, Annex 5; 4 SCAs and 3 STLs.                                                                                                                   z l
March 22, 1976                                                                                                                                                a
ah-






ANNEX 12
Chart I
INDIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
APSSC: WORKING CAPITAL ASSESSMENT
CROP ARRIVALS AND SALES
isPK RS. 18.2 M
14                                -      t     -TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL NEEDS
12   -      -                            -
0
.X I,Cf -   -                        -   -
CL
0
P-- -   JOWAR                       Miz
IPADDY
- GrainAVERAGE WORKING CAPpIAL  F ls.l.5
47~
PaddV~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                ~ol JBank-15704aiz
Arivasvlel  tR:        15          lo015                             pr10k
Saesvaue!/atR:    65          38          40/8
1   ri rc  lsSS  ahcsstl eailsls
1 /  Paddy  Jowar     Bajra       Maize        Word Bnk-570






70'                                           HO8  ,                                          NDO
INDIA
AFGHANISTAN                                                   -N                               NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
PROJECT AREAS, MAJOR CROPS AND PLANT LOCATIONS
JAM414/  andKA5HM/P                               PHASE I                          PHASE,
SingiS r                                          PROJECT STATE BOUNDARIES         STATES' MAJOR SEED PRODUCTION
PROJECT DISTRICT BOUNDARIES      I :AT "I PADDY
WHEAT AND COTTON
PHASE 1  OOTTON AND HYBRID GRAINS
|- HI/IACHAL    .       .                   PROJECT STATE BTUNDARIES         HYBRID GRAINS
5 ADES H                                   PROJECT DISTRICT 3OUNDARIES  F    ADDY AN D   HY3RID G RAINS
.3-'-,                     ~~~~~~~~~JUL                                                                             'ADYAD        RAN
PAKISTAN                 LUEI A             *misha N ,i .
3D                              FERDS <\\e;imia   >~S                               C            H          I           N           A                            Se-
JNAAAi                                                             ( Sl aECu= <\T I B E T)r                                
amp.,
~'. NEPAL            X.- $K,s                  AJ.ImE~~5
PRA DES  ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     CEOk?   BHUTAN
K~~~~~~~ A_ J A 5 Tr HU RANji
GSEHkI'2pSE                 *a         sRHti
RatER             . ~MEGHA/AY
Sa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oo
IHAR      *BNGLADESH                       RHtI
BURMA~~Z
2'-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
70 D - 0~~~~~~~~~~ 0'                                                      PSrirq 3.  t       jp  f b
A tOERSIS -                        S H
Rt LANKA              H           MI  2ES
J    -       --               -     -        hSR HR2WHHO



