LOAN NUMBER /2     3   IN
0
ARDC AGREEMENT
(National Seed Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated               ,0         19T6


﻿ARDC AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                      , 1976, between INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION (hereinafter called ARDC).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five
million dollars ($25,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that ARDC
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ARDC, part off the proceeds of the Loan
will be made available to ARDC on the terms and conditions there-
in set forth; and
WHEREAS ARDC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective mean-
ings therein set forth.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARDC shall take all steps as shall be necessary
on its part to assist each of the States and the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Project and shall do so in accordance with a
banking plan satisfactory to the Bank. ARDC shall act with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admin-
istrative and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. ARDC shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment with the Borrower on terms and conditions (including, inter
alia, those set forth in Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement) satis-
factory to the Bank. ARDC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank may other-
vise agree, ARDC shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiv-
ing the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
goods and works for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with Schedule 4 to the
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. The lending terms and conditions for carrying
out the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 5 to the Loan
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower, ARDC and the Bank.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. ARDC shall periodically review the availability
of working capital for borrowers under the Project and take all
necessary steps to ensure: (i) adequate financing for the seasonal
working capital which NSC, the SSC's and private sector Project par-
ticipants will require to maintain an adequate seed inventory under
the Project; and (ii) similarity of terms and conditions for work-
ing capital borrowings required for the Project.
Section 2.06. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, ARDC
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.07. ARDC: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; and (ii) shall furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan so relent to it and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
Section 2.08. (a) ARDC shall at the request of the Bank:
(i) exchange views with the Bank with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters re-
lating to the purpose of the Loan; and


﻿-5-
(ii) furnish to the Bank all such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request in respect of the
Project.
(b) ARDC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by ARDC of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARDC
Section 3.01. ARDC shall: (i) at all times manage its af-
fairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion
and carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound busi-
ness and financial practices and under the supervision of experi-
enced and competent management assisted by experienced and com-
petent technical staff in adequate number; and (ii) take all
steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business or in the carrying out of the Project.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ARDC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. ARDC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by in-
dependent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its fineancial statements for such year as so audited, and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of ARDC and the audit thereof as the Bank
S         shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and ef-
fect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
If the Loan Agreement shall terminate pursuant to Section 12.04
of the General Conditions, the Bank shall promptly notify ARDC
of this event and, upon the giving of such notice, this Agreement
and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall forthwith
terminate.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of ARDC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of
this Section, the Bank shall promptly notify ARDC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any partial
cancellation or suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement be-
tween the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or mak-
ing such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For ARDC:
Managing Director
Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation
Shri Niketan
F Block
Shiv Sagar Estate
Dr. Annie Besant Road
Worli, Bombay, 18 W.B.
India


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:
AGREFINANS
Bombay 18, India
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of ARDC may be taken or executed by its
Managing Director or such other person or persons as ARDC shall
designate in writing.
Section 6.03. ARDC shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evi-
dence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who vill, on behalf of ARDC, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by ARDC pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
egional Vice President
South Asia
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Byi                            R   ev
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this 1  L     day of        , 197-6.
FOR SECRETARY


