LOAN NUMBER  /     .) IN
MAHARASHTRA PROJECT AGREEMENT
(National Seed Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
THE GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
Dated                      , 1976


﻿MAHARASHTRA PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               1, 1976, between INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and THE GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
(hereinafter called Maharashtra).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rover an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five
million dollars ($25,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Maharashtra
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are here-
inafter set forth; and
WHEREAS Maharashtra, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective mean-
ings therein set forth.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Maharashtra shall carry out or cause to be
carried out in the State of Maharashtra the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrativ%, financial, ag-
ricultural and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. Maharashtra shall cause its SSC to enter into
an agreement with NSC satisfactory to the Bank. The said agreement
shall, inter alia, set out the respective responsibilities of NSC
and the SSC in the carrying out of the Project.
Section 2.03. Maharashtra shall with respect to supplies of
foundation seed, access to quality control services and such
other matters as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank
extend the same treatment to all persons involved in the seed in-
dustry.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Maha-
rashtra shall support the establishment of an interdisciplinary
cooperative program awng relevant departments of its Agricultural
Universities to undertake applied seed technology research.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. Maharashtra shall not make or permit to be made
any change in the articles of association or other instrument gov-
erning its SSC without prior consultation with the Borrower and
the Bank.
Section 2.06. (a) Maharashtra shall cause its SSC to manage
its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future ex-
pansion and carry on its operations in accordance with sound busi-
ness, financial and personnel practices under the supervision of
experienced and competent staff in adequate number.
(b) Maharashtra shall by the Effective Date purchase for
cash equity shares of its SSC in an amount of not less than five
hundred thousand rupees (Rs500,000).
Section 2.07. Maharashtra shall review credit limits and
adjust them as necessary for seed production.
Section 2.08. (a) Maharashtra shall permit its SSC to appoint
such dealers in seed as the SSC may in the interest of efficiency
consider necessary.
(b) Maharashtra shall take action satisfactory to the Bank
to designate and enforce in its cotton seed producing areas the
one-variety cotton comunities and gins permitted in those areas.
Section 2.09. Maharashtra shall, for the purpose of enforcing
the minimum seed quality control standards under the applicable
lav, cause to be inspected annually not less than one-half of all
dealers handling certified or truthfully labelled seeds in Maha-
rashtra.


﻿-5-
Section 2.10. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
goods and works for the Project to be financed out ol the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with Schedule 4 to
the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.11. (a) Maharashtra undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, any imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by Maharashtra to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Maharashtra
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used ex-
clusively for the Project.
Section 2.12. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
Maharashtra shall furnish to the Bank promptly upon their prep-
aration, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents
and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Maharashtra shall: (i) maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and ser-
vices financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to


﻿-6-
it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project, and to examine the
goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the ex-
penditure of the proceeds of the Loan so made available to it and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.13. (a) Maharashtra shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank vith regard to the progress
of the Project in Maharashtra, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Loan.
(b) Maharashtra shall promptly inform the Bank of any con-
dition which interferes, or threatens to interfere, with the pro-
gress of the Project in Maharashtra, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Maharashtra of its
obligations under this Agreement.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Maharashtra shall maintain, and cause its SSC,
SSCA and its Agricultural Universities to maintain, records ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained ap-
propriate accounting practices their respective operations and
financial conditions.
Section 3.02. Maharashtra shall: (i) have its own accounts
and financial statements for the Project (balance sheets, if any,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) and
those of its SSC, SSCA and each of Maharashtra's Agricultural
Universities for each fiscal year audited, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) cause its SSC, SSCA and each such
University to furnish, to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of their respective financial state-
ments for such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish, and cause
its SSC, SSCA and each such University to furnish, to the Bank
such other information concerning the accounts and financial state-
ments of Maharashtra, its SSC, SSCA or each such University (as
the case may be) and the audits thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Maharashtra shall at all times cause the faci-
lities, plant, equipment and machinery required for the Project


﻿-8-
to be operated, maintained, renewed and repaired in accordance
with appropriate engineering and management practices.
*7


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and ef-
fect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
(1)
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of Maharashtra thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of
this Section, the Bank shall promptly notify Maharashtra of this
event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any partial
cancellation or suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement be-
tween the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or mak-
ing such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For Maharashtra:
Secretary
Agriculture Department
Government of Maharashtra
Sachivalaya
Bombay 40020, India
Cable address:
SECAGRI
Bombay, India


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Maharashtra may be taken or executed
by the Secretary, Agriculture Department, or such other person
or persons as Maharashtra shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. Maharashtra shall furnish to the Bank suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who vill, on behalf of Maha-
rashtra, take any action or execute any documents required or per-
mitted to be taken or executed by Maharashtra pursuant to any of
the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
0
By
Regional Vice -President
South Asia
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE GOVERNOR
OF THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
By      A
Authorized by the Governor of
The State of Maharashtra
Under Article 209(1) of the
Constitution of India to sign
this Agreement


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this /0 Zt    day of      , 97(.
FOR SECRETARY


