LOAN NUMBER 42 73 IN
ANDHRA PRADESH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(National Seed Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
THE STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
Dated                      , 1976


﻿ANDHRA PRADESH PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    12<< cau}/         , 1976, between INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and THE STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH (hereinafter
called Andhra Pradesh).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five million
dollars ($25,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Andhra Pradesh agrees to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set
forth; and
WHEREAS Andhra Pradesh, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ABTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Andhra Pradesh shall carry out or cause to be
carried out in the State of Andhra Pradesh the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, fi-
nancial, agricultural and engineering practices, and shall pro-
vide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. Andhra Pradesh shall cause its SSC to enter
into an agreement with NSC satisfactory to the Bank. The said
agreement shall, inter alia, set out the respective responsibili-
ties of NSC and the SSC in the carrying out of the Project.
Section 2.C3. Andhra Pradesh shall with respect to supplies
of foundation seed, access to seed quality control services and
such other matters as may be agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank extend the same treatment to all persons involved in the
seed industry.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Andhra
Pradesh shall support the establishment of an interdisciplinary
cooperative program among relevant departments of Andhra Pradesh
Agricultural University to undertake applied seed technology re-
search.
Section 2.05. Andhra Pradesh shall not make, or permit to be
made, any change in the articles of association or other instrument


﻿governing its SSC without prior consultation with the Borrower and
the Bank.
Section 2.06. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall cause its SSC to manage
its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations in accordance with sound business,
financial and personnel practices under the supervision of experi-
enced and competent staff in adequate number.
(b) Andhra Pradesh shall by the Effective Date purchase for
cash equity shares of its SSC in an amount of not less than five
hundred thousand rupees (Rs500,OOO).
Section 2.07. Andhra Pradesh shall review crop credit limits
and adjust them as necessary for seed production.
Section 2.08. Andhra Pradesh shall permit its SSC to appoint
such dealers in seed as the SSC may in the interest of efficiency
consider necessary.
Section 2.09. Andhra Pradesh shall, for the purpose of enforc-
ing minimum seed quality control standards under the applicable
laws, cause to be inspected annually not less than one-half of all
dealers handling certified or truthfully labelled seeds in Andhra
Pradesh.
Section 2.10. Andhra Pradesh shall transfer to Andhra Pradesh
Agricultural University land which satisfies the Bank as suitable
for seed production.


﻿-5-
Section 2.11. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
goods and services for the Project to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provi-
sions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.12. (a) Andhra Pradesh undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, any imported roods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in
a currency freely usable by Andhra Pradesh to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Andhra Pradesh
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used ex-
clusively for the Project.
Section 2.13. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
Andhra Pradesh shall furnish to the Bank promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents
and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any mate-
rial modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Andhra Pradesh shall: (i) maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to record the progress of the Project (in-
cluding the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)


﻿-6.
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project, and to examine the
goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the ex-
penditure of the proceeds of the Loan so made available to it and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.14. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
the Project in Andhra Pradesh, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purpose of
the Loan.
(b) Andhra Pradesh shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes, or threatens to interfere, with the
progress of the Project in Andhra Pradesh, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Andhra Pradesh of
its obligations under this Agreement.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Andhra Pradesh shall maintain, and cause its SSC,
SSCA and Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University to maintain, records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices their respective operations and fi-
nancial conditions.
Section 3.02. Andhra Pradesh shall: (i) have its own accounts
and financial statements for the Project (balance sheets, if any,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) and those
of SSC, SSCA and Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University, for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) cause its SSC, SSCA and Andhra Pradesh Agricultural
University to furnish, to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of their respective financial statements for
*         such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish and cause its SSC, SSCA
and Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University to furnish, to the Bank
such other information concerning the accounts and financial state-
ments of Andhra Pradesh, its SSC, SSCA or Andhra Pradesh Agricultural
University (as the case may be) and the audits thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-8-
Section 3.03. Andhra Pradesh shall at all times cause the
facilities, plant, equipment and machinery required for the Project
to be operated, maintained, renewed and repaired in accordance
with appropriate engineering and management practices.
0


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of Andhra Pradesh thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agreeement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Bank shall promptly notify Andhra Pradesh of this
event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any partial cancel-
lation or suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For Andhra Pradesh:
Secretary to the Government of
Andhra Pradesh
Agricultural Department
Hyderabad
India
Cable address:
AGRIANDHRA
Hyderabad, India


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Andhra Pradesh may be taken or executed
by the Secretary to the Government of Andhra Pradesh or such other
person or persons as Andhra Pradesh shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. Andhra Pradesh shall furnish to the Bank suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of Andhra
Pradesh, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by Andhra Pradesh pursuant to
any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND IEVELOPMENT
Aegional Vice President
South Asia
THE STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
By                              Reprsenttiv
Authorized Representative
0j


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this JD       day of !     , 1974
FOR SECRETARY


