LOAN NUMBER /2 / IN
PUNJAB PROJECT AGREEMENT
(National Seed Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
THE STATE OF PUNJAB
Dated                       1976


﻿PUNJAB PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated (_L /6 , 1976, between INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and THE STATE OF PUNJAB (hereinafter called
Punjab).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herevith between
India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrover)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rover an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five
million dollars ($25,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Punjab
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are herein-
after set forth; and
WHEREAS Punjab, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrover, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follovs:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall othervise require, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective mean-
ins therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Punjab shall carry out or cause to be carried
out in the State of Punjab the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural
and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be pro-
vided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. Punjab shall cause its SSC to enter into an
agreement with NSC satisfactory to the Bank. The said agreement
shall, inter alia, set out the respective responsibilities of NSC
and the SSC in the carrying out of the Project.
Section 2.03. Punjab shall with respect to supplies of
foundation seed, quality control services and such other matters
as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank extend the
same treatment to all persons involved in the seed industry.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Punjab
shall support the establishment of an interdisciplinary cooperative
program among relevant departments of Punjab Agricultural Univer-
sity to undertake applied seed technology research.
Section 2.05. Punjab shall not make, or permit to be made,
any change in the articles of association or other instrument
governing its SSC without prior consultation with the Borrower
and the Bank.


﻿Section 2.06. (a) Punjab shall cause its SSC to manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations in accordance with sound busi-
ness, financial and personnel practices under the supervision of
experienced and competent staff in adequate number.
(b) Punjab shall by the Effective Date purchase for cash
equity shares of its SSC in an amount of net less than five hun-
dred thousand rupees (Rs500,000).
Section 2.07. Punjab shall review crop credit limits and
adjust them as necessary for seed production.
Section 2.08. (a) Punjab shall permit its SSC to appoint
such dealers in seed as the SSC may in the interest of efficiency
consider necessary.
(b) Punjab shall take action satisfactory to the Bank to
designate and enforce in its cotton seed producing areas the
one-variety cotton comunities and gins permitted in those areas.
Section 2.09. Punjab shall, for the purpose of enforcing
minimum seed quality standards under the applicable laws, cause
to be inspected annually not less than one half of all dealers
handling certified or truthfully labelled seeds in Punjab.
Section 2.10. Punjab shall transfer to Punjab Agricultural
University land which satisfies the Bank as suitable for seed
production.


﻿Section. 2.11. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
goods and works for the Project to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with Schedule
4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.12. (a) Punjab undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, any imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by Punjab to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Punjab shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.13. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
Punjab shall furnish to the Bank promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modi-
fications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Punjab: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Bor-
rower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall


﻿- 6 -
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project, and to examine the
goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the P.1ect,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so made available to
it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.14. (a) Punjab shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project in Punjab, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Punjab shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes, or threatens to interfere, with the progress of
the Project in Punjab, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by Punjab of its obligations under this
Agreement.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Punjab shall maintain, and cause its SSC, SSCA
and Punjab Agricultural University to maintain, records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices their respective operations and financial
conditions.
Section 3.02. Punjab shall: (i) have its own accounts and
financial statements for the Project (balance sheets, if any,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) and
those of its SSC, SSCA and Punjab Agricultural University, for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) cause its SSC, SSCA and Punjab Agricul-
tural University to furnish, to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of their respective financial
statements for such year as so audited, and (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish, and
cause its SSC, SSCA and Punjab Agricultural University to furnish,
to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and fi-
nancial statements of Punjab, its SSC, SSCA or Punjab Agricultural
University (as the case may be) and the audits thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿Section 3.03. Punjab shall at all times cause the facilities,
plant, equipment and machinery required for the Project to be
operated, maintained, renewed and repaired in accordance with
appropriate engineering and management practices.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and ef-
fect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of Punjab thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragrrph (a) (ii) of
this Section, the Bank shall promptly notify Punjab of this
event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any partial
cancellation or suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement be-
tween the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or mak-
ing such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For Punjab:
Secretary -o the Government
PNnj ab Agricultural Department
Chandigarh, India
Cable address:
AGRISEC, Punjab
Chandigarh, India


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.02. Any action reqiired or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Punjab may be taken or executed by
the Secretary to the Government of Punjab (Agriculture Depart-
ment) or such other person or persons as Punjab shall designate
in writing.
Section 5.03. Punjab shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signa-
ture of the person or persons who will, on behalf of Punjab, take
any action or execute any documents required or permitted to be
taken or executed by Punjab pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
BY
Regional Vice President
South Asia
THE STATE OF PUNJAB
By      /       11J .242,,
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  L     -day of        1974.
FOR SECRETARY


