LOAN NUMBER /2    IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
(National Seed Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                           , 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                       , 1976, between INDIA,
acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) By four separate agreements of even date herewith the
first between the Bank and the State of Andhra Pradesh, the second
between the Bank and the State of Haryana, the third between the
Bank and the Governor of the State of Maharashtra, and the fourth
between the Bank and the State of Punjab, the States of Andhra
Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra and Punjab have each agreed to under-
take certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the
Project;
(C) By an agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (hereinafter
called ARDC), ARDC has undertaken certain obligations in respect
of the carrying out of the Project; and
(D) The Bank is willing to make the Loan to the Borrower on
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the agree-
ments referred to in Recitals (B) and (C) above;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Andhra Pradesh" means the State of Andhra Pradesh, a
State of India, or any successor thereof;
(b) "Haryana" means the State of Haryana, a State of India,
or any successor thereof;
(c) "Maharashtra" means the State of Maharashtra, a State
of India, or any successor thereof;
(d) "Punjab" means the State of Punjab, a State of India,
or any successor thereof;
(e) "the States" means Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra
and Punjab;


﻿-3-
(f) "ARDC" means Agricultural Refinance and Development Cor-
poration, a statutory corporation established and organized under
the laws of the Borrower;
(g) "Andhra Pradesh Project Agreement, "Haryana Project
Agreement", "Maharashtra Project Agreement" and "Punjab Project
Agreement" means the respective agreements between the Bank and
each of the States of even date herewith referred to in Recital (B)
of this Agreement, as each such agreement may be amended from time
to time;
(h) "the State Project Agreements" means the Andhra Pradesh
Project Agreement, Haryana Project Agreement, Maharashtra Project
Agreement and Punjab Project Agreement and "the respective State
Project Agreement" means in relation to any one of the States, any
such agreement to which that State is a party;
(i) "ARDC Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and ARDC referred to in Recital (C) of this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time;
(j) "SSC" means in relation to: (i) Andhra Pradesh, the Andhra
Pradesh State Seeds Development Corporation Limited; (ii) Haryana,
the Haryana Seeds Development Corporation Limited; (iii) Maharashtra,
the Maharashtra State Seeds Corporation Limited; and (iv) Punjab,
the Punjab State Seeds Corporation Limited;
(k) "NSC" means the National Seed Corporation Limited, a
statutory corporation established and organized under the laws
of the Borrower;


﻿(1) "ICAR" means Indian Council of Agricultural Research;
(m) "Agricultural Universities" means (A) the Andhra Pradesh
Agricultural University; (B) the Haryana Agricultural University at
Hissar; (C) the Agricultural Universities of Maharashtra located at
Akola, Rahuri and Parbhani; and (D) the Punjab Agricultural Univer-
sity at Ludhiana;
(n) "Participating Bank" means any bank listed in the Second
Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934;
(o) "SFCI" means State Farms Corporation of India;
(p) "truthfully labelled seeds" means any seeds labelled
under Section 7 (c) of the Seeds Act, 1966 (No. 54 of 1966);
(q) "breeder seed" means seed of high genetic purity pro-
duced by a plant breeder;
(r) "foundation seed" means progeny of breeder seed or first
generation foundation seed produced under statutory quality con-
trol standards;
(s) "certified seed" means progeny of foundation seed pro-
duced to statutory quality control standards;
(t) "Subsidi&ry Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ARDC pursuant to Section
3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time;


﻿-5-
(u) "PMMC" means the Project Management and Monitoring Com-
mittee mentioned in Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(v) "CSCB" means the Central Seed Certification Board estab-
lished under the Borrower's Seeds (Amendment) Act, 1972 (No. 55
of 1972);
(w) "CWC" means the Central Warehousing Corporation, a statu-
tory corporation established and organized under the laws of the
Borrower; and
(x) "SSCA" means the Seed Certification Agency of each of
the States.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five mil-
lion dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the goods and works for the Project to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the pro-
visions set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b) Where a contract is awarded for the supply for the Proj-
ect of goods manufactured outside India, the Borrower shall imme-
diately grant permission to import the goods covered by the con-
tract, and no reviews of such permission to import shall be made
by the Borrower or by any of its agencies, and all foreign exchange
required therefor shall be promptly made available.


﻿Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdravn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out or cause to
be carried out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, agricul-
tural and engineering practices and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall take and
cause ull its agencies to take all action (including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources) which shall be
necessary or appropriate on their part to enable the States, with
respect to the State Project Agreements, and ARDC, with respect to
the ARDC Agreement, to perform all of their obligations under the
said Agreements and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c) In order to assist Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra
and Punjab in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall make
available to each of the States in accordance with the Borrower's
standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of
India proceeds of the Loan required by each of the said States to
carry out the Project.


﻿-9-
(a) The Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
with ARDC on terms and conditions (including, inter alia, those set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement) satisfactory to the Bank for
the purpose of lending to ARDC part of the proceeds of the Loan
equivalent to eighteen million one hundred fifty thousand dollars
($18,150,000) or such amounts as the Bank may from time to time
agree. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purpose of the Loan
and, except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall employ, or cause to be em-
ployed, the consultants mentioned in Part I (2) of the Project
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of em-
ployment (including terms of reference) shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall insure, or cause to be
insured, or make, or cause to be made, adequate provision for the
insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.04. The principal lending terms and conditions re-
lating to the Project shall be as set out in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement, said schedule being subject to amendment by agreement
between the Borrower, ARDC and the Bank.
0


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt,
which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the
creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or permitting
the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that
effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other
legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien
created on assets of any of its political or administrative sub-
divisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank
secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to
the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿- 12 -
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrover, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrover or any such sub-
division, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section h.02. The Borrover shall establish a Project Manage-
ment and Monitoring Committee to monitor and coordinate the carry-
ing out of the Project. The membership and powers of the Committee
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.03. The Borrover shall establish a Central Seed
Certification Board with powers and membership satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 4.04. The Borrover shall cause ICAR to: (i) coordinate
breeder seed production under the Project; (ii) determine the par-
ticular investment needs of each institution participating in such
production; and (iii) assign a senior ICAR official to carry out
the above tasks.
Section 4.05. The Bororver shall cause NSC to enter into an
agreement with each SSC satisfactory to the Bank. The said agree-
ment shall, inter alia, set out the respective responsibilities


﻿- 13 -
of NSC and the SSC in the carrying out of the Project. The Bor-
rower shall not permit NSC to assign, amend, abrogate or vaive
any such agreement without prior consultation with the Bank.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall with respect to supplies of
foundation seed, access to seed quality control services, access
to variety trials, seed movement and such other matters as may be
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank extend the same treatment
to all persons involved in the seed industry.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause NSC to conduct with
the assistance of marketing consultants biennial surveys of seed
demand in India.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall permit NSC to appoint such
dealers in seed as NSC may in the interest of efficiency consider
necessary.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall review iith the Bank on a
regular basis the level of the charges for NSC's services and shall
* cause such charges to be adjusted as and when necessary to enable
NSC to cover its operating costs.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall with respect to the Project
accounts of NSC, ICAR, CSCB, SFCI and CWC cause NSC, ICAR, CSCB,
SFCI and CWC to maintain, records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices their
respective operations and financial conditions.


﻿Section 4.11. The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts and
financial statements for the Project of NSC for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) cause NSC to furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
in any case not later than four months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of NSC's financial statements for such
year as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said audi-
tors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) cause NSC to furnish to the Bank
such other information concerning the said accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) any of the States shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the respective State Project Agreement;
(b) ARDC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the ARDC Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that (i) any of the States will be able to per-
form its obligations under the respective State Project Agreement;
or (ii) ARDC will be able to perform its obligations under the
ARDC Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d) ARDC shall have become unable to pay any of its debts as
they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by
ARDC or by others whereby any of the property of ARDC shall or may
be distributed among its creditors; and
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of ARDC, NSC or any of the SSC's or for the suspension of the
operations of ARDC, NSC or any of the SSC's.


﻿- 16 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (d) or (e) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the completion of arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
for the transfer to the SSC's of suitable processing plants of NSC;
(b) the execution and delivery of the State Project Agree-
ments on behalf of each of the States have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary governmental action;
(c) the execution and delivery of the ARDC Agreement on behalf
of ARDC have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary cor-
porate action;
(d) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment on behalf of the Borrower and ARDC, respectively, have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and govern-
mental action;
(e) the completion to the satisfaction of the Bank of lending
arrangements between ARDC and the Participating Banks for loans to
the SSC's; and
(f) the purchase for cash by the States and by NSC of equity
shares of the respective SSC's in an amunt of not less than five
hundred thousand rupees (Rs500,000).


﻿- 18 -
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:
(a) that the State Project Agreements have been duly autho-
rized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
each of the States, and each such Agreement is legally binding upon
Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra or Punjab (as the case may be)
in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the ARDC Agreement has been duly authorized or rati-
fied by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, ARDC, and is
legally binding upon ARDC in accordance with its terms; and
(c) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
Borrover and ARDC, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
ARDC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date a   iLd     1   /     , is hereby
specified fbr the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director or Deputy Secretary to the Government of India
in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi, India
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 20 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INDIA
/J
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-21-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment, machi-                             100% of foreign
nery and vehicles:                           expenditures for
directly imported
(a) SSC                    5,600,000         items and 100% of
the ex-factory
(b) NSC                      325,000         price of items
manufactured
(c) Farm develop-          1,250,000         locally
ment
(d) Agricultural           1,830,000
Universities
(e) Seed quality             315,000
control
(f)  Bulk and tran-          140,000
sit storage
(2) Civil works includ-                           60%
ing engineering:
(a) SSC                    3,310,000
(b) NSC                       75,000


﻿- 22 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(c) Farm develop-         1,110,000
ment
(d) Canal remodel-        1,16o,oo
ling
(e) Agricultural             700,000
Universities
(f) Seed quality             90,000
control
(g) Bulk storage          1,465,000
and transit
sheds
(3) ARDC refinancing           2,360,000         70% of amounts
of private sector                            disbursed by
processing facili-                          ARDC
ties
(4) Technical Assistance         270,000         100%
and Overseas Training
(5) Unallocated                 5,000,000
TOTAL      25,000,000


﻿- 23 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods, or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrover.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrover on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notvithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and
(4) on account of expenditures incurred after November 1, 1975, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000;
(b) expenditures under Categories (1) (c) and (2) (c) relat-
ing to any farm until the Bank or such other institution as the
Bank may determine has been furnished with farm plans satisfactory
to the Bank or that institution (as the case may be) in respect of
that farm;


﻿- 214 -
(c) expenditures under Categories (1) (a) and (2) (a) until
the Bank has approved the design of each cotton plant and of the
5,000 ton and 10,000 ton cereal plant modules to be financed
thereunder;
(d) expenditures made by Andhra Pradesh or Punjab (as the
case may be) until Andhra Pradesh or Punjab has transferred to
its respective Agricultural University land which satisfies the
Bank as suitable for seed production;
(e) expenditures under Category (3) until the technical
aspects of proposals relating to the processing facility to be
financed thereunder have been approved by NSC; and
(f) expenditures under any Category for a State until that
State has established its SSC with articles of association satis-
factory to the Bank and has caused its SSC to sign the agreement
with NSC mentioned in Section 4.05 of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Cate-
gory, to the extent required to,meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the


﻿- 25 -
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the proce-
dures set forth or refk .red to in this Agreement, no expenditures
Q      for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Bank under this Agreement,
by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in
the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expen-
ditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project which is designed to assist the Borrower's National
Seed Program consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Improvement of facilities for breeder and foundation
seed production.
Part B:   (1) Development for foundation and certified seed pro-
duction of farms of the Agricultural Universities,
SFCI and Haryana Land Reclamation and Development
Corporation.
(2) Remodelling of parts of the Bhakra Canal Irrigation
System serving the Haryana farms included in Part
B (1) above.
Part C:   Establishment and equipping of State Seed Corporations
in each of the States.
Part D:   (1) Expansion of seed storage capacity including con-
struction of transit stores and bulk holding depots.
(2) Establishment of a reserve stock scheme for founda-
tion and certified seed of major cereals.


﻿- 27 -
Part E:   Expansion of seed quality control facilities including
the establishment in each of the States of independent
seed certification agencies and the establishment and/
or improvement of seed testing laboratories in Andhra
Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab.
Part F:   Expansion of the National Seed Corporation's vegetable
seed operations.
Part G:   Development of seed technology research programs in the
Agricultural Universities in the States.
Part H:   Expansion of private sector capacity for seed production,
research, marketing, sale and related activities.
Part I:   (1) Overseas training including an advanced pro-
gram in seed technology for qualified candidates
from the Agricultural Universities; processing
engineers from NSC and the SSC's and senior staff
from quality control agencies.
(2) Provision of technical assistance for the Project
consisting of 28 man-months of consultancy services
for seed technology research, processing plant de-
sign, quality control administration, marketing,
marketing training and demand analysis.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
June 15, 1981                                       425,000
December 15, 1981                                   445,000
June 15, 1982                                      465,000
December 15, 1982                                   485,000
June 15, 1983                                      505,000
December 15, 1983                                   525,000
June 15, 1984                                       550,000
December 15, 1984                                   570,000
June 15, 1985                                       595,000
December 15, 1985                                   620,000
June 15, 1986                                       650,000
December 15, 1986                                   675,000
June 15, 1987                                       705,000
December 15, 1987                                   735,000
June 15, 1988                                       765,000
December 15, 1988                                   800,000
June 15, 1989                                       830,000
December 15, 1989                                   865,000
June 15, 1990                                       905,000
December 15, 1990                                   945,000
June 15, 1991                                       985,000
December 15, 1991                                 1,025,000
June 15, 1992                                     1,070,000
December 15, 1992                                 1,115,000
June 15, 1993                                     1,160,000
December 15, 1993                                 1,210,000
June 15, 1994                                     1,260,000
December 15, 1994                                 1,315,000
June 15, 1995                                     1,370,000
December 15, 1995                                 1,430,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 29 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1-1/4%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2-1/2%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4-1/2%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                        6-3/4%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                        7-1/2%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                              8-1/2%


﻿- 30 -
SCEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International CoMpetitive Biddig
Contracts for equipment and machinery estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more shall be awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
(1) Except as provided in Part B (4) below contracts for
equipment and machinery estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than $50,000 (other than motorcycles) and contracts for equipment
and machinery that cannot be grouped into packages of $50,000 or
more, shall be awarded after competitive bidding based on local
advertising in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
(2) Except as provided in Part B (3) below, all civil works
shall be procured under contracts to be awarded after competitive
bidding based on local advertising in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 31 -
(3) Remodelling of Bakhra Canal Irrigation System under Part
B (2) of the Project may, as the Borrower shall determine, be
executed by force account.
(4) Items for the private sector and motorcycles shall be
procured according to customer choice. Minor equipment up to an
aggregate amount of $1,000,000 may, in exceptional cases, be pro-
cured through prudent shopping.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to Andhra Pradesh of inland freight ard other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to te place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in India which under Part A of this Sched-
ule are to be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:


﻿- 32 -
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in India
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in India equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in India.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest eval-
uated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this compari-
son, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award.


﻿- 33 -
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods of-
fered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further com-
parison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties
and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to
pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid;
or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall
be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower and the State con-
cerned shall furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text of
the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising proce-
dures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifi-
cations in the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding docu-
ments shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to
the prospective bidders.


﻿-34 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rover and the State concerned shall, before a final decision on
the ward is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to
vhich it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the reasons for the intended award, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guide-
lines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and the State
concerned and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to all other contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $200,000, the Borrower and the State con-
cerned shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,


﻿- 35 -
if it determines that the eward of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and the State concerned and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 36 -
SCHEDULE 5
Principal Lending Terms and Conditions
1.   Borrower to ARDC
Loans to be repaid in not more than 15 years. Annual interest
rate to be at least 6-1/2% net of any prompt payment discounts.
2.   ARDC to Participating Banks
Repayments to concide with payments by ultimate borrowers.
Annual interest rate to be at least 8%.
3.   Participating Banks to Borrowers
(a) Loans to finance up to 70% of project investments by
NSC, SSC, Central Warehousing Corporation, State Warehousing
Corporations and SFCI and private sector processors and up to
75% of project investments by the Agricultural Universities.
(b) Repayment, including grace period, to be between 5 and
15 years. Annual interest to be at least 11%. Grace period to be
given as necessary.


﻿- 37 -
4. Other Lending Conditions
(a) Banks to SFCI and Haryana Land Reclamation and
Development Corporation
Detailed farm planning proposals, including soil, topo-
graphical and ground water survey, farm mechanization and
land development plans, cash flow statements to be provided;
minimum financial rate of return to be 20% with suitable cash
flow. A State Government guarantee for repayment of principal
and interest would be provided if the banks so desire.
(b) Participating Banks to SSCS and NSC
Detailed investment proposal, supported by technical
review and plant design by NSC, to be submitted, including
cash flows and financial position.
(c) Participating Banks to Central Warehousing and State
Warehousing Corporations and NSC
Investment proposals to be made by the institutions them-
selves. State Warehousing Corporations proposals will require
technical approval of the Central Warehousing Corporation.
Central Warehousing Corporation will have to enter into a
lease back contract with NSC and NSC agreement to the tech-
nical specifications would be required. Central Warehousing
Corporation must also provide overall storage capacity
availability and use statement to justify expansion and
choice of location and size.


﻿-38 -
(d) Participating Banks to private processors
Loan proposals for processing plant must be prepared
with technical review of plant design by NSC. Any research
farm development proposals must provide details required
under 4 (a) above.
5.   All Sub-borrowers
Proposals to the Participating Banks should include detailed
implementation schedules.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this /o      day of     ,1974.
FOR SECRETARY


