Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22237-AL
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-40060; SCL-4006A; SCPD-4006S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50.0 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A
SOCIAL SAFETY NET SUPPORT PROJECT
June 28, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar
77.06 DZD = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 = DZD 77.06
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADS         Agence de Developpement Social (Social Development Agency)
AFS         Allocation Forfaitaire de Solidarite (Contractual Solidarity AUlocation)
AIG         Acivitis d'Interet Getneral (Activities in the public interest)
APC         Assemblie Populaire Communale (Community Council)
BASC        Bureaux d'Action Sociale Communautaire (Community Social Action
Offices)
CDP         Ceilules de Proximite (Community-level social service units)
CPE         Contrats de Pre-Emploi (Pre-employment contracts)
DAS         Direction de l'Action Sociale (Directorate for Social Action)
CD          Community Development
DEJ         Direction de l'Emploi des Jeunes (Directorate for the Employment of
Young People)
SDF         Social Development Fund
1IAG        Indemniti pour Activiti d'Interit General (Indemnity for activities in
the public interest)
MC          Micro-Credit
MTPS        Ministere du Travail et de la Protection Sociale (Ministry of Labor and
Social Protection)
PAIG        Programme d'Activiti d'Intirit General (Program of Public Interest
Activities)
PTT         Poste, Tiligraphe et Teliphone (Postal & Telephone Service)
IRR         Internal Rate of Return
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
TUP-HIMO  Travaux d'Utiliti Publique a Haute Intensiti de Main
d'Oeuvre (Labor-intensive public works program)
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director.   Christan Delvoie
Sector Manager/Director.  Jaques Baudouy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   David Steel



ALGERIA
SOCLAL SAFETY NET SUPPORT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data .................                                   1
2. Performance Ratings.                                             1
3. Assessment of Objectives, Design and Project Quality   .2
4. Achievement of Objectives                   .4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome .13
6. Project Sustainability .14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance .......... ......................................... 15
8. Lessons Learned ...................... 16
9. Partner Comments ....................... 17
Annex 1. Performance Indicators ...................... 18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing ...................... 20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits ....................... 22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs..........                                  ..... 25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives .26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance .27
Annex 7. Supporting Documents .28






Project ID: P004978                                        Pro ect Name: SOCIAL SAFETY I
Team Leader: David J. Steel                                TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 2 7, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: SOCIAL SAFETY I                                 L/CITF Number. CPL-40060;
SCL-4006A;
SCPD-4006S
Country/Department: ALGERIA                                               Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: SE - Labor Markets & Employment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  08/25/94                                 Effective:                     11/01/96
Appraisal:  02/05/96                                   MTR:                       03/16/98
Approval:  04/25/96                                 Closing:  12/31/2000          03/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  GOVT OF ALGERLAMINISTRY OF LABOR
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                          Kemal Dervi,
Country Manager:      Christian Delvoie                          Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:      Jacques Baudouy                             Roslyn Hees
Team Leader at ICR:   David Steel                                Lawrence Wolff
ICR Primary Author:   Eileen Brainne Sullivan; Setareh
Razmara
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES, DESIGN AND QUALITY AT ENTRY
3.1 Original objective:
The project would pilot new ideas and institutional arrangements for delivery of social protection
prograns, which, if successful, could eventually be broadened and generalized. The first and
most important project objective was to create employment and improve infrastructure and
services in disadvantaged areas, and demonstrate the Government's commitment to mitigate the
impact of economic reforms on the poor. The second objective was to enhance the effectiveness
of Algeria's social safety net system. The third objective was to prepare, on a pilot basis, social
development programs aimed at developing social infrastructure and alleviating poverty. The
project was prepared as a complement to the 1996 Structural Adjustment operation, in order to
improve the social safety net system.
3.2 REVISED OBJECTIVE:
The project was not restructured, and the objectives were retained for the duration of the project.
3.3 ORIGINAL COMPONENTS
The project had three components : a) labor-intensive public works ; b) strengthening of the
existing social safety net; and c) pilot implementation of a program to improve social
infrastructure, including feasibility studies on the development of a social fund. The summary
description of components is as follows:
Component 1: Labor-intensive public works programs:
The project was to support labor intensive public works programs (travaux d'utilite
publique, or TUP) in rural roadside maintenance, agriculture, water supply and sanitation,
in underserved urban and rural areas. These programs (geared to the unemployed),
accounted for over 80 percent of project costs, and would differ significantly from the
Program of Indemnities for Public Interest Activities (IAIG) (which targets the poor), in
that there would be increased emphasis on social and economic value added, with closer
supervision of works, and greater private sector participation. The programs were
expected to provide short-term employment, encourage the growth of small enterprises,
maintain basic infrastructure and services, and improve the environment in selected poor
communities. In most cases, local authorities were to identify the specific works, which
would be undertaken on a contract basis by small firms.
Component 2 : Strengthening of the social safety net
Two sub-components were identified to strengthen the Government's social safety net
program. The first was to focus on improving management, targeting and monitoring of
the Govemment's social assistance programs. The second sub-component was to
strengthen the Government's pilot community social service program (Cellules de
proximite), which would identify problems faced by slum dwellers, provide guidance and
basic health services, and link slum dwellers with other public social services.
Sub-component a) Improvement of the existing social safety net. In order to assist
in the Government's program, the project would build institutional capacity by
financing technical assistance, training, studies, equipment, and documentation. The
study financed under the project made recommendations to improve the social safety
net programs primarily by setting-up an MIS and related improved computerization,
- 2 -



communication and training programs. The study, completed in December 1996,
would build on the monitoring indicators that had been agreed upon with the Bank
during appraisal. At the completion of the study, purchases of computer equipment,
software, fax machines, and photocopiers were made including the implementation
of a training program. Vehicles were to be supplied for about 20 provinces, and
funds were to be made available to the agency and the wilayas for the purchase of
documentation (including books and journals).
Sub-component b) Community Social Service Units (Cellules de proximite). The
Govermnent had established mobile social service units in 20 locations. Each unit
was comprised of a health professional, an educator, a social worker/psychologist,
and a representative of the Ministries of Sports and Culture. The units would
identify local community problems, link poor communities with existing social
services, and provide certain key social services, at a relatively low cost. The project
provided support by strengthening the existing 20 social service units, as well as
wilayas and central management. At the local level, assistance consisted of about
US$5,000 per unit. Each unit, with community participation, prepared a proposal for
the necessary assistance. The project financed the purchase of computers and related
software, and vehicles for each of the seven wilaya coordinating units. At the central
level, the project financed the purchase of a vehicle, national seminars, and a
national training program.
Component 3: Testing and preparation of a social fund
The third component supported small-scale testing of a community development program
and the preparation of a social fund.
Sub-comDonent a) Pilot community development project. The project would support
a pilot program for community development. The communities were selected on the
basis of a selection criteria. The pilot program included a study to identify the needs
of three communities, and to determine the Government's capacity to deliver
services. On the basis of this study, a pilot program of social and infrastructure
interventions was identified, including implementation arrangements to be financed
under the project. These interventions could include the construction of community
infrastructure (pre-school, wells, community development centers, school expansion
and repair), community road improvement, sites and services, etc., as well as social
services such as training and institutional support.
Sub-Component b) Preparation of a social fund. The Government established an autonomous
agency, the Agence de Developpement Social (ADS), to manage the social fund. In order to
define the nature of the Agency and the activities of the social fund, the project financed a
number of preparatory studies. In particular, a study was planned to identify, on the basis of a
national sample, community needs for social infrastructure, and the means of undertaking a
demand-based program of local infrastructure development.
3.4 REVISED COMPONENTS:
N/A
-3 -



3.5 QUALITY AT ENTRY:
The project was not subject to quality review (QAG) nor a performance rating for quality at
entry.
4. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS
4.1 Achievement of objectives:
In 1992, the Government launched a radical revamping of the social policy framework. The new
social policy framework was to encompass a coherent set of social service programs targeted to
beneficiary groups. Created in 1996, the Agence de DIveloppement Social (ADS) undertook the
responsibility of rationalizing the social safety net program, which had been introduced in 1994
and managed until 1996 by the Central Administration of the Ministry of Labor and Social
Protection (MTPS), including the programs identified under the Social Safety Net Support
Project.
In 1997, a pilot project was undertaken with World Bank financing - << Support to the Social
Safety Net >> . Aside from improved management of the Social Safety Net as such, three other
programs were to be launched in the context of this project : a) a labor-intensive public works
program (Travaux d'Utilite Publique ai Haute Intensite de Main d'CEuvre, TUP-HIMO) ; b) a
pilot community development (CD) program; and c) a program of community social action
relying upon community social service units (Cellules de Proximite-CDPs) responsible for
outreach services to disadvantaged groups.
In 1998, two new programs, not financed by the World Bank, were added to the ADS's portfolio:
a) the Pre-Employment Contracts program (Contrats de Pre-Emploi-CPE) aimed at fostering the
professional insertion of university graduates seeking employment ; and b) the Micro-Credit
(MC) program, which was open to all unemployed persons who could generate income with the
help of a small loan at preferential interest rates.
The project's objectives were achieved in a satisfactory manner. The first objective was
attained, as the number of jobs created exceeds projections made at the time of appraisal, and
unit costs achieved were lower than the norms established at appraisal ; the second objective,
i.e., improvement of the social safety net, was achieved, since program management was
significantly improved and the rationalization of the AFS and IAIG programs were implemented,
although the information management system could be further strengthened; and the third
objective on pilot community development programs, yielded satisfactory results to the extent
that this project was prepared under difficult circumstances, and in the context of a reluctance on
the part of communities to take responsibility for their own developmental needs.
The project was designed as a pilot operation. The activities undertaken were tested, evaluated,
modified and improved, in order to achieve the objectives of each program and derive lessons for
the eventual preparation of a second phase. The ADS took the initiative of conducting several
studies, analyses and impact evaluations, as well as an operational audit, in order to improve
internal management and implementation of its programs - this was very much appreciated by
the World Bank team.
-4-



4.2 Output by component:
COMPONENT 1: Labor-Intensive Public Works Proeram (TUP-HIMO)
Objective #1 : Creation ofjobs and improvement of infrastructure and services to the most
disadvantaged communMies.
During the 1990s, the absence of economic growth led to a decline in job creation in the formal
and public sectors, which until the 1980s had absorbed about 60 percent of jobseekers. With the
number of jobs growing at a rate significantly lower than that of the working-age population, the
unemployment rate rose from 17 percent to 29 percent between 1985 and 2000. Unemployment
was particularly high (56 percent for those aged 16 to 24 years) among first-job seekers. During
the 1990s, however, unemployment increased among older adults and there was a trend towards
greater unemployment among young people with lower levels of education. This, combined with
a decline in living standards and the acute shortage of housing, were at the root of increased
social unrest. Although Algeria's unemployment is a structural problem requiring medium- to
long-term remedies, short-term remedies such as temporary employment programs constitute an
essential stopgap measure. In this connection, the project was one of the first of its type
developed in Algeria. The project was all the more important considering the country's increased
unemployment, especially in the countryside, and growing internal violence.
The TUP-HIMO program targeted three sectors: road maintenance, agriculture and forestry, and
water and sanitation. Each sub-component had two objectives: development of public works to
improve social infrastructure; and creation of a maximum number of temporary jobs.
Overall, the program's rate of return was positive, since the average internal rate of return (IRR)
for the roads sector reached 12 percent and exceeds the rate of pure time preference of 10 percent
which was set at appraisal. The rate of return covers internal as well as external project costs
which leads to a positive result.
The labor-intensive public works (TUP-HIMO) took up the major share of the loan (87
percent). The main thrust of the TUP-HIMO program was to generate a large number of
temporary jobs in a relatively short timeframe. With this in mind, the project relied upon labor-
intensive methods carried out by local entrepreneurs in rural and urban areas. While creating
temporary jobs geared towards the maintenance of basic infrastructure and services in
disadvantaged communities, the construction works undertaken promoted the development
and/or growth of small enterprises. Since the simple works envisaged under this program
required little training or prior experience, the target population consisted of unskilled
unemployed individuals.
Initially, the program was expected to create 148,563 temporary jobs, or the equivalent of
20,000 full time jobs/year, while respecting a labor rate of 60%. For lack of adequate tools to
measure the actual number of jobs created during project implementation, it was necessary to
resort to a theoretical hypothesis to estimate the quantity of labor actually utilized. Under all
hypotheses, the number of jobs created proves to have exceeded projections. Under the
hypothesis that labor costs account for at least 50 percent of total project costs, it was estimated
that about 24,500 person-years were created under the TUP-HIMO component. In addition,
according to the operational audit report, the average actual cost of a job created under the TUP-
- 5-



HIMO did not exceed US$2,600/year, which is below the amount estimated at project appraisal
(US$2,800/year).
Strong points
* Temporary job creation;
*  Strengthening of program management capacity at the decentralized level of the
Ministry of Labor (Directorate for Employment and Young People (DEJ)) by the
ADS;
* Adherence to World Bank procedures;
* Opening of the public works program to the private sector through the use of
public announcements, transparency in procurement methods, contract
management, etc.;
* Development of small enterprises;
* Works carried out with private contractors at a cost two to three times lower than
works undertaken under force account, and with better quality.
Points to improve
* Monitoring of the small works contractor (tacheronnat) or micro-enterprises needs
to be strengthened in order to have a better overview of the program's viability
over time;
* Preparation of projects and bid packages by local consulting firms rather than by
government agencies (in order to encourage the development of local consulting
firms);
*  Supervision of works by local technicians rather than by firms directly affiliated
to the different ministries (in order to reduce costs and encourage local
employment);
* Improved targeting of regions with high rates of unemployment (on the basis of
an updated and reliable poverty map);
* Enhanced data collection on actual number of jobs created, actual salaries paid
and actual duration of employment;
* Better coordination between TUP-HIMO and IAIG programs in order to avoid
duplication.
* Greater community participation in the identification of projects and the
development of TUP-HIMO technical information forms in order to ensure
project sustainability.
In general, the TUP-HIMO program is well managed by the ADS and the local authorities, who
benefited from management training supplemented by computer equipment and software. The
program consumed about 90 percent of the loan due to the reorganization of loan categories and
the fluctuation in the parity of the local currency (the dinar). The ADS introduced corrective
measures to improve its management, and revised the technical project information forms,
which would allow for better monitoring of micro-enterprise development, including the
collection of data and information which is not currently being tracked. Under the second phase,
the ADS intends to use consulting firms to monitor work sites which will enable the collection
of reliable data on the number of jobs created and salaries actually paid. The management
information system will also be strengthened. The ADS also intends to use a participatory
approach similar to the one developed under the Community Development Programs, in order
to obtain a better appreciation of the demands expressed by communities. In addition, future
-6-



TUP-HIMO projects would be undertaken which would benefit bordering communities and/or
areas (for example, hydraulic or forestry projects).
COMPONENT 2: Stren2thenine the social safetv net
Sub-component a) Improvement of the existing social safety net:
The purpose of the social safety net program, introduced in 1994 was to: (i) provide transfers of
funds (Allocations Forfaitaires de Solidarite - AFS) to the elderly (i.e., those aged 60 and over)
and low-income handicapped persons not covered by the traditional social assistance programs;
and (ii) create temporary job programs for the poor unemployed at a salary below the minimum
wage (Indemnites pour Activites d'Interet General - IAIG). However, since the eligibility
criteria were not always respected, (e.g., half of the minimum wage is paid for a half day's work
instead of for an 8-hour day, and the activities are not always labor-intensive), many IAIG
beneficiaries are young unemployed urban dwellers, usually living at home with their parents,
and who do not necessarily fall in the poverty category. The financing mechanism functions in a
decentralized environment and requires the participation of elected community officials
(Assemblees populaires communales (APC) - and the Directions de l'Action Sociale (DAS) of
each wilaya, which, in every community, falls under the aegis of the Community Social Action
Offices (Bureaux d'Action Sociale Communautaire, BASC).
Strone Points
*  In order to assess the impact of the social safety net program on beneficiaries, a
study was undertaken and a series of measures introduced to improve the efficacy
of the programs (AFS and LIUG);
*  Many unintended beneficiaries were identified through an annual rationalization
process of beneficiary lists;
.  The system has become more transparent with the public dissemination of
beneficiary lists;
*  Timely monthly payments, rather than quarterly, are made to beneficiaries;
*  Financial management of the AFS program was significantly improved (using the
postal service);
*  Managers of the social safety net program received training, albeit towards the
end of the project;
•  Indicators were put in place for program monitoring;
*  Skilled technicians took up their local posts and program monitoring was
improved by this approach.
Points to be improved
* The information management system will need to be expanded to include
additional indicators (distribution of beneficiaries by rural and urban areas, etc.).
The ADS made considerable strides in improving the management of these two programs. The
effort involved in rationalizing beneficiary lists encompassed the following: dissemination
seminars, site visits, activation of community validation commissions, public posting of
beneficiary lists, audits in problematic wilayas, and the recruitment of over 680 skilled
technicians to work on location.
-7 -



Certain problems arose in connection with this program: the use of quotas (by wilaya) instead of
a more pragmatic system (e.g., a reliable poverty map) that would make it possible to target
programs to poor regions; governance issues associated with non-adherence to selection criteria
and manipulation of beneficiary lists by some local authorities; using the program for ends that
are contrary to what was originally envisaged, resulting in a permanisation of positions; and
collaboration between wilayas and APCs, which is still not assured.
One proposal put forth by the ADS is to revise the legislative texts in order to fine-tune
eligibility criteria (e.g., to allow more than one member of a family to participate in IAIG
programs, eliminate activities that are not labor-intensive and reduce overlap with TUP-HIMO
activities), promote a targeting system by eliminating the system of quotas by wilaya, enforce
adherence to the principle of a full day's work for a salary below the minimum wage, and
disseminate and reinforce this new procedure at the level of the wilayas and APCs in order to
ensure better collaboration between the different parties involved.
Sub-component b) Social Services Units (Cellules de proximiti).
The experiment with Social Service Units was launched in the context of increased poverty
subsequent to a decline in purchasing power, the deterioration of basic public services, and a
resurgence of unemployment. Initially, the Units' general mandate was to establish contact with
the marginalized and socially excluded members of the population, and take certain actions a'nd
concrete steps to provide assistance. The priority aim of these initiatives was to improve the
population's access to basic social services in such areas as: health/hygiene, psycho-social
services, education, cultural and athletic activities.
The 28 Units distributed among 7 wilayas, and under the auspices of the wilaya-level Directions
de l 'Action Sociale, benefited from the project loan. In addition to this pilot network there exists
a Unit specialized in assisting victims of terrorism.
A key point to take into consideration is that since 1999, the Ministry of National Solidarity has
been introducing its own Social Service Units into the field to assist those suffering from the
effects of terrorism. Up to now, the ADS's Social Service Units do not benefit from a legal
status and are governed by the same statutes as the Units established by the Ministry of National
Solidarity.
Stron2 points
*  The units were provided with computer equipment, software, office space
(generally through the community), supplies/fiurniture/equipment, and financing
for key personnel;
*  A  key player in re-establishing social links within communities through
outreach/advisory and basic services (referral service), including family contact
and provision of home-based services;
*  The Unit staff attended several seminars to improve their technical skills.
Points to be improved
* Computer equipment and software were purchased only towards the end of the
project;
* Staff qualifications need to be strengthened to meet community needs;
-8-



* There is a risk of overlap between the ADS's Units and those created under the
Ministry for National Solidarity. As a result, there is a need to coordinate the
activities of these units so that they can better complement each other;
*  The Units do not yet have the technical capacities to fulfill the intermediation
functions under the community development program  nor to assist the
communities in selecting sub-projects.
The Social Service Units can play a greater role in community development by helping to rally
and strengthen the social fabric around a common goal or community project. The Units'
capacities needs to be strengthened through funding of key staff salaries and specific training so
that they can provide assistance to the ADS's community development strategy during the second
phase. It is important to note that the Units played an important role in helping identify pilot
projects in connection with the October 2000 Poverty Conference.
It would be particularly opportune to coordinate the activities of the Ministry of National
Solidarity Units with those of the ADS's Units in order to avoid overlap, and to clearly define the
role that each will play in the poverty alleviation strategy.
COMPONENT3: Testing and preparation of a social fund
Objective #3. Community development programs for social infrastructures and poverty
alleviation
The Community Development Program was launched in an environment which did not lend
itself easily to the concept of community development, neither by the beneficiaries nor by the
local authorities in Algeria. Despite these constraints, the ADS devoted a great amount of effort
in implementing this pilot program, and reaped the benefits from lessons learned with regard to
participatory methods which needed to be put in place so that beneficiary populations could
better grasp the concepts of community development and assume increased responsibility for the
development of their communities. The ADS set up procedures and developed close
collaboration among all stakeholders. The experience was extremely enriching.
The Social Development Agency (A4zence de Developpement Social. ADS). The ADS was
created in 1996, and placed under the Head of State. Operational monitoring of all the agency's
activities is handled by the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection. The status and structure of
the ADS were entirely novel for Algeria, and by virtue of its autonomy, it was able to efficiently
manage the programs entrusted to it.
Sub-component a) Community Development Program:
The community development program was launched on a pilot basis as the concept was new to
Algeria. The program was geared towards populations living in poor and marginalized areas,
and provided them with basic equipment and infrastructure to improve living conditions.
The pilot program consisted of 25 small projects in three wilayas (Souk-Ahras, El Bayadh and
Naama). The financial saving which resulted from the devaluation of the dinar made it possible
to implement a complementary program with a total of 91 projects expanded to 40 wilayas. The
characteristic of community development is developed in technical specification forms submitted
-9-



by local authorities, and implemented by a local association, NGO or APC, with 25 percent of
the cost financed by the beneficiaries.
Strong DOints
* Most projects are in line with local priorities;
. - Studies and impact assessments were carried out towards program improvement;
* The ADS conducted analytical studies to improve the participatory methods used,
and introduced a strategy to attain greater community involvement in project
design.
Points to be improved
*  Community involvement in the form of a financial contribution, material or labor
valued at 25 percent of project cost, was too high, particularly for poor
communities. During the pilot phase, the ADS took note that the contribution
rates could not be applied uniformly to all community projects. The rate will be
reduced during the second phase, depending on the activities and financial
capacities of the communities;
* Based on lessons learned during the first phase, the ADS needs to improve its
participatory approach during project identification, and implement the means to
legally transfer the investments to the communities. This requires a progressive
change of mentality and behavior on the part of communities regarding
infrastructure management and community development projects;
. A more in-depth analysis is needed to resolve the issues of unsuccessful
procurement;
• Provide a legal status to community development projects in order that they can
be sustainable.
Out of all the community projects selected, 80 percent are operational. These projects are
concentrated on the following qualitative issues: access to potable water under hygienic
conditions; better health service coverage; improvement of neighborhood hygiene conditions by
means of hook-ups to sanitation networks ; improvement of conditions in schools ; improved
neighborhood lighting and therefore of personal safety ; and outreach to those affected by
physical handicaps or mental illness. In the productive sector, the project re-energized the
traditional professions, especially in rural areas.
The ADS encountered difficulties in encouraging direct participation during project
implementation, especially when this was expected in the form of labor. The prevailing culture
was not conducive to communities taking responsibility for the activities being implemented, and
the concept requires time and patience, as well as intensive outreach efforts and information
dissemination. The ADS, as implementing agency, fulfilled its mandate by launching outreach
and information campaigns, and setting up procedures to improve the efficacy of the program.
It is important to remember that the community development program is still in evolution.
ADS's community development team has taken into account lessons learned, and implemented
measures to correct weaknesses, including a re-examination of the project identification forms;
documenting the synergy between pre-identified projects and other types of interventions;
drafting of a decree which would complete the official transfer of projects to the respective
communities; project selection and focussing on those that are easiest to implement; monitoring
- 10 -



and maintenance of completed projects; and launching of feasibility studies prior to the
commitment and implementation of new projects.
Sub-component b) Social Development Agency (Agence de Developpement Social
(ADS):
The Social Development Agency (ADS) manages programs assigned to it by the Head of State.
The ADS was set up in an environment of social urgency and has amply demonstrated its
managerial capacities. The ADS is complemented by a professional staff, who are skilled and
motivated. In addition, independent advisers and consulting firms are available to the ADS,
providing expertise on an ad-hoc basis.
Strong Points
* Financial inputs come from the State budget and have enabled the agency to
implement the programs under its purview without significant delays.
* Bank investments (granted under Article 24 of the decree) have provided the ADS
with the flexibility to cover the financing of supplemental programs.
*  The ADS has a reliable financial management system in place, which is
noteworthy given the relative young age of the agency, and the inherent
difficulties in Algeria, especially with regard to good communication and lack of
widespread use of computerized systems.
? The financial monitoring of programs is satisfactory.
*  The development of a highly detailed operations manual allowed the ADS to
satisfactorily manage its programs, and has also assisted the Directorates of
Employment and Young People (Directions de l'Emploi et des Jeunes, DEJ) and
Social Action (DAS) in managing their sub-projects.
*  The ADS made an important effort at training the staff in the DEJ and the DAS in
order to inprove their performance and management of the operations, and
instituted a solid foundation for institutional capacity.
* The ADS strengthened its management capacity through study tours to social
funds in Egypt, Peru and Chile.
* The ADS is a dynamic and professional agency.
Points to be improved
. The Management Information System (MIS) is still embryonic, and a clear
definition of program objectives and related performance indicators needs to be
put in place.
* Each program objectives needs to be reviewed and further defined, mainly
through the use of an outcomes-based management framework including the
identification of output and quality indicators.
. The volume of information produced by the ADS for purposes of program
monitoring is primarily financial in nature; qualitative analysis and outputs needs
to be further developed.
The ADS operates in a very complex environment. It requires the cooperation of numerous
partners. The programs managed by the ADS would benefit from better cooperation by the
concerned ministries in order to avoid overlapping objectives, and strengthen collaboration
among the parties involved.
- 11 -



Several studies have been commissioned by the ADS to improve the management of its
programs and internal functions. The ADS participated in study tours to countries that have set
up Social Funds and has been able to draw on this experience. Management implemented most
of the recommendations emerging from the various studies and analyses undertaken under the
project, and the ADS has continuously progressed in a positive direction since the inception of
the project. The ADS has evolved into a high-performing agency, and represents the model
agency in the Algerian context.
4.3 NET PRESENT VALUE/ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN (ERR):
During project preparation, the economic rate of return was not calculated for lack of
information and logistical difficulties associated with quantifying the direct and indirect
economic benefits of the TUP-HIMO public works and community development programs
(which represented 90 percent of the loan), i.e., modernization of public health services and
environmental improvement. During project preparation, the public works (TUP-HIMO) sub-
projects were pre-selected. Selection criteria were based on anticipated objectives and activities
that had demonstrated acceptable rates of economic return in other countries. Overall, it was
expected that the project would help to: (i) create temporary employment that would boost
income levels; (ii) improve the economic and social infrastructure of disadvantaged
communities; and (iii) introduce participatory approaches to the selection and implementation of
projects in the framework of community development. As previously mentioned, public works
activities contributed to the creation of temporary jobs and exceeded appraisal projections. In
the course of project implementation, the ADS conducted an ex-post economic evaluation of
road maintenance activities. On the basis of this evaluation, the ERR was estimated at about 12
percent for road works. In addition, supervision missions estimated that the rate of return for the
public works programs, based on quantifiable benefits, is about 16 percent. This is a
demonstrable effect of the project's economic viability; however, caution must be used in the
interpretation of the figures as these are only rough estimates. An economic analysis carried out
under the companion Rural Employment Project in Algeria (Loan No. 16343-AL), indicates a
rate of return of around 26 percent for agricultural activities. This rate can only be an
approximation of the return on agriculture and forestry activities financed under this project due
to the differences between the activities financed by each project, but it is indicative of the
economic viability. As for water and sanitation activities, rates of return should be around 15
percent, taking into account the social advantages that will result: e.g., improved conditions of
hygiene, time savings and increased water consumption. During the second phase, the ADS
should undertake ex-post economic evaluations of other sub-components of the public works
programs (agriculture and forestry, and maintenance of water supply and sanitation system) as
well as impact assessments for the other components of the program.
4.4 FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN:
The FRR is not relevant to this project since the implementing agency is a non-revenue earning
entity.
4.5 INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT IMPACT:
The ADS is under the aegis of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection, and a detailed
operations manual outlines the management functions and work program of the Agency. The
- 12-



institutional development impact has been entirely satisfactory given the level of work
undertaken by the ADS in the field, and the considerable effort made to ensure better
management and monitoring of programs. Compared to other implementing agencies in Algeria,
the ADS is highly effective, and has a flexible approach in responding to emerging needs from
the field, while at the same time demanding greater quality work from its staff. There exists an
excellent spirit of collaboration between the ADS and its partners, which could not have been
brought to fruition without good management practices on the part of the ADS' administration.
In short, this is a dynamic agency.
5. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMlE:
5.1 Factors outside the control of the Government or its implementing agency:
* Low economic growth, deterioration in social conditions and resultant increase in
poverty;
* Lack of job creation and increased unemployment;
* Internal instability and the effects of terrorism.
5.2 Factors generally subject to Government control:
D Program monitoring;
3 Strengthening of eligibility criteria..
5.3 Factors generally subject to the control of the implementing agency:
* Institutional strengthening by the ADS of the DEJ and DAS, and of the CDPs;
* Stronger linkages in general with line ministries;
• Limited authority in the coordination of programs and duplication by other line
ministries.
5.4 Costs and fmancing:
Components         World Bank loan       Government           Total
(in US$ millions)   contribution (in   (in USS millions)
_______ ________           JUS$ millions)
Projected   Actual   Pro-jected   Actual   Pro-    Actual
____________  ___________    ~~~~jected _ _ _ _ _ _
TUP-HIMO              43.50    44.79      18.60    19.20   62.10    63.99
Community              2.30     2.49       0.90    0.76    3.20      3.25
development
Social Service Units   1.30     0.23       0.50    0.05     1.80     0.28
Institutional          2.90     2.47       0.40    0.49    3.30      2.96
development
Total                 50.00     50.0      20.40   20.50   70.40    70.48
The loan was almost entirely disbursed, although there was a devaluation of the dinar during
project implementation that allowed the ADS to finance additional activities within each
program. The undisbursed balance is estimated at US$700,000 dollars, and will be cancelled
after July 31, 2001 - the date marking the end of the grace period following the project's closing
date of March 31, 2001.
- 13 -



6. SUSTAINABILITY
6.1 Rafionalefor Sustainabiity Rating:
The sustainability of programs is likely to be assured for the following reasons: a) the TUP-
HIMO program was successful, owing to good management that will further be strengthened
under the second phase; b) the management of the social safety net has substantially improved,
including the targeting process through rationalization, and the information management system
will be strengthened in the area of performance indicators ; and c) the pilot phase of the
community development program yielded valuable lessons, for which corrective measures were
introduced under the second phase.
However, the World Bank team raised a concern with the authorities about the sustainability of
the TUP-HIMO programs, as the ADS has been using IAIG program funds for TUP-HIMO type
activities. Funds earmnarked for IAIG should not be transferred to ensure the sustainability of the
TUP-HIMO programs, as the two programs are aimed at different groups (IAIG towards the
poor, and TUP-HIMO towards the unemployed). Given that poverty has substantially increased
during the 1990s, it is imperative that IAIG programs be maintained as part of the Government's
poverty alleviation programs, while at the same time improving targeting and strengthening the
self-targeting mechanisms. Worldwide experience indicates the complementary nature of these
programs because their target groups are different. To ensure the financial sustainability of the
TUP-HIMO, the Government needs to allocate additional budgetary resources to the ADS.
Moreover, the impact of the TUP-HIMO programs in the field could be improved by
implementing the revised needs-assessment procedure that was set up under the community
development program. The procedure will allow the beneficiaries to identify priority activities at
the community level, thereby a more demand-driven approach. This change will encourage
community maintenance of infrastructure created under the TUP-HIMO and will eliminate
possible overlaps between the TUP-HIMO and IAIG activities.
In addition, given the changes being introduced at the level of the Ministry, and discussed below,
the sustainability of the ADS may be being compromised. The mission noted changes at the
level of the ADS administration specifically in decreased management flexibility compared to
what was provided for undeT the established decree.
The 2001 Appropriations Law eliminates the Social Development Fund and reverts budget
allocations back to the indicative budget lines of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection.
This means that the Agency will now operate at the same pace as the official budget process:
* yearly, rather than multi-year, allocations;
* abiding by the same rigid procedures as that of the Treasury account;
* a ban on investing cash reserves that would generate additional income thereby reducing
managerial flexibility and the responsiveness of the ADS;
* a three-month delay in the release of annual budget allocations, with the budgetary cycle
closing in mid-December.
- 14-



The ADS's ability to manage and finance the programs in a satisfactory manner is at risk.
6.2 Transition arrangement to independent operation:
The movement towards an independent operation risks being compromised due to these changes
that are occurring within the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection, and its view on the ADS's
future role. Although the Ministry confirmed that the ADS would maintain its autonomous
status, the Bank noted that the agency's functions are in the process of being modified.
7. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
7.1 Lending:
Project preparation by World Bank staff was satisfactory. The project benefited from a Japanese
grant for the preparatory phases of the project. The grant financed consultant services to carry
out studies and detailed analyses of project components (technical project specification forms for
TUP-HIMO, social safety net, etc.). In addition, the Bank conducted a seminar on experiences
with social funds around the world to the Borrower's tearn. It is also important to note that the
majority of preparation missions took place outside the country due to internal instability and
security concerns.
Given the inability of the team to prepare the project in-country, development objectives were
not as clearly defined during project preparation, and field visits were not carried out which
would have made for a more detailed appraisal of project components.
7.2 Supervision:
Starting in 1996, the World Bank conducted nine supervision missions - on average one every
five months and with an average duration of eight days. The missions were led by the team
leader with the support of specialists in the following fields: economist, project management,
transportation/road engineer, social funds, agriculture, financial management, community
development, micro-credit, and sociologist. In addition, the specialists in transportation/roads,
agriculture and financial management made separate supervision trips, thus providing additional
needed support to the project.
The missions were unable to conduct field visits (with the exception of site visits to Bejaia,
Ghardaia, Oran, Tiaret, and Tissemsilt) in order to carry out an in-depth assessment of project
activities, which led to gaps in monitoring and evaluating qualitative issues. However, it is
important to note that in the course of preparing the operational audit report, consultants from
SECOR/M3E conducted field visits in 2000.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. The Bank missions were strengthened by
technical experts in social funds, and seminars were conducted to disseminate experiences with
social funds to Government authorities in order to help them make in the decision-making
process. Supervision missions took place at regular intervals and were strengthened by additional
experts in different fields. Close contact was established so that the Agency could receive timely
advice and assistance as needed. A new team leader, as well as some new technical experts,
were appointed when the project went into the supervision phase.
- 15 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Although the Project Coordinator appointed to manage the preparation of the project was not of
the right caliber, Government participation in project preparation was satisfactory.  The
Borrower's team was supplemented with technical experts from the ministries involved in the
project.
7.5 Borrower performance in project implementation:
The Government's performance was satisfactory during project implementation, although the
mission noted some changes in the management of the ADS in the course of implementation (the
main aspects of which are highlighted in the << Lessons Learned o section).
7.6 Implementing agency:
Program management was satisfactory throughout project implementation, and the ADS staff
demonstrated a high level of professionalism in the performance of their jobs.
7.7 Overall Borrower Performance:
In general, Borrower performance was satisfactory. The dialogue was constructive over the
period of project preparation and implementation, and the Bank was able to increase its
knowledge on social policy trends and the evolving economic environment in Algeria.
8. LESSONS LEARNED
The experience acquired over the last three-years (implementation period) confirms the validity
of the general project design. The creation and establishment of the ADS, with its innovative
structure, enabled a learning environment, especially from experience from the field. In
addition, the ADS promoted the use of a constructive self-evaluation mechanism with the goal of
self-improvement, and improved program management. The ADS (and through the agency, the
implementation of the project) had a catalytic effect because it demonstrated that a public agency
operating in the social service sector can be innovative, effective and obtain good results. The
project also demonstrated and confirmed the successful use of private contractors as opposed to
force account which is widely used in Algeria. In addition, the ADS launched a process of
decentralized management and encouraged community participation (the communities had been
poorly served up to that time), and ensured effective collaboration with line ministries and
provincial/local administrations. Although the administrative framework of the ADS is not
designed on the typical worldwide model of autonomous social funds (taking into account the 66
social funds throughout the world), the Agency is obtaining good results and its structure is
obviously well suited to the administrative environment of Algeria.
Several studies were carried out, particularly social safety net program beneficiary assessments
(AFS and IAIG). The studies did not yield the expected results as the assessments were
primarily based on quantitative rather than qualitative inputs. The terms of reference will be
enhanced during the second phase so as to collect concrete data on impact. However, the
community needs assessment study was the first of its kind ever undertaken in Algeria and was a
major learning experience for the ADS and the partner institutions involved.
- 16-



The Community Development Program is a new concept in Algeria, and implementation of this
new approach requires application of lessons learned and increased effort; two elements that the
ADS management supports so that the program can have the desired impact.
It is important to underline that, although the ADS is a solid agency and has carried out its
mandate in a-fully satisfactory manner (justifying the investment of the past three years), the
structures responsible for implementing the individual programs are still in need of support. In
particular, the recent changes made at the administrative level have reduced the ADS's
managerial flexibility. The Appropriations Law for 2001 eliminates the Social Development
Fund and re-integrates budget allocations into the budget lines of the Ministry of Labor. This
means that the release of budget allocations occurs with a three-month delay, thus compromising
program management and timely financial execution.
9. PARTNER COMMENTS
(a) Government/mplementingAgency:
The Implementing Agency's report (summary) is attached below, and the full report is in the
project files.
In general, the Implementing Agency concords with the Bank's assessment. The Government
counterpart (Ministry of Labor) did not submit comments as of the date of this report.
Certain aspects with regard to the Borrower's and the Bank's performance are as follows:
With regard to the Borrower's performance, the implementing agency was quickly put in place,
with minimal turnover at the personnel level, and the establishment of strong management, and
effective organizational and work processes led to the success of the project; including good
coordination between the ADS and technical ministries; the Bank loan was almost fully utilized;
additional funds were obtained following the devaluation of the dinar; and additional programs
executed due to the devaluation. The timely development and implementation of the MIS did
not keep pace with that of the programs.
The Bank's performance was evaluated as satisfactory, because of the flexibility in preparing and
supervising the project, and timely response to the Borrower's requests. The main weakness
noted was the turnover of Bank team members.
The agency believes that the progress achieved is based on sound analyses carried out during
phase I, and that the agency will use to build upon in order to remain a strong and competitive
agency.
(b) Co-financiers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
- 17-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
indicatoriMatrix                  Projected in last PSR                ActuallLatest Estimate
Output Indicators:
IndlcatoriMatrix                   Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimnate
Public Work Programs
a) Employment creation - 20,000 person  21,000 person/years were created by  It is estimated that about 23,000 person/year
years over prject life.              02J29/00.                            was cread by 03/31/01.
b) Maintenance of assets:
i) Roads - 10,000 kms.;           i) PAD estimates 11,000 km            (i) Actual 13,000 km
i) Water/sewage systems - 1,200 kms.;  (ii) NA                          Cii) 40 different types of works and unable to
aggregate
iii) Agriculture:- environmental protection
measures - 105,000 ha.; drainage system - (iii) PAD estimates 115,000 ha  (iii) 154,000 ha
600,00 ML; flood prevention works -
4,000m3; wind breaks - 1,000 km.; other
misc. 1,500 ha.
c) Development of small private enterprises. Small contractors (Tacherons bid on  The total number of contracts awarded was
contracts in large numbers 27,500 bids on   3934.
3,790 contracts awarded.
d) Decentralization of decision making.  Wilya level offices of technical ministries   Improvements continue to be made regarding
select and technically supervise projects; institutional building at the local level, through
commune levels offices (DEJ) of Ministry of the application of writen procedures and
Labor authorize payments to contractors;   training of personnel.
payments are made by local offices of
comnmercial bank (BNA). Quality of
coordination and levels of competence vary
widely by wiiaya but overaUl vel is improving.
As of 12/31/99 3,396 (89% of total) contracts
signed worth $56.9 million (94% of the total All works cormpleted under signed contracts.
program amount). Payments of $51.3 million
made to contractors. These contracts cover
37 wilayas.
Strengthening the Social Safety Net  Improved targeting. In 1999 to date the  In 2000, the total number of beneficiaries
average number of beneficiaries per month  (AFS, PAC, IAIG) was 810,972, due to the
under all 3 SA programs (AFS, PAC, IAIG)  vigilence in ensuring the right beneficaries
was 970,000 (1998: 953,000; 1997:    were listed. The monthly payment also
936,000). Average monthly payment per   increased in 2001: AFS increased from 900
beneficiary, excluding social security  DA to 1,000 DA; and MAG has increased
payments was 840 DA ($14).          from 2,500 DA to 3,000 DA. The average
monthly payment per benefeciary has
AFS and IAIG programs are still not well   readied 909 DA ($12).
targeted. Govemment took a major step on  Governance is one of the rajor issues in
October 18, 1999 by announcing the public  implmenbng the programs. ADS has
listing of all welfare beneficaries to bring    substantally improved the targeting of the
more transparency to the program at the  programs but efforts still need to be made in
local lvel.                          enforcing self-targeting mechanisms;
reviewing eligbility criteria; and revising the
gislation in the cDntext of the poverty
reduction strategy.
- 18 -



Prepare Pilot Social Development Programs The ADS management and staff increased   Sustainability of the ADS is at risk because
form 38 in June 1998 to 74 by end 1998 to  changes have been introduced at the
117 by 12131199. Project Management  management level that will reduce the
remains good and financial management    agency's flexibility in managing its operations
excellent. (ADS is cose to LACI ready).    and will impede efficiencies in its activities.
Program management reporting capability is The April mission noted that new procedures
good, but data collecdon and MIS for project will force the agency to rely on annual budget
performance performance monitoring needs allocations rather than multi-year. This will
improvement                         lead in practice to delays in effective
disbursement and as a result would affect
ADS is attracting very capable new people in the programs of the ADS.
management, finance, community
development, filet social. It has opened two
regional offices of six planned. It now has
the capacity (data, people and resources) to
manage large program,s and undertake more
igorous analysis of programs. It now has a
proven track record, it is being asked by the
Govemment to manage an increasing
number of program.s Recent additons are a
preemployment program for university
graduates and a microcredit program. It will
soon need to undertake a strategic planning
process.
End of project
5/15/01
- 19 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuaULatest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million    US$ million
Public Works                                      55.60          62.10           1.12
Social Safety Net                                  3.00           3.80           1.26
Social Fund                                        4.10           3.70          0.91
Coordination Unit                                  0.80           0.80          0.96
Total Baseline Cost                               63.50          70.40
Physical Contingencies                            5.40
Price Contingencies                               1.60
Total Project Costs            70.50         70.40
Total Financing Required            70.50          70.40
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Ex' V 0  penditure Cat0Megory                          2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
Expenditur Category  CB        NCB          Other2    N______ _F___
1. Works                    0.00         64.20        0.00         0.00        64.20
(0.00)      (44.90)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (44.90)
2. Goods                    2.00         0.00         1.50         0.00         3.50
(1.50)      (0.00)       (1.10)        (0.00)      (2.60)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         2.60         0.00         2.60
(0.00)      (0.00)        (2.50)       (0.00)      (2.50)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.10        0.10
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                    2.00         64.20         4.10         0.10        70.40
(1.50)      (44.90)       (3.60)       (0.00)      (50.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuaULatest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method, 
Expenditure Category    ICB           NCB      ether'          N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         66.00        0.13         0.00       66.13
(0.00)      (45.86)      (0.09)       (0.00)      (45.95)
2. Goods                    1.87         0.43         0.63         0.00        2.93
________ __ _    (1.58)  (0.37)    (0.54)       (0.00)      (2.49)
3. Services                 0.22         0.33         0.79         0.00        1.34
(0.22)      (0.33)       (0.79)       (0.00)      (1.34)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
-20-



(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         2.09           66.76           1.55           0.00          70.40
(1.80)        (46.56)         (1.42)         (0.00)        (49.78)
1' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in USS million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component               Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      GovL       CoF.      Bank       Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Public Works              43.50      18.60               44.70      19.18               102.8  103.1
Social Safety Net         2.80       0.30                 2.73       0.55               97.5   183.3
Social Fund               3.00       1.30                 2.40       0.83               80.0   63.8
Coordination Unit         0.70       0.20                                               0.0    0.0
-21 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
1. Links to CAS: The CAS, discussed by the Board on February 27, 1996, proposes a
three-pronged strategy during the transition period in Algeria: (i) acceleration of the reform programns;
(ii) support for social projects targeting poverty reduction, job creation schemes, and low-income
housing; and (iii) assistance to mobilize external financing. The CAS recognizes that in the short-term
quick employment generation and protection of vulnerable groups will be crucial to safeguard the
reform program and reduce the social crisis which has plagued the country for the last decade. In this
context, the SSN I has served the CAS strategy by addressing unemployment through creating quicely
temporary labor intensive employmnent programs, particularly in communities with high unemployment,
to improve social services in poor communities.
2. Macroeconomic Environment: Macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms have been
undertaken since 1987 to reverse the economic decline which began in the mid-1980s. However,
important reversals in economic policy during the first phase of transition to a market economy
(1989-94) resulted in prolonged economic recession, accompanied by increasing inflationary pressure,
high external debt, growing unemployment, and mounting social discontent. During the second phase
of the transition, beginning in 1994, the stabilization and adjustment programs were relaunched and
macroeconomic balances were restored. Despite structural reforms, the development of the private
sector has not picked up and the restructuring of the public enterprises has been slow. In the meantime,
due to a lack of economic growth, per capita GNP declined by almost 50% from US$2,880 in 1987 to
US$1,600 in 2000 and per capita private consumption fell by an average of 2.5% per year over the
same period. As a result poverty incidence has increased from about 8% of the population in 1988 to
about 20% in 2000. The number of unemployed workers has also almost doubled during the last
decade, with the official open unemployment rate reaching almost 30% in 2000, compared to 17% in
1985. This combined with a deterioration in living standards have led to severe discontent and civil
unrest. It is expected that the unemployment will further increase in the near future as public enterprise
reform and privatization result in labor shedding. Although unemployment is a structural problem in
Algeria, requiring medium- and long-term  solutions, short-term  solutions such as temporary
employment programs are necessary adjuncts. To reduce unemployment, the Government's highest
priority is the promotion of broad-based sustainable economic growth. Reforms designed to make the
economy more responsive to market signals can be expected to improve employment and income
opportunities for the broader population in the medium-term. At the same time, to assist the short-term
unemployed, the Government promoted various active labor market policies, including labor intensive
public works programs designed to provide income support to the poor unemployed (IAIG) and
generate short-term jobs for the unskilled unemployed (Tl)P), particularly first time job seekers. In this
context, the project pursued a multi-sectoral program of public works programs, mainly in roadside
maintenance, forestry, social infrastructure (health centers and primary schools), agriculture, and water
supply and sanitation. The Government has already undertaken similar free standing programs in
agriculture. In this approach, using multi-sectoral programs, the Government has coupled employment
generation and asset maintenance with efforts to develop the private sector and encourage bottom-up
decision making for public works programs.
3. Fiscal Impact: In 2000, the Government spent about 9%/o of GDP in social protection programs
(including, employment programs, assistance programs, public works, social insurance and other
transfers). The project imposed a minimal fiscal burden on the government, accounting for less than
0.2% of GDP.
- 22 -



4. Economic Rationale for Public Sector Involvement: Public intervention in the project was
justified by public goods and redistribution arguments. In respect to the public goods argument, the
private sector was not expected to undertake short-term labor intensive public works programs in the
social infrastructure sector. These public works have had long-term benefits to the whole population
beyond the immediate impact of income supports or the medium-term impact of service delivery.
Government support has helped strengthen the capacity of small scale local private contractors which
in turn helped to create employment in the short- and medium-term. Creation of temporary labor
intensive jobs were expected to reduce the social unrest and political instability in the long run.
Regarding the redistribution argument, Government needed to help those who are negatively affected
by lack of employment creation and who cannot benefit from public works programs (IAIG) targeted to
the poor. Since resuming labor intensive growth, particularly led by the private sector, will take time,
Government needed to promote creation of temporary labor intensive employment to reduce low-skilled
unemployment in the whole country. Moreover, because of the deteriorating conditions of the basic
social infrastructure and services in rural and urban areas, Government needed to rehabilitate the
infrastructures in poor rural and urban communities and targeted benefits to poor communities unlikely
to be reached by the private sector.
5. Achievements to Date: ADS has made progress in terms of launching TUP-HIMO and
community development projects, despite a slow start due to the existing circumstances and difficulties
putting proper procedures in place.
6. Public Works: Table 1 shows fund allocations, employment generation per year and cost per job
created under the SSN I. As of April 30, 2001, total cost of TUP-HIMO component was about
US$64 million, and disbursements under the Bank loan total about US$44 million.
7. During the implementation of the project ADS collected information on the number ofjobs created
based on administrative records (person/project basis). This needs to be treated with caution and may
not accurately reflect the temporary employment actually created by the project. According to the
administrative data, which are based on 3,934 completed contracts during the project, for a total
amount of US$63.9 million (DA 4.128 billion), and as of April 30, 2001, the total number of
employment created was estimated at 24,500 person/years over the three years. The number of
employment is estimated on the average total cost per job of about US$2,600/year (somehow below the
value of $2,800/year estimated in the SAR), with the assumption that the average share of labor in
total costs was about 50%. Given that the administrative records are the only infornation available, the
labor cost (wage bill and social charges) during the first phase can be assumed to have been around
50%/o of total project cost (including TVA and Social Charges) for all components of the TUP-HIMO
(road maintenance, agriculture, hydraulics and sewerage, and urban infiastructure). To ensure that the
information on employment creation is based on the realization in the field, an adequate monitoring
system will need to be implemented in the future.
8.  According to these estimates, the cost of jobs created by TUP-HIMO compares favorably with
international standards. Based on international experience, cost per job created (with emphasis on
maintenance activities) ranges from a high of approximately 590% of GDP per capita for average
social fund cost in Latin America to a low of 46% in Indonesia. At about 160% of GDP per capita,
the cost per job created in SSNI is well within this range. The cost of a job in Algeria includes the high
investment cost in equipment, materials, transport and security costs of the workers to the work sites.
If we had assumed that the share of labor in total cost is about 40%, the number of jobs created would
have been about 19,000 person/years at an average cost of US$3,250/job. This is still within the range
of SAR estimates. Although the wage rates are fixed at the minimum wage, the private contractors
-23-



have to pay the payroll taxation which amounts to about 34.5% of the gross wage bill as well as the
14% Value Added Tax (VAT). If these additional taxes were not imposed by the legislation, the public
works could have generated additional employment
Table 1: SSN I Targets Achieved as of April 30, 2001
Total    Total    # jobs   # jobs   Cost    Cost    Labor   Labor   Labor/   Labor/
Funds   Funds   (prsn/   (prsn/   per       per     Costs    Costs   Tot       Tot
(Plan    (Act.   yr)      yr)     Jobs    Jobs    TTC        TTC      Cost.    Cost.
USS     US$      Plan     Esti-    year     year    (year)   (year)   Pind     Esti-
mln)    m1n)"             mated   (US$)   (USS)   US$        USS               mated
Plnd    Esti-    Plnd     Esti-
mated            mated
Total Public    55.6    63.9    19,800   24,500   2,800    2,600    1,600    1,300    60%     50%
Works
Road maint.   24.2    29.2    5,200    11,200   4,600    2,600    2,500    1,300    55%       50%
Agricul.       18.7    17.0    10,000   6,500    1,800    2,600    1,300    1,300    73%      50%
Water Supply   12.7    17.7    4,600    6,800    3,000    2,600    1,800    1,300    63%       50%/
&   Sewer.__________
* At the beginning of the program the exchange rate was IUS $=53.70 DA; and at the end of the project the
exchange rate has reached IUS$ = 64.51 DA.
The actual financial resources include the restructuring, the contingencies and the additional fimds obtained as a
result of the devaluation of the DA.
Source: SSNI, SAR, March 1996; and ADS & Bank staff estimates.
9. Pilot Community Development Projects: During project implementation, about 91 sub-projects
were completed at a total cost of US$3.4 million. On a temporary basis, the size of community
development projects increased from US$100,000 to US$200,000. Monitoring of sub-projects
indicates adequate targeting to poor communities, prompt physical implementation and payments to
contractors within 30 days. However the main issues raised during the pilot phase are as follows: (i)
severe difficulty of implementing the program  in the prevailing security conditions because by
definition the program is mainly implemented in less secure areas of Algeria; (ii) difficulty in
responding to real needs of a community as sub-projects are often proposed by local authorities
(commune) or by the Govemment's technical services; (iii) lack of promotion and outreach campaigns;
(iv) lack of community participation in selection or in implementation (other than financial or labor
contribution); (v) lack of sustainability of the projects and impact analysis of the programs on the
communities; and (vi) lack of familiarity of the ADS and partners (including community leaders) in
participatory techniques and approach. Therefore there is a need to train ADS and partners in
participatory techniques; to manage the project selection process better at the local level, including
routine use of community needs assessments; and establish clear performance indicators. During the
first phase ADS completed a Participatory Needs Assessment Study and the Bank undertook a quick
impact assessment study of the pilot programs. Based on lessons learned during the pilot phase, ADS
should continue expanding the community development component.
-24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
9/1994                      6   1 DC, I RE, I 00, I CO, I PW,
I SO
6/1995                      9   2 CD, 4 EC, I CO, 1 OA, I TL
Appraisal/Negotiation
2/1996*                    13   5 EC, I TL, I RH, I AO,
2 ENG, 1 LA
5/1996                      1   1 TR
Supervision
7/1997                      3   I TL, I HREC, I IMP                S             S
3/1998                      2   1 TL, I IMP                        U             S
11/1998                      6   1 TL, 2 EC, 1 CO DV, 1 ENG,        U             S
1 SOC
5/1999                       5   1 TL, 1 CO DV, I FIN, I MIC        U             S
I AG
10/1999                     6   1 TL, I EC, I ENG, I SF,           S             S
I AG, I FIN
3/2000                       3   1 TL, 2 SOC                        S             S
ICR
4/2001                      3    1 EC,100,1OA
TR: Transport Specialist; EC: Economist, FIN: Financial Specialist; 00: Operations Officer: ENG: Engineer; CO
DV: Community Development;
IMP: Implementation Specialist
Note: * Appraisal/Neg. was conducted as a reverse mission in Washington, DC.
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                                        309216
Appraisal/Negotiation                                              33800
Supervision                                                       327289
ICR                                                                40000
Total                                                             710305
-25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
IMacro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
ISector Policies                         OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
Z Physical                               O H  * SUOM  O N  O NA
O Financial                              O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development              * H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
I Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Gender                           OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)           OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
L Other (Please specify)                 O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
-26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
Z Lending                                          OHS*S Ou OHU
Z Supervision                                      OHS OS   Ou  OHU
N Overall                                           OHS OS  O U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
Z Preparation                                      OHS OS  O U  O HU
• Government implementation performance            O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
• Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS   O u  O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS 0 u O HU
- 27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Audit Operationnel
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
Prograrmme des Travaux d'Utilite Publiques (August 1995)
Projet de Coopration avec la Banque Mondiale - Document de Projet
Social Safety Net Program in Algeria - Mid-term Evaluation (Octobre 1995)
Bilan du Filet Social (Avril 1995)
Rapport sur les Programmes de Politique Sociale geree par l'ADS ( Situation a fin 1999 et perspectives
2000-2003)
Rapport d'Activite 4eme Trimestre 1999
Rapport d'Activite pour le 3eme Trimestre 2000
Programme Travaux d'Utilite Publique a Haute Intensite de Main-d'Oeuvre (Tup-Himo)
Programme de Cr6ation d'Emplois Temporaires (Fevrier 2000)
Programme de Traitement des Poches de Pauvrete
Bilan Filet Social (Fevrier 1998)
Documents received during the ICR mission:
1. Rapport final d'evaluation de la phase pilote du projet d'appui au filet social finanace par l'accord de
pret BIRD 4006-AL (version avril 2001)
2. Note de Synthese programmes sociaux geres par 1'ADS - janvier 2001
3. Annexes I Bilan decaissement su pret BIRD 4006-AL - version preliminaire avril 2001
4. Bilan financier programme TUP-HIMO - situation arret6e au 31/12/2000
5. Annexes II Programme TUP-HIMO - version preliminaire avril 2001
6. Annexes m Programme developpement communautaire et CDP
7. Annexes IV Programme institutionnel filet social (AFS/L4IG) - version preliminaire avril 2001
8. Documents types pour le suivi des projets (TUP-HIMO) - janvier 2001
9. Programme d'action pour l'exercice 2001 - fWvrier 2001
10. Projet de budget exercice 2001 - fevrier 2001
11 Budget annuel de l'agence de developpement social au titre de 1'exercice 2001 Annexes - fevrier 2001
12. Carte de la pauvrete en Algerie - Synthese
-28-



