Page  1
December 20, 1996
Lic. José Alejandro Arévalo Alburez
Minister of Finance
8a Avenida y 21 Calle
Zona 1,
Guatemala, Guatemala
Re:  Japanese Grant for Greater Guatemala City Low-
        Income Barrios Improvement Project
Trust Fund  No. 029591
Dear Mr. Minister:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan to make a 
grant in an amount not exceeding $693,250 (six hundred ninety three thousand two hundred and fifty 
Dollars ) (the Grant) to Republic of Guatemala (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for 
the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement. The 
Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said 
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon receipt by the Bank 
of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Director
Central America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By /s/ José Alejandro Arévalo Alburez
Authorized Representative
Date: January 10, 1997
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The technical assistance activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
Page  2
(a)
Carrying out of an analysis of the social and economic situation of potential eligible 
low-income barrios in the city of Guatemala, including, inter alia, an analysis of the level of 
poverty and community organization of such barrios.
(b)
Identification of community groups and non-profit organizations in the city of Guatemala  
and international organizations in order to determine, inter alia, their possible participation in the 
Greater Guatemala City Low- Income Barrio Improvement Project (the Project).
(c)
Carrying out of an analysis of the condition of the physical infrastructure of low-income 
barrios in the city of Guatemala, including, inter alia, an analysis of the environmental impact of 
existing infrastructure systems and  the level of urban services in such barrios.
(d)
Carrying out of an assessment of the potential use of alternative technologies in the 
provision of basic infrastructure services, which include, inter alia, water and sanitation, 
electricity, housing and solid waste.
(e)
Carrying out of an analysis of the effectiveness of cost recovery mechanisms used in the 
Municipal Development Project -Loan No. 2972-GU, including, inter alia, an analysis of their 
suitability for the Project.
(f)
Carrying out of an assessment of the alternatives for increasing construction of housing 
and improving the existing housing, in low-income barrios in the city of Guatemala.
(g)
Carrying out of a legal analysis of the land tenure situation in low-income barrios in the 
city of Guatemala in order to legally regularize the titling of such land.
(h)
Carrying out of an analysis of the municipal regulations related to land use, health and 
environment to determine their applicability in achieving the objectives of the Project. 
(i)
Design of criteria for the selection of eligible low-income barrios in the city of 
Guatemala.
(j)
Carrying out of an analysis of the economic and financial capacity of individuals in 
low-income barrios in the city of Guatemala to determine their willingness and capacity to pay 
for the provision of basic infrastructure services, as such services have been described in (d) 
above and to design the appropriate  cost  recovery mechanism.
(k)
Carrying out of a study of the appropriate institutional, financial and legal arrangements 
related to the execution of the Project.
(l)
Carrying out of study tours abroad of other barrio upgrading projects.
(m)
Design of the components of the Project.
(n)
Design of a training program for the communities living in eligible low-income barrios in 
the city of Guatemala to assist the Recipient in the carrying out of the Project.     
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient shall cooperate 
with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and 
effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank 
against any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in 
connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful 
misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by June 30,1998.  After that date, the Bank 
Page  3
may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in the 
carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be done 
according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or 
permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether 
or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, after 
consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for 
the Activities if any of the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has 
failed to perform any of its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the 
Recipient , or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the 
Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development or any development credit agreement with the International 
Development Association shall have been suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that 
is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
