Page  1
 Conformed Copy
LOAN NUMBER 4006 AL
Loan Agreement
(Social Safety Net Support Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 3, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4006 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 3, 1996, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
Page  2
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United 
Nations."
      (c)  In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
     (a)  "Banque d'Algerie" means the Borrower's central bank, operating pursuant to 
the Borrower's Law No. 90-10, dated April 14, 1990, as the same may be amended from 
time to time;
     (b)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
     (c)  "PAIG" means Programme d'Activits d'Interet General, the Borrower's public 
interest program which benefits members of the population who are able-bodied and with 
no income, established pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 94-08 of the Borrower, dated 
May 26, 1994, as the same may be amended from time to time;
     (d)  "AFS" means Allocation Fortaitaire de Solidarit, the Borrower's cash 
transfer program which benefits members of the population with no income who are 
either over sixty (60) years of age or unable to work, established pursuant to 
Legislative Decree No. 94-08 of the Borrower, dated May 26, 1994, as the same may be 
amended from time to time;
     (e)  "BAD" means Banque Algrienne de Dveloppement, the Borrower's Algerian 
Development Bank, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Ordinance No. 
71-47, dated June 30, 1971, as the same may be amended from time to time;
     (f)  "MTPSFP" means Ministre du Travail, de la Protection Sociale et de la 
Formation Professionnelle, the Ministry of Labor, Social Protection and Vocational 
Training of the Borrower;
     (g)  "MEAT" means Ministre de l'Equipement et de l'Amnagement du Territoire, the 
Ministry of Equipment and Land Use Planning of the Borrower;
     (h)  "MAP" means Ministre de l'Agriculture et de la Pche, the Ministry of 
Agriculture and Fisheries of the Borrower;
     (i)  "MICLE" means Ministre de l'Interieur, des Collectivits Locales et de 
l'Environnement, the Ministry of Interior, Local Authorities and Environment of the 
Borrower;
     (j)  "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit referred to under the provisions 
of paragraph A.2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and 
     (k)  "Wilaya" means an administrative division of the Borrower organized pursuant 
to the Borrower's Wilaya Law (Loi Relative la Wilaya), No. 90-09, dated April 7, 1990, 
as the same may be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of fifty million dollars 
($50,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of 
such withdrawal.
Page  3
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Banque d'Algrie on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, 
the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the 
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest 
Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall notify 
the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i) "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
         (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
       (iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice to 
the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal 
to the 
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest 
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 
Page  4
1 and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. BAD is designated as representative of the Borrower for purposes of 
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MTPSFP with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
     (b)     Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
      (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
Page  5
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary on its part, not 
later than March 31, 1997, to establish an agency, as agreed between the Borrower and 
the Bank, and define said agency's internal rules of operation, such agency, inter 
alia, to undertake the responsibility for implementation of the program referred to 
under Part C.2 of the Project.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1996, furnish to 
the Bank (a) the results of a study, carried out pursuant to terms of reference 
jointly prepared by the Borrower and the Bank, to formulate, inter alia, measures to 
enhance the capabilities of the Borrower to monitor the implementation of PAIG and AFS 
through the setting up of a management information system; and (b) a proposed plan, 
acceptable to the Bank, to purchase equipment for, and provide
specialized training to the personnel of, MTPSFP to ensure proper operation of the 
information system referred to under paragraph (a) of this Section.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
     Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that MTPSFP, MEAT, MAP and MICLE have entered into a 
framework agreement, acceptable to the Bank, relating to the implementation of Parts 
A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project.
     Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Immeuble Maurtania
          Algiers
          Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
          Cable address:           Telex:
               FINPLAN             67073
               Algiers
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
Page  6
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
               DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
               By /s/ Amine Khene
Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Rene Costa
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Works                                      70%
     (a)  under Parts A.1,    43,500,000
          A.2 and A.3 of the
          Project
     (b)  under Part C.1 of    1,500,000
          the Project
(2)  Goods                                      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
     (a)  under Part B.1 of    1,300,000        100% of local
          the Project                           expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
     (b)  under Parts B.2        600,000        cost) and 85%
          and C.3 of the                        of local ex-
          Project                               penditures for
                                                other items pro-
     (c)  under Part C.1 of      700,000        cured locally
          the Project
(3)  Consultants' services,                     100%
     training and studies
Page  7
     (a)  under Part B.1         500,000
          of the Project
     (b)  under Part C.1         300,000
          of the Project
     (c)  under Parts A.1,       500,000
          B.2 and C.2 of the
          Project
     (d)  under  Part C.3 of     600,000
          the Project
(4)  Unallocated                 500,000
          TOTAL               50,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of five million dollars ($5,000,000), may be made in respect of Categories 
(1) (a) and 3 (d) on account of payments made before that date but after February 15, 
1996; and (b) under Categories (1) (b), 2 (c) and 3 (b), unless the Borrower has 
furnished to the Bank (i) an assessment of the needs of local communities; and (ii) a 
formulation of the program referred to under Part C.1 of the Project, including modes 
of implementation thereof, all acceptable to the Bank. 
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures (a) for services under contracts costing 
the equivalent of $100,000 or less; and (b) for goods and works under contracts 
costing the equivalent of $300,000 or less, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in (a) creating 
employment and improving infrastructure and services in disadvantaged areas of the 
country; (b) enhancing the effectiveness of the Borrower's social safety net system; 
and (c) preparing, on a pilot basis, social development programs aimed at developing 
infrastructure and alleviating poverty.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:     Labor Intensive Public Works Programs
1.   Carrying out a program of roadside maintenance on about thirteen thousand 
(13,000) kilometers of the municipal and Wilayas' road networks. 
2.   Carrying out programs aimed at (a) containing caterpillar infestations of pine 
forests in about twelve (12) Wilayas; (b) mitigating the effects of desertification 
through the regeneration and development of the alfa plant in two (2) Wilayas; (c) 
maintaining watershed infrastructure and drainage works in one (1) Wilaya; (d) 
combating erosion and floods through afforestation and the planting of fruit trees in 
one (1) Wilaya; and (e) maintaining and scraping irrigation drains in one (1) Wilaya.
3.   Carrying out programs aimed at (a) identifying and repairing leaks in the water 
supply system in about fifteen (15) Wilayas, collecting water from underground wells, 
dredging and repairing water reservoirs and sand-blasting and repairing steel 
reservoirs in one (1) Wilaya; (b) dredging and repairing sewage systems in about 
Page  8
fifteen (15) Wilayas; and (c) constructing water supply and sewer systems in about 
twelve (12) sites in two (2) Wilayas.
Part B:     Social Safety Net System
1.   Carrying out a program to enhance the quality of the management, targeting and 
monitoring of PAIG and AFS, such program to consist of the provision of equipment and 
personnel training, and the carrying out of a study and a survey on the impact of PAIG 
and AFS on the beneficiaries thereof.
2.   Strengthening twenty (20) existing community outreach offices through the 
provision of equipment and the carrying out of a training program for the staff 
thereof and an assessment of the needs thereof.
Part C:     Community Development Programs
1.   Preparation and carrying out, on a pilot basis, of a program to improve the 
physical infrastructure and social conditions of economically vulnerable groups of the 
population.
2.   Preparation of a large-scale program to improve social infrastructure and living 
conditions of the groups of population referred to under Part C.1 of the Project.
3.   Support to PCU in managing, supervising and monitoring the implementation of the 
Project through the provision of equipment and expert services.
* * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                  Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
                    (expressed in dollars)*
 
On each April 1 and October 1
     beginning October 1, 2001
     through October 1, 2012                
2,085,000
 
And on April 1, 2013                        
2,045,000
 
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Page  9
Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below.
     Time of Prepayment                       Premium
                                    The interest rate (expressed
                                    as a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:
Not more than three years                       0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                       0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                         0.65
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                  0.88
     more than fifteen years
     before maturity
More than fifteen years before                  1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     Works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.   International Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $300,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Page  10
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to: (a) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more; (b) the first two contracts for works under each of Parts A.1, A.2 
and A.3 of the Project; and (c) each contract for works under Part A.2 of the Project 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, other than the two contracts 
referred to under paragraph 2 (b) of this Part D, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
A.   Project Implementation, Management and Coordination
1.   The Borrower shall vest MTPSFP with the overall responsibility for the 
implementation of the Project. MTPSFP shall implement: (a) Part A.1 of the Project 
through MEAT; (b) Part A.2 of the Project through MAP; (c) Part A.3 of the Project 
through MICLE; and (d) Parts B and C of the
Project through PCU.
2.   In order to ensure proper management and coordination of the Project, the 
Borrower shall (a) maintain PCU, within MTPSFP, with professional staffing in adequate 
number, whose qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the Bank; and (b) 
cause MTPSFP, MEAT, MAP and MICLE to maintain the arrangements provided for under the 
framework agreement referred to under Section 5.01 of this Agreement.
3.   PCU shall be responsible, inter alia, for coordinating and monitoring the 
implementation of the Project.
4.   The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 1996, put in place, and 
Page  11
thereafter maintain, arrangements acceptable to the Bank to assist PCU in supervising 
the implementation of Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project.
B.   Mid-Term Review
     The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an 
ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, not later than December 31, 1997, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
     (c)  review with the Bank, by January 31, 1998, or such later date as the 
Borrower and the Bank shall agree, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Borrower's and the Bank's 
views on the matter.
C.   Progress Reports
     Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, 
and to those of Section B of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, not later than January 
31 and July 31 of each year until completion of the Project, commencing January 31, 
1997, prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, describing the progress achieved in the 
implementation of the Project.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (a), (1) (b), (2) (a), 
(2) (b), (2) (c), (3) (a), (3) (b), (3) (c) and (3) (d) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$2,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $10,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  12
     (b)  (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible  
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend, in whole or in part, the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from 
the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; 
or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  13
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
