                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank




                                                                    Report No: ICR00001675



                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                       (IDA-41020)



                                                ON A

                                               CREDIT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.0 MILLION
                                   (US$15.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                               TO THE

                                         REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA

                                                FOR A

                                        URBAN HEATING PROJECT



                                           November 29, 2011




Energy and Infrastructure Sector Unit
Sustainable Development Department
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective: November 22, 2011)

                            Currency Unit = Armenian Dram (AMD)
                                   AMD 1.00 = US$ 0.0026
                                     US$ 1.00 = AMD 384

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                        July 1 – June 30

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BOT         Board of Trustees
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CHP         Combined Heat and Power
CO          Carbon Monoxide
CO2         Carbon Dioxide
CPS         Country Partnership Strategy
DH          District Heating
EMP         Environmental Management Plan
EIRR        Economic Internal Rate of Return
FIRR        Financial Internal Rate of Return
FM          Financial Management
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GEF         Global Environmental Facility
GOA         Government of Armenia
GPOBA       The Global Partnership on Output-Based Aid
HOA         Home Owner Association
IDA         International Development Agency
IFRS        International Financial Reporting Standards
kWh         Kilowatt Hour
MENR        Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources
NBFI        Non-Bank Financial Institution
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
NPV         Net Present Value
OBA         Output-Based Aid
OM          Operations Manual
PFBP        Poverty Family Benefit Program
PFI         Participating Financial Institution
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
PRSP        Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QAG         Quality Assurance Group
R2E2 Fund   Renewable Resources and Energy Efficiency Fund
UHP         Urban Heating Project
UHS         Urban Heating Strategy
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
USAID       United States Agency for International Development

                                Vice President:   Philippe H. Le Houerou
                              Country Director:   Asad Alam
                               Sector Manager:    Ranjit J. Lamech
                          Project Team Leader:    Ani Balabanyan
                             ICR Team Leader:     Ani Balabanyan
                          ICR Primary Author:     Arthur Kochnakyan
                                                           ARMENIA
                                                    URBAN HEATING PROJECT




                                                                  CONTENTS


A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring (if any)
I. Disbursement Profile

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 2
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................ 13
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 16
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 17

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 25
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 28
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 30
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 33
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 34
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...................... 42
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 43
Annex 10. Map IBRD ARM33364 ............................................................................... 43
.
A. Basic Information
Country:               Armenia                 Project Name:             Urban Heating Project
Project ID:            P057880                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-41020
ICR Date:              11/22/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                         GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                         ARMENIA
Original Total
                       XDR 10.00M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 9.97M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        XDR 9.97M
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
 Renewable Resources and Energy Efficiency Fund
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
      Process            Date              Process            Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/23/2003    Effectiveness:            02/28/2006        02/28/2006
                                                                                 06/09/2010
Appraisal:             03/01/2005    Restructuring(s):
                                                                                 11/14/2010
Approval:              07/12/2005    Mid-term Review:          06/30/2008        07/31/2008
                                     Closing:                  06/30/2010        06/01/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
          Bank                   Ratings           Borrower                       Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory         Government:                 Satisfactory
                                             Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                     Satisfactory
                                             Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                 Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                                     Satisfactory
Performance:                                 Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                              Indicators                                        Rating
     Performance                                     any)
 Potential Problem Project                       Quality at Entry
                           No                                           Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                          Quality of Supervision
                           No                                           None
time (Yes/No):                                   (QSA):
 DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General education sector                                          30                   30
General energy sector                                             25                   25
Housing construction                                              15                   15
Other social services                                             25                   25
Sub-national government administration                             5                    5




Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other financial and private sector development                      17                  17
Pollution management and environmental health                       17                  17
Regulation and competition policy                                   17                  17
Social safety nets                                                  16                  16
Urban services and housing for the poor                             33                  33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou             Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Asad Alam                          D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:            Ranjit J. Lamech                   Peter D. Thomson
Project Team Leader:       Ani Balabanyan                     Gevorg Sargsyan
ICR Team Leader:           Ani Balabanyan
ICR Primary Author:        Artur Kochnakyan


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objective is to increase the use of clean, efficient, safe and affordable
heating technologies in urban schools and multi-apartment buildings.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                               Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                 approval                           Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                documents)                           Target Years
                  Share of households in multi-apartment buildings with safe gas-   or hot water based
Indicator 1 :
                  heating
Value
quantitative or   11                        50                                 70.9
Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/31/2005                 07/13/2005                         06/01/2011
Comments          142% achievement. The over-achievement was primarily due to increased public
(incl. %          awareness about clean, safe and affordable heating technologies, availability of
achievement)      heating loans, and adoption and enforcement of gas equipment safety regulations.
                  Cumulative number of targeted schools with classroom temperature above 15 C and
Indicator 2 :
                  no idle class-room days resulted by inadequate heating
Value
quantitative or   -                         95                                 112
Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/31/2005                07/13/2005                         06/01/2011
Comments
                  118% achievement. Strong competition at bidding stage contributed to lower
(incl. %
                  investment costs.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Reduced incidence of CO poisoning, fires and explosions per 10,000 gas connection
Value
quantitative or   37                        20                                 10.4
Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/31/2005                07/13/2005                         06/01/2011
Comments
                  148% achievement. The over-achievement was primarily due to adoption and
(incl. %
                  enforcement of gas safety rules and regulations.
achievement)
                  % of targeted users satisfied with heating conditions (when compared before and
Indicator 4 :
                  after installation)
                                                                               All of the schools
                                                                               with rehabilitated
                                                                               heating systems and
Value
                                                                               beneficiaries under
quantitative or   -                          80
                                                                               the on-lending
Qualitative)
                                                                               component as well
                                                                               as 90.6% of the
                                                                               urban poor
Date achieved     01/31/2005                 07/13/2005                        06/01/2011
Comments
                  125% achievement for urban schools and beneficiaries of heating sub-loans; 100%
(incl. %
                  achievement for urban poor.
achievement)
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                                Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                  approval                      Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                 documents)                     Target Years
                  Number of private entities (equipment manufacturers, ESCOs, and others) engaged
Indicator 1 :
                  in heating business
Value
(quantitative     -                          40                                  76
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/31/2005                 06/30/2010                            06/01/2011
Comments          165% achievement. The over-achievement was due to demand for heating
(incl. %          equipment created by the project, availability of heating loans and increased public
achievement)      awareness about the benefits of safe, clean and affordable heating.
                  Number of HOAs and private businesses receiving technical assistance from the
Indicator 2 :
                  advisory center and the R2E2 Fund
Value
(quantitative     -                          100                                 106
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/31/2005                 06/30/2010                          06/01/2011
Comments
(incl. %          106% achievement.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Safety norms and standards are developed and enforced
                                                                                 Two comprehensive
                                                                                 safety regulations
                                                                                 for gas devices and
                                                                                 five EN residential
Value                                        Standards and
                                                                                 gas equipment and
(quantitative     No adequate standards      norms are enforced
                                                                                 gas connection
or Qualitative)                              and monitored
                                                                                 safety standards
                                                                                 were adopted and
                                                                                 are enforced by the
                                                                                 Government
Date achieved     01/31/2005                 06/30/2010                          06/01/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Aggregate dollar amount of projects for residential heating, energy efficiency, and
Indicator 4 :     gas supply financed by the R2E2 Fund/PFIs and co-financed by beneficiaries
                  ($ 000)
Value
(quantitative     -                          4,200                               9,040
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/31/2005                 06/30/2010                          06/01/2011
Comments          215% achievement. The over-achievement was due to strong demand for heating
(incl. %          sub-loans, quick allocation of funds by the PFIs and co-financing of heating sub-
achievement)      loans by the PFIs.
Indicator 5 :     Loan repayment rates by the project beneficiaries
Value
(quantitative     -                            95%                              99%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/31/2005                   06/30/2010                       06/01/2011
Comments
(incl. %          104% achievement
achievement)
                  Number of poor households who received capital grants for gas or hot water based
Indicator 6 :
                  heating services
Value
(quantitative                  -               10,000             8,000         8,265
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/31/2005                   06/30/2010         12/31/2010    06/01/2011
Comments
(incl. %          103% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Number of schools with improved heating services
Value
(quantitative                  -               100                117           120
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/31/2005                   07/30/2010         12/31/2010    06/01/2011
Comments
(incl. %          103% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Investment cost per student (US$)
Value
(quantitative                  -               120                              100
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/31/2005                 06/30/2010                       06/01/2011
Comments          Actual investment cost per student was US$ 100 compared to the target of US$ 120.
(incl. %          This was due to strong competition during the tenders for school heating system
achievement)      rehabilitation works.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                                DO                          IP               Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1      06/28/2006             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                 1.70
  2      09/28/2006             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                 2.30
  3      01/14/2007             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                 4.34
  4     09/11/2007          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   6.16
  5     02/22/2008          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   9.50
  6     08/29/2008          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  11.89
  7     01/15/2009          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  12.43
  8     06/23/2009          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  13.15
  9     10/14/2009          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  13.40
 10     04/13/2010          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  13.70
 11     10/14/2010          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  14.05
 12     03/24/2011          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  14.68


H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at     Amount
                   Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at       Reason for Restructuring &
                  Approved
    Date(s)                                 Restructuring         Key Changes Made
                 PDO Change DO       IP
                                           in USD millions
                                                           The credit proceeds were
                                                           reallocated from "capital grants
                                                           to the poor" sub-component to
                                                           "school heating" component.
                                                           There was lack of demand for
                                                           capital grants mostly due to
                                                           increasing gas tariffs and, to
                                                           some extent, the fact that
                                                           remaining urban poor under the
                                                           existing poverty eligibility score
   06/09/2010        N        S       S         13.70      had secured gas-based heating.
                                                           Therefore,     the    Government
                                                           decided to reallocate the funds to
                                                           allow for rehabilitation of
                                                           additional schools. Moreover, in
                                                           order to complete rehabilitation
                                                           of additional urban schools, the
                                                           Government requested the Bank
                                                           to extend the project closing date
                                                           from June 30, 2010 to December
                                                           31, 2010.
                                                           The Government requested
                                                           another extension of the project
   11/14/2010        N        S       S         14.25      closing date to rehabilitate
                                                           heating systems of additional
                                                           schools.
I. Disbursement Profile
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal
In 1990-1995, Armenia faced economic collapse and increasing poverty levels. The hardships were
compounded by severe energy crisis that followed independence. Due to closure of the nuclear power
plant in 1988 as well as regular interruptions of Russian gas imports through neighboring Georgia,
Armenia became almost entirely dependent on its hydropower resources for electricity generation
purposes. The population suffered through several brutal winters with little more than two hours of
electricity per day.

Since 1996, the Government of Armenia undertook structural reforms in the power sector and the
sector substantially recovered from the severe deterioration of the early 1990s. However, little
progress was made in the heating sub-sector. Most of the district heating systems, which provided
nearly all of the heating and hot water supply to residential and public buildings, discontinued
operation after 1992. The remaining few systems that supplied winter space heating collapsed in 2003
after the Government had abolished the substantial fuel subsidies.

The removal of fuel subsidies and the collapse of the district heating systems led to increased reliance
on unsafe and polluting heating technologies and fuels. In 2001-2002, more than 65 percent of the
urban population living in multi-apartment buildings relied on individual heating solutions based on
expensive electricity or polluting solid fuels (wood, coal, oil and waste). Moreover, heating was not
affordable for many of the poor. Lack of clean and safe heating was also a major issue for urban
schools. Due to lack of heating these schools had to close for winter months and even when
operational, the in-door classroom temperatures were around 8-10˚C, which negatively affected the
health of the children and the quality of education.

The pervasive use of inefficient, polluting and unsafe heating fuels and technologies in multi-
apartment buildings and schools was associated with significant safety, economic, health and
environmental effects, including: (a) increasing number of deaths, injuries and damage to buildings
caused by gas and CO2 poisonings, fires and explosions; (b) increasing heating expenditures. In 2002-
2004, the heating expenditures accounted for up to 50 percent of the households’ total income during
the winter months; (c) deforestation and detrimental health implications due to use of wood for
heating; (d) negative impact on the quality of education and health of children.

In 2002, the Government adopted the Urban Heating Strategy (UHS) with the objective to facilitate
access to efficient, clean, safe and affordable heating services. The UHS provided the strategic
framework for the short-, medium- and long-term development of the country’s urban heating sector.

The project was well aligned with the strategic objectives of the Government and supported the key
objective of the UHS to promote access to efficient, clean, safe and affordable heating services
through support in removal of legal and regulatory, financial and informational barriers. The project
directly supported one of the key priorities of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) –
increased access to heating services through development of local heating systems, and improved
quality of education through improvement of heating and building conditions of schools. The project
also supported one of the key objectives of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for FY 2005-2008
to promote private sector led economic growth and reduce non-income poverty by promoting
establishment and growth of private sector energy service companies and by increasing access to
environmentally clean and safe heating services.

1.2     Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The PDO was to increase the use of clean, efficient, safe and affordable heating technologies in urban
schools and multi-apartment buildings. The key performance indicators of the project at appraisal
were:
 Share of households in multi-apartment buildings with safe gas- or hot-water-based heating;
 Cumulative number of targeted schools with class temperature above 15˚C and no idle classroom-
   days, resulting from inadequate heating;
 Reduced incidence of CO poisonings, fires and explosions (per 10,000 gas subscribers); and
 Share of targeted users satisfied with heating conditions (when comparing before and after
   installation).

1.3     Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The PDO and the key performance indicators were not revised. However, the results indicators for the
“capital grants to the poor? sub-component and the “school heating component? of the project were
revised in the final year of the project implementation to reflect the reallocation of credit proceeds.
Specifically, the Government and the World Bank agreed to:
 Reduce the results indicator for the “capital grants to the poor? sub-component from the original
    target of 10,000 to 8,000.
 Increase the results indicator for the “school heating component? from the original target of 100 to
    117.

1.4     Main Beneficiaries
The main beneficiaries of the project’s technical assistance component were all users of gas-based
heating in the country since it contributed to significant reduction in the number of natural gas use
related accidents.

The main beneficiaries of the “financing for heating and related infrastructure? component were
15,490 households of the multi-apartment buildings in the urban areas. The participating financial
institutions (PFI) under the project provided heating loans to 7,225 households for purchase of clean
and safe individual gas-based heaters or boilers, increasing the accessibility of safe heating equipment.
This component also provided capital grants to the 8,265 urban poor to connect to the gas service
and/or receive an individual gas-based heater.

The main beneficiaries of the “school heating? component of the project were about 57,000 people in
30 cities of Armenia, including 55,400 students, around 1200 teachers and other support staff.




                                                   2
1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component A: Community and private sector mobilization and development of an enabling
environment for effective and safe provision of heating services (US$ 3.9 million, of which IDA
funding US$ 1 million). Technical assistance was to be provided in two areas:

A1. (US$ 1.1 million, of which IDA funding US$ 0.5 million). Development of enabling environment
for effective and safe provision of heating services including:
 Development of regulations, safety norms and standards, and certification of suppliers and
    equipment, including for natural gas supply;
 Improvement of legal and regulatory framework to make home owner associations (HOAs) more
    functional and to foster market-based provision of heating services.
A2. (US$ 2.8 million, of which IDA funding US$ 0.5 million). Community and private sector
mobilization through:
 Capacity building of heat service providers, local financial institutions, and HOAs;
 Implementation of broad information campaigns and public education programs to inform the
    public about the available new heating technologies and their benefits, safety norms and standards,
    the need and benefits of using environmentally clean and safe heating solutions and the new
    approaches to community-led provision of communal services;
 Establishment of special advisory center(s) to provide private sector and communities with support
    on legal, technical, and financial matters of modern energy supply;
 Assistance in preparation of sub-projects under B1.

Most of the technical assistance (TA) above was to be supplied by UNDP/GEF and USAID TA
projects in close collaboration with this project.

Component B: Financing of heating and related infrastructure (US$ 10.0 million, of which IDA
funding US$ 7.2 million). Investment financing for heating of residential buildings was to be
supported under two subcomponents:

B.1 Lending to project beneficiaries (US$ 6.0 million, of which IDA funding US$ 4.2 million). This
sub-component was to enable heat providers, HOAs, municipalities and individual home-owners to
access funding for heating infrastructure investments. The Renewable Resources and Energy
Efficiency Fund (R2E2 Fund) would on-lend funds to eligible participating financial institutions
(PFIs) that would in turn extend loans to beneficiaries.
B.2 Capital grants to the poor (US$ 4.0 million, of which IDA funding US$ 3.0 million). To enable the
poorest households living in multi-apartment buildings to participate in the project and thus gain
access to improved heating, this component was envisaged to finance investments necessary for the
connection of gas, heat and hot water supply to the apartments of the poor. Eligible households were
identified based on the existing Poverty Family Benefit Plan (PFBP). The Bank team leveraged US$
3.0 million grant from Global Partnership on Output-Based Aid to supplement this component of the
project.

Component C: School heating (US$ 6.25 million, of which IDA funding US$ 5.0 million). This
component was to provide grant financing to urban schools for investments in installation and
rehabilitation of gas-based local heating systems and basic thermal rehabilitation. All urban schools


                                                  3
outside Yerevan were eligible for financing, provided they were in satisfactory technical condition,
had suitable engineering design, and gas supply was available in the area. Cost-effectiveness of the
investment per student was the selection criteria for urban schools. If funds were left after financing of
investments in all eligible urban schools, the additional funds were planned to be provided to schools
in Yerevan.

Component D: Support for project implementation (US$ 0.8 million, of which IDA funding
US$ 0.8 million). This included TA, goods, works and logistical support to the R2E2 Fund for project
implementation, monitoring and supervision.

Component E: Project preparation (US$ 1.0 million, of which IDA funding US$ 1.0 million).
This component was identical with the project preparation facility, which supported various activities
that provided the foundation for successful project implementation: awareness building and
mobilization of heat providers and consumers; removal of some of the legal and regulatory barriers;
and design of the institutions involved in project implementation. Most importantly, 10 pilot projects
were completed during the 2003/04 and 2004/05 heating seasons through HOAs, private sector heat
service providers, and individuals.

1.6    Revised Components
The original project components were not revised.

1.7     Other significant changes
Reallocation of credit proceeds and project closing date extension: The credit proceeds were
reallocated from “capital grants to the poor? sub-component to “school heating? component. There
was decrease in the demand for capital grants from the urban poor. This was primarily due to
increasing gas tariffs and, to some extent, the fact that the remaining urban poor under the existing
poverty eligibility score had secured gas-based heating. Therefore, the Government decided to
reallocate the funds to allow for rehabilitation of additional urban schools, including special schools
for children with disabilities. To complete the rehabilitation of the additional urban schools, the
Government requested the Bank to also extend the project closing date from June 30, 2010 to
December 31, 2010. The Bank concurred with the Government’s request and the proposed changes
were approved by the Country Director in June 2010.

Second closing date extension: The Government requested another extension of the project closing
date to complete rehabilitation of heating systems of additional schools. The Country Director
approved the request and the closing date was extended from December 31, 2010 till June 1, 2011.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Below is the analysis of major factors that contributed to project achievement and shortcomings.

Soundness of background analysis: The project design was underpinned by the sector work carried out
prior to project preparation (Urban Heating Strategy for Armenia: Summary Report and
Recommendations; Review of Social Aspects of Heat Supply Rehabilitation and Heating Demand
Analysis) and was structured around the Urban Heating Strategy (UHS) of the Government, adopted in


                                                    4
2002. The project was designed to help remove the key legal and regulatory, institutional, financial
and information barriers that impeded introduction of affordable and environmentally friendly heating
services. The project drew extensively on the sector work and the experience of designing and
implementing heating projects in Europe and Central Asia Region (ECA).

Assessment of the project design: The PDO was well-defined, realistic and consistent with the key
objective of the UHS to facilitate access to clean, safe, affordable and efficient heating services. The
PDO was consistent with one of the main goals of FY 2005-2008 CAS for Armenia - reduction of
non-income poverty through provision of better access to basic infrastructure. The project components
and key outcome indicators were fully compliant with the PDO. The design of project components
reflected the following lessons learned from project preparation, other Bank projects and analytical
work:
a. Piloting of different technical heating options and contractual and commercial arrangements can be
    instrumental for sound project design. The project design incorporated the key findings of pilot
    projects financed under the PPF that included the following: (a) consumers were interested in safe
    and affordable gas-based heating; (b) institutional capacity of HOAs was essential for good
    management of block-level (collective) heating solutions; and (c) public awareness was important
    for securing the interest and support of residents of multi-apartment buildings for centralized
    heating projects.
b. Demand-driven approach to selection of heating options is important for low-income countries
    with large income disparities. The outcomes of district heating rehabilitation projects in relatively
    advanced economies of Central Europe and low-income countries, and findings of the Bank’s
    analytical work in ECA (see “Coping with the Cold,? World Bank 2002) suggested that due to
    large share of poor customers district heating could not be turned into a viable business unless the
    governments continuously subsidized the poor customers, which the low-income country
    governments could not afford. Thus, the project did not mandate heating solutions and relied on
    demand-driven approach.
c. Institutional capacity building and legal/regulatory reforms are essential for sustainability of heat
    service provision. Thus, the project had TA component aimed at addressing legal, regulatory,
    informational and institutional obstacles impeding increased penetration of safe, affordable and
    clean heating.
d. The lines of credits work well if these are designed based on commercial principles. The on-
    lending component of the project was well-designed as it: (i) relied on existing financial
    institutions; (ii) had well-specified and clear eligibility criteria for financial institutions; (iii)
    required co-financing by sub-borrowers; (iv) followed the “first-come, first -served? principal,
    which was expected to foster competition among financial institutions and (iv) was commercially
    driven with requirement to fully collect the principal and interest.
e. The best practice subsidies for increasing low-income households’ access to basic infrastructure
    services cover capital costs only, are linked to performance and outputs, are well targeted, have
    low administration costs, are less prone to collusion and are properly funded. The output-based
    subsidy scheme under the project incorporated all of the above characteristics.

The project had significant geographical outreach. The component on financing of heating
infrastructure was demand-driven and expected to create benefits for residents of multi-apartment
buildings in over 40 urban areas outside of Yerevan. The school heating component originally targeted



                                                    5
rehabilitation of 100 schools in urban areas outside of Yerevan, which was expected to generate
benefits for around 50,000 school-age children in urban areas throughout the country.

The implementing agency of the project, the R2E2 Fund, had adequate capacity to implement the
project. The R2E2 Fund was established by the Government Decree No.799N of April 28, 2005 as a
non-commercial entity with the objective of facilitating investments in renewable energy and energy
efficiency sectors and promoting development of renewable energy and energy efficiency markets in
Armenia. The R2E2 Fund had solid management team with adequate qualifications and extensive
experience to effectively implement the project. The operations of the R2E2 Fund were overseen by
the Board of Trustees.

Donor partnership: The investment and TA components of the project were designed considering
various donor-funded initiatives supporting development of the heating sector in Armenia. Specifically,
the project was well coordinated with the US$ 2.9 million UNDP/GEF project on “Improving the
Energy Efficiency of Urban Heating and Hot Water Supply in Armenia? and the USAID US$ 3million
“Program for Improved Heat Sector Management and Delivery of Heat Supply in Armenia.? The
UNDP/GEF project was designed as technical assistance complementing the Bank project. It was
targeted at: (a) strengthening the role of HOAs in the collective organization and management of
provision of heat and hot water supply services; (b) supporting the municipalities in managing heat
supply assets and improving heat supply services; (c) supporting emerging new service providers in
offering their services to HOAs to promote the use of alternative environmentally clean and energy
efficient technologies by improvement the regulatory framework; and (d) promoting development of
energy efficient heat and hot water supply services in Armenia. The USAID project was planned to
focus on technical assistance and pilot projects to support emerging heat service providers in realizing
least-cost solutions that enhance effective management and reduce environmental costs. However, the
USAID project was cancelled in 2008.

Adequacy of Government commitment: The Government commitment to project objectives and
ownership of the project were strong. The Government adopted the UHS, eliminated the non-targeted
subsidies to the centralized heating sector, and amended the Energy Law to streamline the regulatory
framework.

Assessment of risks: The risk assessment was thorough and focused on both PDO level risks and
component result risks; the identified mitigation measures were appropriate and drew on experience of
similar projects in the region. Two of the identified risks materialized- the gas prices substantially
increased and the apartment residents did not organize to contract heating services. However, the
project’s careful design and the correctly identified mitigation measures ensured successful
achievement of the PDO and results indicators. Gas price increase was moderated by the simultaneous
increase in competing heating alternatives- the electricity tariffs and prices of fire-wood- which does
not jeopardize the long-term viability of project achievements given that gas-based heating remains the
least-cost, based on recurrent costs. As suggested by the mitigation measures, in response to the lack
of resident organization for collective heating solutions, the project funds were channeled to support
individual heating solutions.

QAG review: The QAG panel reviewed the Quality at Entry on October 2008 and rated the project as
overall Satisfactory. The strategic relevance and approach; technical, financial and economic aspects;


                                                   6
implementation arrangements; and risk assessment were rated as Highly Satisfactory. The policy and
institutional aspects; environmental aspects; fiduciary aspects and bank inputs and processes were
rated as Satisfactory and the poverty, gender and social development was rated Moderately
Satisfactory.

2.2    Implementation
The implementation of the project was sound and without major delays. The project funds under all of
the components except for “capital grants to the poor? sub-component were almost entirely disbursed
by 2009. The project exceeded the target outcome indicators by 2008/2009 heating season. The only
sub-component of the project that experienced implementation delays was the “capital grants to the
poor.?

The following key factors contributed to successful implementation of the project:
 Solid project design incorporating lessons from pilot projects and best practice experience of
  similar Bank supported projects: The project design reflected the lessons learned from
  implementation of 10 pilot heating projects financed under the PPF. Additionally, the project design
  extensively drew upon the experience of heating projects implemented in the region.
 Continuous Government commitment: The Government remained committed to the project
  objectives during the project implementation. Additionally, throughout the project implementation
  the key counterpart, the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, and other stakeholders,
  including Ministry of Territorial Administration, Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Economy,
  provided the needed support to facilitate implementation and resolve various project related issues.
 Effective and professional project implementing agency: The project implementing agency had
  experienced project management, fiduciary and technical staff and ensured effective and timely
  implementation and sound supervision of the project.

The following key factors caused delays in implementation of the project:
 Novelty of OBA subsidy scheme to Armenia. The “capital grants to the poor? sub-component was
  implemented through an OBA scheme, which was novel to Armenia. Specifically, the monopoly
  gas company and the contractors it procured to connect the apartments of the eligible poor to the
  gas network and install gas heaters were unfamiliar with the output-based approach of disbursing
  funds, which initially caused delays in the procurement process. Additionally, at early stages of
  implementation, the procurement methods and approach were not flexible to respond to the
  demand-driven nature of the scheme, changes in the market conditions and institutional framework
  of the sector. The relatively slow progress with the implementation of the “capital grants to the poor?
  sub-component was also due to low commercial value the gas company placed on additional
  consumers it gained through the OBA scheme; the average annual gas consumption of the urban
  poor, which benefited from the OBA scheme, was around 3 times lower than the country average.

2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The key outcome indicators for the project were relevant to the PDO and consistent with the project
components. The outcome indicators were well defined. However, the baseline data for some of the
key outcome indicators was not available at appraisal. The data for outcome indicators was collected
through Heating Surveys conducted by an independent consulting firm and through information
provided by the State Emergency Department. The PFIs were presenting regular reports to the R2E2
Fund on lending to project beneficiaries. Those data reports were combined with the R2E2’s own


                                                   7
statistics and made available to the Bank. The R2E2 Fund cooperated with the State Statistical Service
for the latter to start collecting heating related indicators as part of annual household surveys. This
would ensure the sustainability of heating related statistics. Seven heating related questions were
added to the household survey questionnaire of 2009. The Government is currently considering
inclusion of the urban heating statistics in regular Household Surveys conducted by the National
Statistical Service.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Environmental and Social Safeguards: The project design took into account the Bank’s safeguard
policies and included procedures and implementation arrangements to ensure full consideration of
environmental safeguards. The project was assigned the “Financial Intermediary? environmental
screening category and triggered only OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment). The project Operational
Manual (OM) had an Environmental Chapter providing detailed description of the process for
assessment of sub-projects and school heating rehabilitation to be financed under the project. The
EMP adequately described the potential threats and their mitigations. The project did not have
significant or irreversible long-term negative environmental impacts. The limited environmental
impacts were caused by construction of boiler houses and replacement of in-facility pipelines. The
implementing agency staff conducted regular field visits to supervise the compliance of rehabilitation
works at schools with EMP and did not identify any issues. The Bank’s environmental specialist also
did not identify any environmental issues and deviations from the EMP.

Procurement: Procurement under the project was carried out in accordance with the project design and
in compliance with the legal agreement. The R2E2 Fund had adequate procurement capacity with
qualified procurement specialist and accurate as well as comprehensive procurement filing. The
bidding documents, evaluation reports and contracts were prepared and presented in a competent
manner. No major procurement issues were identified during the project implementation.

Financial Management: During the project appraisal and implementation the financial management
arrangements under the project, including accounting and financial reporting, internal control
procedures, planning and budgeting, external audit, funds flow, organization and staffing arrangements,
were overall adequate and acceptable to the Bank. The level and timeliness of the government co-
financing was satisfactory. Overall, the Interim un-audited financial reports (IFRs) were of adequate
quality and submitted to the Bank without delays.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
In order to secure sustainability of project results, the following key activities need to be implemented:
 Proper operation and maintenance of heating systems at schools: The schools that had their heating
   systems rehabilitated under the project have designated employees who ensure proper operation and
   maintenance of the heating system during winter season, as well as appropriate maintenance after
   the heating season. The schools need to continue the practice of relying on adequately qualified
   technicians to operate and maintain the heating systems, especially the gas boilers.
 Exit strategy for the R2E2 Fund: The R2E2 Fund gained significant experience though the
   implementation of the Bank financed projects. Therefore, the Government decided to continue
   relying on the R2E2 Fund for promoting the development of renewable energy and energy
   efficiency investments in the country. The Government has decided that the R2E2 Fund will
   continue administering the revolving funds under the Bank financed Urban Heating and Renewable


                                                    8
     Energy Projects, which have closed. Specifically, the R2E2 Fund will on-lend the revolving funds
     to PFIs to finance energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. Also, the Government has
     decided that the R2E2 Fund will implement the new public sector energy efficiency project.

Proposed follow-up project: During the implementation of the project, electricity and gas prices in the
country substantially increased and the Government started to pay increasing attention to the energy
efficiency. The 2008 World Bank Study 1 found that Armenia had substantial energy efficiency
potential. In particular, the study estimated that energy efficiency investments in public facilities (e.g.
schools, kindergartens, hospitals, street lighting) have the shortest paybacks – from 2 to 8 years.
Considering the above, the Government has applied for a Global Environment Facility (GEF) grant for
an energy efficiency project for public facilities. The Government plans to use the GEF grant,
leveraged by around US$8 million of revolving funds under the recently completed Bank financed
Urban Heating and Renewable Energy Projects, to finance energy efficiency investments of public
facilities and support implementation of key measures of the Government’s Energy Efficiency Action
Plan for 2011-2013. The proposed energy efficiency project will contribute to sustainability of results
under the Urban Heating Project by mitigating the impact of rising natural gas prices and averting the
reversal of achievements under the Urban Heating Project.

3.       Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Relevance of the project objective is rated high. The objective was relevant to and consistent with the
development priorities of the Government as reflected in the PRSP (2005) and Sustainable
Development Program (2008). The Government prioritized increased use of safe, affordable and clean
heating technologies, which in addition to direct benefits created significant indirect benefits in the
form of improved quality of education and improved health of population. The project objective is
consistent with the current development priorities, as reflected the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS)
with Armenia for FY 2009-2012. A key objectives of the CPS is to address the vulnerabilities by
supporting increased access of urban households and schools to safe gas-based heating. The project
objective was relevant for the FY 2005-2008 CAS for Armenia, a main goal of which was the
reduction of non-income poverty through provision of better access to basic infrastructure.

3.2      Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Achievement of the project development objective is rated satisfactory. The project made significant
progress in meeting the development objective and exceeded all of the key performance indicators:
(i) 70 percent of households in multi-apartment buildings with safe gas- or hot-water-based heating
      compared to the project target of 50 percent.
(ii) 112 urban schools with average class temperature of 18˚C and no idle classroom-days, resulting
      from inadequate heating, compared to the project target of 100.
(iii) 10 cases of CO poisonings, fires and explosions per 10,000 gas connections, compared to the
      project target of 20.


1
 “The Other Renewable Resource: The Potential for Improving Energy Efficiency in Armenia. World Bank Report. July
2008.



                                                         9
(iv) All the schools with rehabilitated heating systems and beneficiaries of the on-lending component
     as well as 91 percent of the urban poor receiving capital grants for connection to the gas network,
     were satisfied with heating conditions, compared to the project target of 80 percent.

The project met the development objective through:
(i)     Mobilization of the community and private sector and development of enabling environment
for commercial provision of heating services. The project supported mobilization of communities and
the private sector for commercial provision of heating services. Since the lack of installation workers
was a major bottleneck for penetration of safe gas-based heating equipment in the regions, the project
supported training for over 400 people in fifteen cities covering ten Marzes of the country to provide
heater/boiler installation services. The project also supported preparation of gas safety standards and
norms. Two comprehensive gas safety regulations were developed and five residential gas equipment
and gas connection safety standards were adopted and are enforced by the Government. Additionally,
the project supported development and dissemination of user-friendly guides on the usage of natural
gas for heating purposes in residential apartments and operation of new boilers installed in the urban
schools. To increase the awareness about the benefits of clean and safe heating technologies, the
project supported implementation of broad information campaigns and public education programs as
well as three heating exhibitions presenting available safe and clean heating equipment and
technologies. The PR campaign was implemented through in-person meetings organized in regional
urban centers and through media outlets, including TV and radio. The above activities significantly
contributed to reduction of CO poisoning, fire and explosion cases from 37 per 10,000 gas connections
in 2004/2005 heating season to 10 in 2009/2010.

(ii)    Provision of financing to consumers for investments in heat supply systems. The project
increased availability of heat supply systems for residents by provision of loans and capital grants to
the poor. The PFIs under the on-lending component of the project provided sub-loans to residents of
multi-apartment buildings to finance purchase and installation of individual gas-based heaters and/or
boilers. Before the project, the financial institutions did not offer any loans to finance heating
infrastructure and the residents had to pay the full cost of the heater/boiler and other auxiliary
infrastructure at once. The PFIs provided 7,225 sub-loans for purchase of heaters and boilers with total
value of US$ 9.04 million. The successful experience of consumer lending for heating infrastructure
stimulated quick replication by other financial institutions. Heating loans became a standard consumer
lending product for the financial sector of Armenia. Presently, all of the 22 commercial banks and 7
universal credit organizations provide loans for purchase and installation of heaters and boilers.

(iii)   Provision of capital grants to the poor for connection to the gas service. To increase
accessibility of safe and clean gas-based heating services to the poor, the project provided capital
grants for installation of gas heaters and/or connection of the poor households’ apartments to the gas
network. The capital grants were disbursed through an output-based approach. This created incentives
for the gas company to ensure timely completion of heater installations and gas connections and early
delivery of gas supply. The poverty impact of capital grants was substantial since it targeted the most
vulnerable groups of population, which had daily income below US$ 1.1 and could not afford to clean
and safe heater and gas connection with total cost of around US$ 700. The project supported
connection of 8,265 urban poor to the gas service at an average investment cost of US$ 588 (excluding
an average of US$ 25 co-financing by the poor).



                                                  10
(iv)    Rehabilitation of the heating systems of urban schools. To increase accessibility of safe, clean
and affordable heating for schools, the project supported rehabilitation of heating systems of 120 urban
schools, which were in satisfactory technical condition and where gas supply was available nearby.
The original project target was to rehabilitate heating systems of 100 urban schools. However, savings
due to sound competition for construction works and reallocation of funds allowed rehabilitating
heating systems of additional 20 schools, Moreover, in 13 of the additional schools basic energy
efficiency measures were implemented, which reduced the energy consumption of those schools by an
average of 30-40 percent. The actual average investment cost per student was US$ 1002 compared to
the original results indicator of US$ 120. 112 of the schools with rehabilitated heating systems were
heated in 2010/2011 heating season and had average class-room temperatures of 16-18˚C and no idle
school days resulting from inadequate heating. .

3.3     Efficiency
The post-completion economic and financial cost-benefit analysis was conducted for each major
component of the project - lending to project beneficiaries, school heating and capital grants to the
poor. Overall, the project achieved the development objectives in a cost-effective manner (see Annex
3 for details).

Lending to project beneficiaries. The economic impact of this component of the project was
significant. The beneficiaries gained access to safe and cost-effective heating at a reasonable
investment cost. The main quantifiable economic benefit was the cost saving due to switching from
electricity to gas-based heating. At completion, those investments were estimated to have NPV of
US$ 17.0 million and EIRR of 29 percent, lower than the appraisal stage NPV of US$ 19.2 million and
an EIRR of 34 percent. Both the appraisal and completion stage EIRRs underestimate the true
economic returns to the residents of multi-apartment buildings and society at large since they do not
include the non-monetary benefits of improved health and comfort, reduced incidences of gas
poisonings and explosions, in-door air pollution, reduction of GHG emissions and deforestation.

The main financial benefit from an investment in an individual heating solution was the financial cost
saving due to switching from electricity to gas-based heating. At completion, the investment in an
individual heating solution was estimated to have NPV of US$ 91 and FIRR of 10.5 percent, lower
than the appraisal stage FIRR of around 22 percent.3

Some decrease in post-completion economic and financial viability of investments was due to the
increase of heating equipment costs and the increase of gas tariff for consumers.

School heating. This component of the project generated substantial value for money as it enabled the
schools to increase class-room indoor temperature and eliminate idle school days in a cost-effective
way. The key quantifiable economic benefit of the school heating component of the project was the
reduction of heating expenditures of urban schools due to cost savings of switching from electricity to
gas and reduction of energy consumption resulting from installation of more efficient heating systems
and implementation of energy efficiency measures in some schools. The completion stage NPV and


2
    At PAD exchange rate of 1US$ = 495 AMD as of January 27, 2005.
3
    There has been no estimate of NPV of individual heating solution at appraisal stage.


                                                              11
EIRR were estimated at US$ 14.1 million and 53 percent, which is higher than the appraisal stage
NPV of US$ 6.8 million and EIRR of 26 percent. The project generated other important economic
benefits that were not quantified, including improvement of the building stock, higher comfort levels,
reduced air pollution, and related improvement of health of students, and better quality of education.

Capital grants to the poor. The economic efficiency of this component was substantial as it increased
the access of the urban poor to cost-effective, clean and safe gas-based heating. The analysis of
financial viability for this component is based on cost effectiveness criteria. The total investment cost
per poor household for installation of a heater and connection to the gas service was US$ 588. The
poor households received capital grants to finance the investment and thus their heating bills consisted
of the variable cost for heating. For a poor family with a gas-based heater, the recurrent cost of heating
for 120 days and to 15-16˚C was an average of US$ 40. If electricity or firewood were used to heat the
apartments to the same comfort level, the recurrent costs would have been US$ 58 and US$ 44
respectively.

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
The overall outcome of the project is rated Satisfactory due to high relevance of the project and
achievement of the project development objective as measured by the key performance indicators. The
project contributed to significant increase in the use of clean, efficient, safe and affordable heating
technologies in multi-apartment buildings and urban schools.

Private sector mobilization and development of an enabling environment for effective and safe
provision of heating services, including support for development of in-house gas safety rules and
regulations as well as nation-wide information campaigns on the benefits and safety aspects of modern
gas-based heating equipment, contributed to significant reduction of heating related explosions,
poisonings and fires.

The project increased affordability of modern and safe heaters and boilers by supporting introduction
of heating loans and providing capital grants to the poor to install a heater and/or connect to the gas
network. Additionally, the project substantially improved the heating conditions in 120 urban schools
and enabled to eliminate the idle schools days due to insufficient heating.

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The project contributed to poverty reduction as it provided capital grants to 8,265 poor people (around
20 percent of all the poor registered at PFBP) with daily incomes of US$ 0.4 -1.1. The capital grants
allowed the poor to get clean and safe heaters, which had an average cost of US$ 440, and/or connect
their apartments to the gas network, which costs around US$ 150. Additionally, provision of capital
grants impacted the poverty by reducing the heating expenses of the poor.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project had the following impacts on development and strengthening of institutions in the country:
  Improvement of due diligence skills of financial institutions. Implementation of the on-lending
    component of the project helped the PFIs to improve their due diligence skills required for
    assessment of heating investments.


                                                   12
 Improvement of the capacity of the R2E2 Fund, service providers and local government bodies to
  implement OBA subsidy scheme. This was the first OBA scheme in Armenia and the key parties
  involved in implementation gained significant experience through learning-by-doing.
 Strengthening of the capacity of heating equipment suppliers. The technical trainings in the regions,
  organized through joint efforts of the R2E2 Fund and heating equipment suppliers, resulted in
  increase of adequately qualified locally available technical workers for installation of heating
  equipment.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The project financed rehabilitation of heating systems of seven special schools, which also included
refurbishment of the toilets and showers to ensure availability of adequate sanitary conditions and hot
waters supply since most of the children stay at the educational facility 24 hours a day. This had
positive social impact. Specifically, it allowed avoiding disruption of normal education process due to
poor heating comfort level and improved the quality of existing basic conveniences (e.g. toilets, hot
water in kitchens) or introduced new basic conveniences (e.g. shower cabins,) in the buildings.

The energy efficiency measures implemented in 13 urban schools generated significant additional
benefits. The energy efficiency measures reduced the energy consumption (in physical units of energy)
of those schools by an average of 30-40 percent. This translated to an average energy bill saving of
around US$ 2,700 – 3,000 per school. Moreover, these investments improved the building stock of the
schools through replacement of windows, replacement of doors, and some other measures.

3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Summarized below are the key findings of the 2010/2011 heating season monitoring survey conducted
for a sample of residents of multi-apartment buildings in all urban areas of Armenia.
 Increasing number of households switched from other fuel sources to natural gas for heating. The
    share of gas-based heating increased from 13.1 percent in 2003/2004 heating season to 69.8
    percent in 2010/2011 heating season.
 In parallel with switching to natural gas, the heating comfort levels improved. The average
    temperature in apartments increased from 15.6˚C in 2004/2005 heating season to 17.7˚C in
    2010/2011 heating season.
 The share of households that entirely heated their apartments increased from 50.2 percent in
    2004/2005 heating season to 62.8 percent in 2010/2011 heating season.

4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate
The risk that some changes might occur that are detrimental to project outcomes is rated Moderate due
to concerns over affordability of gas-based heating given the recent increases in gas tariffs. As the
natural gas import prices are set to rise further, the reliance on wood-based heating, especially among
the poor, may increase. This might impact the sustainability of project outcomes in the long-term.
However, the project outcomes will not be jeopardized in the short- to mid-term for two reasons. First,
by recurrent costs gas-based heating remains the cheapest option. Second, the comfort provided by
gas-based heating is substantially higher than for wood or other polluting fuels. Nevertheless, the
increase of reliance on wood-based heating is alarming and it is essential that the Government



                                                  13
undertake measures, e.g. by envisaging adequate subsidies for the poor, to avoid the reversal of the
achievements in the heating sector.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank’s performance during identification, preparation and appraisal of the project is rated
Satisfactory.

The proposed technical solutions under the project were sound and relied on simple and well-tested
technologies. The project design took into account the existing analytical work for heating sector in
ECA countries and the experience of similar projects. The design of the project also reflected lessons
learned from implementation of 10 pilot projects financed from the PPF, which contributed to
mitigation of risks. The project was underpinned by sound economic and financial analysis and by
robust analysis of heating options, heating affordability and preferences. In particular, several
household surveys and participatory assessment were carried out in 1999-2003, which helped to
design the “on-lending to the project beneficiaries? and “capital grants to the poor? sub-components of
the project.

The project’s environmental impacts were expected to be limited and the EA/EMP identified the site-
specific impacts associated with heating system rehabilitation works in schools. The EMP had
adequate arrangements for mitigating and monitoring the environmental impacts during project
implementation, including implementing agency’s capacity.

The fiduciary arrangements under the project were sound. The financial management assessment was
detailed and identified the key FM risks and proposed adequate mitigation measures. The procurement
arrangements reflected the project design and were overall appropriate for a project of this nature.

The policy and institutional aspects of the project were well addressed. The project design considered
the policy environment at the time of project preparation. The implementing agency had clearly
defined role and responsibilities as defined in the charter and the OM. The TA component of the
project was structured to support with filling of institutional capacity gaps identified by the UHS.

The implementation arrangements of the project were well-elaborated and considered the lessons
learned from pilot projects. The monitoring and evaluation arrangements were adequate. The outcome
indicators were clear and the numerical targets were easily measurable. The project relied on well-
established and reliable national (e.g. State Emergency Service) statistics, monitoring by the
implementing agency and biannual surveys conducted by an independent NGO for collecting data on
outcome indicators.

The risk assessment was thorough and, thus, contributed to identification of appropriate mitigation
measures. The mitigation measures drew on experience of similar projects in the region and included
significant TA and public awareness campaigns.



                                                  14
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank performance during supervision is rated as Satisfactory. The Bank Team carried out 12
supervision missions throughout the implementation period. The implementation issues encountered
were flagged and appropriate remedial actions proposed. The skill mix of supervision missions
ensured that all the key issues arising were adequately handled and the Government received the
needed advice and guidance. The project team proactively observed the situation on the ground and
made the required project restructurings to ensure that project design and objectives remain relevant.
During the project implementation, the task team composition did not change, which increased
efficiency of support provided to the Government. During supervision, the task team closely
coordinated with other donors involved in the sector. The fiduciary and safeguards aspects of the
project were adequately supervised. The implementation issues were discussed with the Government
counterparts in a constructive manner and appropriate action plans were developed and agreed with
the Government. Overall, the supervision missions provided a comprehensive assessment of the
implementation progress. The Aide-memoires and ISRs were detailed, well written and highlighted
the key issues.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The rating of overall Bank performance is Satisfactory. The Satisfactory rating of the Bank
performance at ensuring quality at entry and Satisfactory rating for quality of supervision justify the
overall Satisfactory performance of the Bank.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Government performance is rated Satisfactory due to strong commitment to achievement of the
development objective and substantial supporting role during project preparation and implementation.
There was close coordination and dialogue between Government counterparts and the Bank at all
times. The BOT of the R2E2 Fund, chaired by the Prime Minister in 2006-2009 and the Minister of
Energy and Natural Resources in 2009-2011, regularly convened to provide needed support and
guidance on various project implementation issues.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The R2E2 Fund performance is rated as Satisfactory. The R2E2 Fund was adequately staffed and
professionally managed to implement the project. The staff turn-over at the R2E2 Fund was limited,
which ensured seamless implementation of the project. The R2E2 Fund effectively managed the
investment and TA components of the project. The R2E2 Fund effectively handled the significant
work-load associated with implementation of TA, financing of heating infrastructure, and school
heating components of the project. Specifically, the school heating component of the project required
organization and conduct of several dozens of tenders, which were effectively managed and completed
by the R2E2 Fund. Implementation of the “capital grants to the poor? sub-component of the project
also required significant effort due to its novelty for Armenia; and extensive PR activities.
Additionally, the broad geographical outreach of project activities required significant input from both



                                                  15
technical staff and the management to ensure timely implementation. The R2E2 Fund closely
collaborated with other donors in the heating sector.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The overall Borrower performance is rated Satisfactory due to the satisfactory performance of the
Government and the implementing agency.

6.     Lessons Learned

The design and implementation of the project offers some lessons that might be useful in preparation
and implementation of similar projects:
 Creation of enabling environment for effective and safe provision of heating services is
   important for ensuring sustainability of project achievements. Support for development of
   regulations, safety norms and standards for heating equipment and for supply and use of gas, and
   extensive public outreach activities increased the consumer demand for safe and clean heating and
   supported emergence of private sector heating equipment suppliers.
 Well targeted, demand-driven output-based capital subsidies can be effective but timely
   implementation of such a scheme requires early preparatory work and flexibility of
   procurement. Typically, service providers and their contractors are not familiar with the output-
   based approach of disbursing funds and may not readily embrace novel ways of doing business.
   Therefore, the implementing agency should start increasing the awareness about the demand-drive
   subsidy scheme at the very early stages of project implementation. Additionally, the right mix of
   procurement methods should be selected for implementation of demand-driven subsidy scheme to
   reduce the number of tenders and provide flexibility when the market conditions change.
 Implementation of credit lines is successful when the funds are allocated transparently,
   financing terms are commercially determined and there is competition among the PFIs. The
   on-lending funds were not earmarked for PFIs, which resulted healthy competition among
   financial institutions. Further, the PFIs had freedom to determine the lending terms for the sub-
   loans while assuming full credit risk, which helped the PFIs to develop their own due diligence
   skills required for provision of heating sub-loans.
 Energy efficiency measures coupled with rehabilitation of heating systems substantially
   increase the sustainability of heating investments. The schools, where basic energy efficiency
   measures were implemented in addition to rehabilitation of the heating systems saw significant
   decrease of their energy bills. This contributes to sustainability of safe and clean heating given
   rising natural gas prices.
 Collective heating solutions may be hard to implement even if those are the least-cost option.
   The ability of communities for self-mobilization when dealing with heat service providers is
   overestimated. Consumers often assign higher value to their autonomy and ability to make
   decisions independently and, thus, prefer individual heating solutions even if those are more
   expensive than collective heating option. This is particularly noticeable in communities with mixed
   income levels, where service standard expectations are different.
 Adequate maintenance and proper operation of heating systems is essential for sustainability
   of investments in heating infrastructure. Operation and maintenance of heating systems requires
   specialized technical skills. Therefore, in order to ensure sustainability of investments, the
   Government should ensure that adequate financing is allocated to schools, so they could afford to


                                                 16
     further rely on appropriate technical specialists for operation and maintenance of boiler houses and
     related heating infrastructure.

7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower did not raise any issues. The Bank agrees with the Borrower’s assessments provided in
the letter from the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, dated October 5, 2011.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
The implementation completion report was reviewed by the coordinator of the UNDP/GEF project on
“Improving the Energy Efficiency of Urban Heating and Hot Water Supply in Armenia.? The key
comment was related to absence of discussion of greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions in the
implementation completion report. The comment was addressed in the section on project efficiency.




                                                   17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                        Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                            Percentage of
            Components                                 Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                                Appraisal
                                                          millions)
 A. Community and private sector
mobilization and development of an
enabling environment for effective        3.90               0.21                     5%
and safe provision of h eating
services
 B. Financing of heating and
                                         10.00               6.39                     64%
related infrastructure
 C. School Heating                        6.25               8.25                    132%
 D. Support for project
                                          0.80               1.69                    211%
implementation
 E. Project Preparation                   1.00               1.14                    114%


             Total Baseline Cost           21.95                17.68                81%4
Physical Contingencies
                                            0.00                  0.00                0.00
Price Contingencies
                                            0.00                 0.00                 0.00
               Total Project Costs         21.95                17.68
Front-end fee PPF                           -                    -                      -
Front-end fee IBRD                          -                    -                      -
       Total Financing Required            21.95                17.68                 81%




4
 Lower actual project cost is due to cancellation of USAID project, which was to complement the TA
component of the project.



                                                18
(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                           Type of        Estimate       Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing        (USD           (USD       Appraisal
                                                          millions)      millions)
 Borrower                                              2.05           2.27          111%
 International Development Association
                                                       15.00          14.97       99%
(IDA)
 Local Sources of Borrowing Country                    2.00           -           0%
 UN Development Program - GEF                          2.90           0.51        22%




                                               19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component A: Community and private sector mobilization and development of an enabling
environment for effective and safe provision of heating services. This component supported the
following key TA activities:
       Training of gas heater/boiler installation workers in urban areas outside of Yerevan to promote
increased use of safe gas-based heating solutions. The project supported training of over 400 people in
fifteen cities covering ten Marzes of the country to provide heater/boiler installation services. This
local capacity building increased availability of technical specialists for installation of heating
equipment, which contributed to increase of lending for individual (apartment heaters or boilers)
heating solutions in urban areas outside of Yerevan. Moreover, the project generated additional
demand for heating services by making available long-term funds to invest in heat supply systems and
providing capital grants to the poor, which contributed to the increase in the number of heating service
providers. Specifically, the number of business engaged in heat service provision increased from 20 in
2005 to 76 at project closure on June 30, 2011, significantly above the component outcome indicator
of 40.
       Preparation of gas safety standards and norms. This component supported development of key
gas safety regulations for safety of residential gas appliances, connection of gas appliances to the gas
network, safety and operation rules for main gas pipes and for the gas distribution network. Also, the
R2E2 Fund translated into Armenian the following 17 European residential gas safety standards,
which are being gradually adopted by the Government:

   1. BS EN 1266:2002:         Independent gas-fired convection heaters incorporating a fan to assist
       transportation of combustion air and/or flue gases;
   2. BS EN 50244:2000: Electrical Apparatus for the Detection of Combustible Gases in Domestic
       Premises. Guide on the Selection, Installation, Use and Maintenance;
   3. BS EN 50291:2001: Electrical Apparatus for the Detection of Carbon Monoxide in Domestic
       Premises-Test Methods and Performance Requirements;
   4. BS EN 125:1991: Flame Supervision Devices for Gas-Burning Appliances-Thermo-Electric
       Types;
   5. EN 1319:1998: Domestic gas-fired forced convection air heaters for space heating, with fan-
       assisted burners not exceeding a net heat input of 70 kW;
   6. BS EN 50194:2000: Electrical Apparatus for the Detection of Combustible Gases in Domestic
       Premises-Test Methods and Performance Requirements;
   7. CEN/TC 234 EN 1775:2006: Gas Supply - Gas Pipework for Buildings - Maximum Operating
       Pressure Less Than or Equal to 5 Bar - Functional Recommendations;
   8. EN 30-1-1: Domestic Cooking Appliances Burning Gas Fuel – Part 1-1: Safety-General;
   9. EN 26-1998: Gas-fired instantaneous water heaters for the production of domestic hot water,
       fitted with atmospheric burners;
   10. BS EN 298:2003: Automatic gas burner control systems for gas burners and gas burning
       appliances with or without fans;
   11. EN 7462:1991: Specification for electrical safety of domestic gas appliances;
   12. BS EN 1856-1:2003: Chimneys-Requirements for Metal Chimneys;
   13. BS EN 126:2004: Multifunctional controls for gas burning appliances;
   14. BS EN 161: 2002: Automatic shut-off valves for gas burners and gas appliances;



                                                  20
   15. EN 331:1998: Manually operated ball valves and closed bottom taper plug valves for gas
       installations in buildings;
   16. BS EN 1856-2:2003: Metal chimney requirements;
   17. EN 30-1-1: Domestic Cooking Appliances Burning Gas Fuel – Part 1-1: Safety-General

The Government established a Commission for Introduction of Gas Safety Standards under the
Ministry of Economy, which includes representatives from various stakeholder ministries and agencies
that oversee the adoption of harmonized gas safety standards with the EU. As of project closing date,
total of five European EN standards were adopted.
        General publications on gas safety issues. To increase the consumer awareness of gas safety
issues the project supported development and wide dissemination (over 5,000 copies disseminated) of
a user-friendly guides on the usage of natural gas for heating purposes in residential apartments and
operation of new boilers installed in the urban schools. The R2E2 Fund has prepared a guide on how
to operate mid-size boiler houses. The monitoring of the schools where the R2E2 Fund rehabilitated
heating systems indicated the need for such a guide, which would detail how to safely and optimally
operate boiler houses. The guide was useful not only for schools, but also for hospitals, kindergartens
and even industrial and other users operating mid-size boilers. The electronic copy of the guide was
posted on the R2E2 Fund web-site to promote public accessibility and over 1,000 printed copies were
distributed to mid-size boiler house operators. The R2E2 Fund received a very positive feedback on
both of the guides from residential gas consumers and operators of boiler houses.
        Broad information campaigns and public education programs to increase awareness about the
benefits of new and safe heating technologies. In order to increase the awareness about the benefits of
new clean and safe heating technologies, the project supported implementation of broad information
campaigns and public education programs. In particular, the project supported organization of three
heating exhibitions presenting available safe and clean heating equipment and technologies.
Additionally, the project assisted in implementation of extensive PR campaign in all regions of the
country aimed at general public. This contributed to increased awareness of households about the new
heating technologies, availability of sub-loans to finance heating infrastructure, availability of capital
grants for a heater and/or connection to the gas service as well as eligibility criteria and application
procedures and the guides on usage of natural gas for heating purposes.

The PR campaign was implemented through in-person meetings organized in regional urban centers
and media outlets, including TV, radio and publications. The PR campaign included coverage on 12
national television channels with the total broadcasting time of 149 minutes. Additionally, 20 regional
television channels broadcasted around 283 minutes of programs dedicated to benefits of modern
heating technologies, including residential gas safety issues. The awareness raising about the benefits
of modern heating technologies was also pursued through a number of radio broadcasts with total air-
time of 30 minutes.

The awareness raising was also pursued through print media. In particular, a total of 28,000 copies of
12 various booklets, guides and brochures were published and distributed. Specifically, this
component supported development and wide dissemination (over 5,000 copies disseminated) of a user-
friendly guide on the usage of natural gas for heating purposes in residential apartments. The R2E2
Fund prepared a guide on how to operate mid-size boiler houses. The monitoring of the schools, where
the R2E2 Fund rehabilitated heating systems, indicated the need for such a guide, which would detail
how to safely and optimally operate boiler houses. The guide was useful not only for schools, but also


                                                   21
for hospitals, kindergartens and even industrial and other users operating mid-size boilers. The
electronic copy of the guide was posted on the R2E2 Fund web-site to promote public accessibility
and over 1,000 printed copies were distributed to mid-size boiler house operators. The R2E2 Fund
received positive feedback on both of the guides from residential gas consumers and operators of
boiler houses.

Under the UNDP/GEF project comprehensive support on legal, technical, and financial issues was
provided to communities, HOAs and emerging new heat service providers. In particular, the support
included, but was not limited to the below activities:
  Assistance to condominiums and other management bodies of the multi-apartment buildings
    through Advisory Center, which provided advice on technical, financial, institutional and legal
    matters related to heating, organized awareness raising activities, surveys and meetings.
  Assistance to local municipalities to manage heat supply assets and improve both their service
    quality and operational efficiency by implementation of energy efficiency measures in Spitak,
    Aparan, Yerevan cities. Those measures primarily included reconstruction of boiler houses, gas
    supply systems and improvement of the buildings’ thermal insulation.
  Drafting of the RA Government Decision, which created favorable conditions for Yerevan city
    Avan district cogeneration-based heat supply project and resulted in connection of 30 buildings to
    the district heating system; introduction of solar hot water systems; energy audit and adjustment of
    the 50 operating boiler houses, etc.
  Assistance to improvement of legal and regulatory framework for heating sector, including
    drafting of the concept of the RA Law on “Heat Supply?, development of recommendations on
    revision of natural gas tariff methodology, adaptation of EE related (EN and ISO) standards and
    codes, development of legal framework for introduction of efficiency labeling for household
    appliances, development of methodology for calculation of hazardous emissions from up to 5.8
    MW boiler, etc.

Component B: Financing of heating and related building infrastructure. This component
provided financing for heating infrastructure of multi-apartment residential buildings through lending
to project beneficiaries and capital grants to the poor.

Lending to project beneficiaries. The PFIs under the project provided 7,225 sub-loans to residents of
multi-apartment buildings. The total value of sub-loans was US$ 9.04 million, including co-financing
by PFIs and revolving funds, and the repayment rate was 99 percent, compared to the target result
indicators of US$ 4.2 million and 95 percent respectively. The sub-loans were provided for installation
of individual heaters, boilers and related infrastructure, primarily radiators. The average size of the
sub-loans was US$ 1,259.

The financing of heating infrastructure was quickly replicated by other local commercial financial
institutions. In 2008, the R2E2 Fund conducted a market study to clarify the terms and procedures for
financing of individual heating solutions by non-participating financial institutions.

The study showed that significant positive changes had taken place. Specifically, the maturities of
lending for heating investments increased, lending procedures were significantly simplified and
collateral requirements were eased. This confirmed that the lending for individual gas boilers (and
related installations) in Yerevan became a standard consumer lending product for a number of


                                                  22
financial institutions, i.e. it is no longer viewed as a high risk investment and, moreover, the financial
institutions finance individual gas boiler solutions from their own sources or stand ready to finance
these solutions from their own sources if the funds under the project were no longer available.

The results of the study also indicated that the share of lending for individual gas heater solutions
country-wide as well as for individual gas boiler solutions outside of Yerevan was low. The sub-loan
scheme was demand-driven and there was no prescribed geographical targeting of beneficiaries.
Therefore, the R2E2 Fund directed the remaining (non-allocated) funds under this component of the
project for financing individual gas heaters in all urban areas and for individual gas boiler solutions in
urban areas outside Yerevan. This resulted in over 2,500 sub-loans provided in urban areas outside of
Yerevan. The heater/boiler installation and maintenance trainings provided to technical workers in
urban areas outside of Yerevan substantially contributed to expansion of regional urban lending for
individual heating solutions.

This component of the project also envisaged financing for local heating solutions (e.g. boiler house
supplying heat to a building or a number of buildings). However, the local heating solutions did not
materialize primarily due to: (a) preference of the residents for individual heating solutions, which
allows them to be billed on individual rather than communal basis as well as exercise better control
over the expenditures and the comfort level; (b) poor institutional capacity of HOAs and weak
organizational skills when dealing with heat service providers

Capital grants to the poor. This component was aimed at improving the access to gas and heating
services for poor households in urban multi-apartment buildings. This component provided OBA
subsidies in the form of capital grants for the eligible poor households in Armenia for gas
supply/heating. A total of 8,265 urban poor households in 44 cities of the country received capital
grants and have verified gas-based heating in their apartments, compared to this component’s revised
result indicator of 8,000.

The grant scheme was well targeted and the eligibility criteria were explicit. Originally, the urban poor
enrolled in the PFBP and having poverty score of 38.01 or above (daily income of US$ 1.0 or less)
were eligible to participate in the scheme. After the demand for capital grants from the poorest
households residing in multi-apartment buildings was met, the eligibility score was revised to include
the urban poor with score of 34.01 and above (daily income of less than US$ 1.1). In order to
participate in the scheme, the eligible households were requested to secure US$ 20 co-financing for
connection to the gas service and/or US$ 40 – for getting a safe gas-based heater. The co-financing
was mostly paid by the poor themselves or the local self-governance bodies. The co-financing was an
effective means of raising the sense of ownership among the potential beneficiaries.

The “capital grants to the poor? sub-component of the project was novel to Armenia. It pioneered the
output-based aid approach in Armenia. Specifically, the disbursements of OBA subsidies were tied to
outputs in a way that created incentives for the gas company to ensure timely completion of the
installation of heaters and gas connections and early delivery of gas supply. Under the OBA scheme,
20 percent of the contract amount was paid in advance when the gas company signed a contract with
the service contractors, 70 percent upon independent verification of service delivery by the gas
company, and 10 percent after 12 months of satisfactory service delivery.



                                                   23
Component C: School heating. This component financed on grant basis rehabilitation of gas-based
heating systems and some basic insulation for urban schools. The outputs under this component
substantially exceeded both the original (100 schools) and revised (117) results indicators. Heating
systems of 120 urban schools in 30 cities of Armenia were rehabilitated under this component of the
project, including 7 special schools for children with disabilities. The actual average investment cost
per student was US$ 100, compared to the planned level of US$ 120. The savings were due to strong
competition among bidders.

The rehabilitation works primarily included installation of a new boiler, rehabilitation/construction of
new boiler house, replacement of old radiators and changing of internal and external pipes for heat
supply. In special schools, toilets and shower rooms were also rehabilitated to allow for basic comfort
for disabled children, who also live in the school. In 11 schools rehabilitated under the project before
2010/2011 heating season, the works also included basic energy efficiency measures, such as
insulation of walls, basement and attic, replacement of windows and reduction of glazing area, while
preserving day-light penetration standards. The results of energy consumption monitoring suggest that
energy bill of those buildings reduced on average by around 30-40 percent.

Component D: Support for project implementation. This component financed primarily goods,
works and logistical support to the R2E2 to implement and supervise the project, including operating
costs. The expenses included staff salaries, costs of audits, office equipment and furniture,
transportation and communication costs, and staff training.

Component E: Project preparation. This component was identical to the PPF activities that were
implemented to prepare the project. The PPF supported the following key project preparation
activities:
 Ten local heating pilot projects. Seven pilot projects involved establishment of local heating
    system, one involved installation of individual boilers in two apartments and one included repair of
    internal heat network of apartments and installation of metering system for connection to Yerevan
    CHP. Four of these pilot projects became operational by 2003-04 heating season while the
    remaining became operational by 2004-05 heating season. Out of eight pilot projects involving
    establishment of local heating system for a building or block of buildings five are operating. The
    residents of the beneficiary buildings were generally satisfied with the quality of heating, however,
    the collections for recurrent heat costs and interest and principal repayments under the sub-loans
    varied greatly from pilot to pilot. Generally, the payment discipline was better for pilot projects
    implemented by private heat suppliers than for pilot projects implemented by the HOAs. Three
    pilots involving establishment of local heating system were not operating owing to organizational
    difficulties; this led to the disappointment of some of the apartment residents who have opted for
    individual heating solutions rendering the local heating system commercially non-viable. The pilot
    that involved provision of heating from the CHP did not operate either, owing to the inability of
    Yerevan CHP to ensure continuous supply of heat (Yerevan CHP mainly operates to supply steam
    to a large chemical plant, which has been mainly non-operational over the past few years).
 Preparation of the Operations Manual and charter of the R2E2 Fund.




                                                   24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The post-completion economic and financial cost-benefit analysis was conducted for each major
component of the project – lending to project beneficiaries, school heating and capital grants to the
poor. The project benefits and costs were estimated for each component separately due to different
nature of the costs and benefits associated with each of the components. The economic and financial
analysis was based on the actual outputs of each component, the actual costs during the project
implementation and revised projection of costs and benefits. The economic costs and benefits were
calculated exclusive of taxes and subsidies and the assessment of the financial costs and benefits was
done inclusive of taxes. See below the table on assumptions used for post-completion economic and
financial appraisal.

Table 1: Key assumption of economic and financial appraisal
 Average outside temperature during heating season          -2oC
 Average indoor temperature during heating season           18oC
 Length of heating season                                   120 days
 Average nominal electricity tariff in 2011 (VAT inclusive) AMD 27/kWh
 Estimated long-run cost of electricity in winter           AMD 37/kWh
 End-user gas tariff for small consumers in 2011 (<10,000 AMD 132/m3
 m3/month)5
 End-user gas tariff for large consumers in 2011 (>10,000 AMD 243/m3
 m3/month)
 Average heating system investment cost per apartment       US$ 1259
 Losses in heating system                                   7%
 Average individual gas boiler efficiency                   90%
 Average individual gas heater efficiency                    85%
 VAT rate                                                   20%
 Discount rate                                              10%

Lending to project beneficiaries. As of June 1, 2011, the IDA-funded US$ 4.2 million lending for
heating solutions leveraged US$ 4 million from the PFIs and an estimated US$ 4.5 million from other
financial institutions, following the strong demonstration effect of earlier project funded investments
in heating infrastructure that confirmed financial viability of heating project. Overall, the total amount
of financing expected to be mobilized through both R2E2 Fund financing provided and the leveraging
impact is estimated to reach at least US$ 15 million by 2015, yielding a leveraging ratio of 3.3,
compared to the appraisal stage estimate of 2.8.

The main quantifiable economic benefit from those investments is the cost saving due to switching
from electricity to gas-based heating. At completion stage, those investments were estimated to have


5
 The gas tariff used in the analysis does not include the impact of 1-year subsidy provided to poor households since it will
not impact the long-term viability of gas-based heating.




                                                            25
an NPV of US$ 17.0 million and an EIRR of 29 percent, compared to appraisal stage NPV of
US$ 19.2 million, EIRR of 34 percent. The decrease in economic viability of investments was due to
30 percent increase of heating equipment prices and 70 percent increase of gas costs for small
consumers (< 10,000 m3/month). However, it should be noted that both the appraisal and completion
stage EIRRs underestimate the true economic returns to the residents of multi-apartment buildings and
society at large since they do not include the non-monetary benefits of improved health and comfort,
reduced incidences of gas poisonings and explosions, in-door air pollution, reduction of GHG
emissions and deforestation.

Table 2: Economic viability of individual heating solutions at appraisal and completion
                             Appraisal stage              Completion stage
NPV                          US$ 19.2                     US$ 17.0
EIRR                         34%                          29%

The main financial benefit from investments in individual heating solutions is the financial cost saving
due to switching from electricity to gas-based heating. The Table 3 below summarizes the key
financial efficiency indicators at appraisal and completion stages of the project.

Table 3: Financial viability of individual heating solutions at appraisal and completion
                              Appraisal stage               Completion stage
NPV                                                         US$ 91
FIRR                           22%                          10.5%
Simple payback period         < 4 years                     10 years

The deterioration of financial viability of this component is ascribed to 30 percent increase of
individual boiler/heater prices and relatively higher increase of gas tariff. Specifically, the end-user gas
tariff increased by around 123 percent during the project implementation, increasing from AMD
59,000/tcm (around US$ 118/tcm) for small consumers (<10,000 m3/month) in 2005 to AMD
132,000/tcm (around US$ 366/tcm) in 2010. Meanwhile, during the project implementation the
electricity tariff recorded relatively smaller increase of around 24 percent, rising from an average of
AMD 21.7 (around US$ 0.043/kWh) in 2005 to an average of AMD 27.5 (around US$ 0.076/kWh) in
2010.

School heating. The key quantifiable economic benefit of the school heating component of the project
was the reduction of heating expenditures of urban schools due to cost savings of switching from
electricity to gas and reduction of energy consumption resulting from installation of more efficient
heating systems and implementation of some energy efficiency measures in some of the schools. The
completion stage NPV of the economic benefits from rehabilitation of heating systems of 120 schools
was estimated at US$ 14.1 million with an EIRR of 53 percent, compared to appraisal stage NPV of
US$ 6.8 million and EIRR of 26 percent.




                                                    26
Table 4: Economic viability of school heating system rehabilitation at appraisal and completion
                             Appraisal stage             Completion stage
NPV                          US$ 6.8 million             US$ 14.1 million
EIRR                         26%                         53%

Improvement of economic viability was due to: (a) higher estimated long-run marginal cost of
electricity supply in winter since winter power demand is predominantly met through thermal
generation, dependent on substantially more expensive natural gas; specifically, the economic cost of
gas for thermal generation almost tripled; (b) implementation of energy efficiency measures in 13
schools.

The project also generated other important economic benefits that were not quantified. Those include
improvement of the building stock, improved comfort levels, reduced air pollution, and related
improvement of health of students, and better quality of education.

Capital grants to the poor. The analysis of financial viability for this component is based on cost
effectiveness criteria. The total investment cost per poor household for installation of a heater and
connection to the gas service was US$ 588, including the VAT. The poor households received capital
grants to finance the investment and thus their heating bills consisted of the variable cost for heating.
For a poor family with a gas-based heater, the recurrent cost of heating for 120 days and to 14-16˚C,
was an average of US$ 40. The urban poor did not heat their apartments to adequate comfort level due
to significant increase of gas prices. If electricity or firewood were used to heat the apartments to the
same comfort level, then it would have cost US$ 58 and US$ 43 respectively. However, it should be
noted that gas-based heating remains the least-cost heating option based on recurrent costs; therefore
sustainability of investments will not be jeopardized. Moreover,, it should be noted that access to clean
and safe energy, has significant non-monetary benefits, which are hard to quantify, e.g. improved
health and enhanced living standards of the poor.




                                                   27
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
           Names                          Title                    Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
                          Program Coordinator (Task Team
Gevorg Sargsyan                                                   SEGEN Program team lead
                          Leader)
Ani Balabanyan            Operations Officer                      CFPTP   Operational support
Bjorn Hamso               Sr. Energy Economist                    SASDE   Technical inputs
Rohit Mehta               Sr. Finance Officer                       -     Project design
Junko Funahashi           Sr. Counsel                             LEGEN   Legal
Leonid Vanian             Sr. Procurement Specialist                -     Procurement
Inesis Kiskis             Sr. Environmental Specialist              -     Environmental
Julian Lampietti          Lead Program Coordinator                MNSAR   Economic/Social
Arman Vatyan              Sr. Financial Management Specialist     ECSO3   FMS
Surekha Jaddoo            Operations Analyst                      ECSS2   Operational support
Anke Mayer                Consultant (Energy Economist)             -     Project design
Carlo Seigni              Lead Financial Officer                   CMD    Project design
                          Sr. Private Sector Development
Ramin Shojai                                                        -     Project design
                          Specialist
Supervision/ICR
                                                                          Task management
Ani Balabanyan            Operations Officer (Task Team Leader)   CFPTP
                                                                          and operations
Alexander Astvatsatryan   Procurement Officer                     ECSO2   Procurement
                                                                          Economic and
Artur Kochnakyan          Energy Economist                        ECSS2   financial
                                                                          analysis/operations
Wolfhart Pohl             Sr. Environmental Spec.                 ECSS3   Environmental
Gevorg Sargsyan           Program Coordinator                     SEGEN   Program team lead
Arman Vatyan              Sr. Financial Management Specialist     ECSO3   FMS
Garik Sergeyan            Financial Management Consultant         ECSO3   FMS
Anarkan Akerova           Counsel                                 LEGEN   Legal




                                           28
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands (including travel
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                                and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                            195.00
  FY99                                                              0.00
  FY00                                                            269.76
  FY01                                                              0.00
  FY02                                                              0.00
  FY03                                                         46,265.42
  FY04                                                         72,080.69
  FY05                                                         74,541.11
  FY06                                                          9,771.42
  FY07                                                              0.00
                          Total:                              203,123.40
Supervision/ICR
  FY98                                                              0.00
  FY99                                                              0.00
  FY00                                                              0.00
  FY01                                                              0.00
  FY02                                                              0.00
  FY03                                                              0.00
  FY04                                                              0.00
  FY05                                                              0.00
  FY06                                                         49,445.15
  FY07                                                         39,617.35
 FY08                                                          43,755.56
 FY09                                                          57,435.37
 FY10                                                          50,652.82
 FY11                                                          36,158.62
 FY12                                                               0.00
                          Total:                              277,064.87




                                       29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Summarized below are the key findings of the 2010/2011 heating season monitoring survey, which
included historical analysis/comparison of key project monitoring indicators. The survey was
conducted by an independent consultant, an NGO based on a representative sample of residents of
multi-apartment buildings in all urban areas of Armenia.

   During last several years, increasing number of households switched from other fuel sources to
    rely on natural gas for heating. Specifically, the share of gas-based heating increased from 13.1
    percent in 2003/2004 heating season to 69.8 percent in 2010/2011 heating season.

    Figure 1: Heating fuel types




   The results of recent years’ monitoring surveys show that year by year more households prefer
    clean, efficient and safe heating technologies. Specifically, the use of hand-made gas
    heaters/stoves and wood furnaces reduced from 45.1 percent in 2003/2004 heating season to 6.8
    percent in 2010/2011 heating season.




                                                30
    Figure 2: Heating devices




   Manufactured gas heaters were preferred also for supply of hot water, thus replacing non-
    manufactured electric immersion heaters and firewood furnaces. In 2003/2004 heating season,
    gas-based water heaters and individual heating boilers accounted for 12.9 percent of equipment
    used for supply of hot water, whereas in 2010/2011 heating season - for 53.1 percent.

   During recent several years, in parallel with switch towards natural gas, the heating comfort levels
    improved. The average temperature in apartments increased from 15.6 C˚ in 2004/2005 heating
    season to 17.7 C˚ in 2010/2011 heating season.

    Figure 3: Average indoor temperature




                                                  31
   The average heating expenditure for households using gas-based heating substantially increased.
    Specifically, the average gas-based heating expenditures increased from AMD 15,150 (around
    US$ 30 at average annual 2005 exchange rate) in winter of 2005/2006 to AMD 27,200 (around
    US$ 75 at average annual 2010 exchange rate) in winter of 2010/2011. This was driven by both
    gas tariff increase and increase in the comfort level.

   The share of households that entirely heated their apartments increased from 50.2 percent in
    2004/2005 heating season to 62.8 percent in 2010/2011 heating season.

     Figure 4: % of heated households




   Population awareness on loans and capital grants provided for improvement of heating conditions
    increased. In 2010/2011 heating season, about 56.5 percent of households were aware of those
    loans compared to 23.5 percent in 2006/2007 heating season.




                                                32
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

During the project implementation several workshops were held with key stakeholders to discuss and
solicit feedback on various heating sub-sector level and other project related issues, including:

 Two round-table discussions on obstacles to financing of heating investments with participation of
  heat service providers, heating equipment suppliers and HOAs,

 Two round-table discussions on gas appliance safety issues in multi-apartment buildings. The
  workshops were held on Dec 2, 2008 in Yerevan and on Dec 17, 2008 in the city of Aparan.

 Round-table discussion on capacity building and development of the market for thermal and
  technical adjustment services for boiler houses, which supply public and residential buildings in
  Armenia. The key focus of the round-table was on analysis of problems and challenges of the above
  sector in Armenia and discussion of relevant international experience. The workshop was held on
  March 12, 2009.

 Round-table discussion with PFIs and heating equipment suppliers on obstacles to increased
  penetration of safe and clean heating technologies in regions and lack of demand for heating sub-
  loans. The round-table was held on April 2009 in Yerevan.




                                                33
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower did not have any comments on the draft ICR as stated in the letter from the Ministry of
Energy and Natural Resources, dated October 5, 2011.




                                                34
35
Presented below is the overview of the key sections of the Borrower’s ICR.


1   Achievements under the project
Component A (US$ 1.0 million): Development of enabling environment for effective and safe
provision of heating services: The following regulations, safety norms and standards were developed
and/or adopted:

       Government Decree N 1458 on “Safety Requirements for Gas Devices, Used for Domestic
        Purposes.? Became effective on Mat 8, 2007.
       Government Decree N 784 on “The Connections of Gas Appliances Used for Domestic
        Purposes, to the Separation Point and Flue and Air Ways in Operating and Newly Constructed
        Apartment Buildings.? Became effective on February 6, 2009.
       16 EN standards and 1 EU Directive developed and translated and in approval process.
       2 gas appliance safety technical regulations developed and translated.
       Comprehensive regulation on gas safety.
The R2E2 Fund consultants have developed a comprehensive gas safety regulation for the residential
sector. The Government adopted a number of gas safety regulations for residential gas appliances,
connection of gas appliances, safety and operation rules for the main gas pipes and for the gas
distribution network. As the adopted regulations are being put into use, certain regulatory gaps and
inconsistencies between regulations emerge some of which have been already addressed by the
MENR. The MENR uses the comprehensive gas safety regulation in filling the remaining gaps and
plans eventually to turn the comprehensive regulation to a user-friendly guide that will detail the
requirements and application of gas safety regulations.

Also, the R2E2 Fund has arranged the translation of sixteen European EN residential gas safety
standards. The Government adopted a staged approach in initiating the adoption of EN standards so as
to ensure that the market gradually gets ready for these standards. The Government has set up a Gas
Safety Standards Introduction Commission with representatives from various stakeholder ministries
and agencies that oversee the adoption of harmonized gas safety standards with the EU.

The HOAs and private businesses received technical assistance from the advisory centre and the R2E2
Fund, in particular, consultancies were received by apartment owners, condominiums, private heating
providing companies, local administrative bodies and other companies. Surveys and explanatory work
were conducted with apartment owners in Avan district and Spitak city. Feasibility and pre-feasibility
studies were conducted, heat plans were developed, events, seminars, workshops, and TV program
were organized. The detailed table with certain number of participants and events is presented in
Appendix A.

The R2E2 Fund worked on capacity building in the regions, which involved, in cooperation with the
suppliers of heating equipment, training of people to install heating equipment These trainings were


                                                  36
initiated based on the feedback of the financial institutions and heating equipment suppliers, which
sited lack of installation workers as a major bottleneck for the penetration of safe gas based heating
equipment in the urban areas other than Yerevan. These local capacity building efforts also helped
with the stimulation of local employment.

Furthermore, the R2E2 Fund prepared a guide on how to operate mid-size boiler houses. The
monitoring of the schools where the R2E2 Fund rehabilitated heating systems indicated the need for
such a guide, which would detail how to safely and optimally operate boiler houses. The guide would
be useful not only for schools but also for hospitals, kindergartens and even industrial and other users
using mid-size boilers for heating purposes.

Component B (US$ 7.2 million): Investment financing for heating of residential buildings was
supported under two subcomponents:

B.1 Lending to project beneficiaries (US$ 4.2 million)
Under this sub-component, 7,225 sub-loans for a total amount of US$ 9.04 million were provided for
heaters and boilers to residents of urban multi-apartment buildings, i.e. it financed some of the sub-
loans from revolving and its own funds. The average size of the sub-loan was US$ 1,260. The average
maturity of sub-loans was 3 years and the average interest rate was 22 percent. The repayment rate for
the sub-loan was almost 100 percent. The project exceeded the target as it was planning that the
aggregate amount of investments would be US$ 4.2 million.

B.2 Capital grants to the poor (US$ 3.0 million)
Eligible households were identified based on their participation in the existing PFBP. Initially it was
estimated that roughly 10,000 poor households will be funded under this component. The R2E2 Fund
received a total of 13,863 applications from the urban poor. The total number of applications approved
by the Board of Trustees of the R2E2 Fund was 10,308. The mandatory co-financing was received
from 9,165 urban poor. The heater installation and gas connection works are complete in 8,265
apartments. A total of 8,265 urban poor households have verified gas-based heating in their
apartments, compared to this component’s revised result indicator of 8,000.

Component C: School heating (US$ 5.0 million)

Initially it was planned that about 100 urban schools will benefit from the installation and
rehabilitation of heating systems within the scope of this component. Actual implementation exceeded
the original project target with the total number of schools rehabilitated reaching 120. The results of
monitoring by the R2E2 Fund experts suggested that the rehabilitation of the heating systems of
mentioned schools resulted in tangible benefits with indoor temperature in schools significantly
increasing (average indoor temperature was 18oC) and idle school eliminated.

Component D: Support for project implementation (US$ 0.8 million): The funds under this component
were used for purchasing equipment for the R2E2 Fund, salaries, consultancy including audit,
trainings, other operational expenses (e.g. banking, communication, transportation).




                                                  37
Component E: Project preparation ((US$ 1.0 million): As part of the Urban Heating Project, 10
heating pilot projects were implemented in the 2003/04 and 2004/05 heating seasons with more than
550 households participating. Those projects were financed under the Project Preparation Advance.
The objectives of the pilots were to test various technical options and commercial, contractual and
financial arrangements, mobilize the private sector to provide heat services, and demonstrate
advantages of collective actions. Results from the pilot projects, which were all carried out in multi-
apartment buildings in Yerevan, were reported and incorporated in PAD of UHP.

2   Implementation Issues
The R2E2 Fund faced a number of challenges during the project implementation. The challenges were
mainly related to the “capital grants to the poor? sub-component and school heating component.

In regard to the “capital grants to the poor? sub-component, the problem related to public awareness
about the scheme during the first months of the project. To that end, the R2E2 Fund organized large
awareness campaign through the central television channels and radio stations, local television
channels, and newspapers. Fliers, booklets, leaflets and application forms were distributed through the
local administration and regional centers of social services, etc. The R2E2 Fund organized meetings
with poor families in each city in order to introduce the opportunity to receive assistance and explain
procedures. The R2E2 Fund also relied on direct mailing services to send letters to the households
with eligible scores under the PFBP. This helped to increase the number of applications for the capital
grants.

Within the scope of the same sub-component, another challenge related to exchange rate fluctuation
that affected the project cost per household. Initially planned per connection cost was USD 450.
Taking into account that all payment were made in local currency the actual cost of the project became
close to USD 580 due to 35 percent appreciation of the AMD relative to US$. Therefore, the number
of beneficiaries was decreased. However, together with GPOBA grant and co-financing by the
households and municipalities, the project supported over 8,000 beneficiaries.

Another challenge faced by R2E2 Fund was the increase of gas tariff that had an impact on interest of
households to apply for assistance despite the fact that natural gas still remains the most affordable
heating option based on recurrent costs. In order to mitigate the impact of tariff increase on vulnerable
groups, in March 2011, the Government introduced a one-year gas tariff subsidy for the elgible poor.

The OBA scheme was novel to Armenia. The monopoly gas company and the contractors it procured
to connect the apartments of the eligible poor to the gas network and install gas heaters were
unfamiliar with the output-based approach of disbursing funds, which initially caused some delays in
the procurement process. Moreover, at early stages of implementation, the procurement methods
allowed under the OBA approach did not provide enough flexibility given the demand-driven nature
of the scheme, changes in the market conditions and institutional framework of the sector. In particular,
direct contracting was not initially allowed, which delayed the procurement of gas connection works
after the market structure had changed, whereby only the existing monopoly gas company was
providing gas connection services. Therefore, it was agreed with the Bank that single-source selection
would be allowed to expedite connection of the beneficiaries to the gas network.




                                                   38
3     Monitoring and evaluation
The overall responsibility for monitoring of the project rested with the R2E2 Fund and the BOT. In
addition to everyday supervision over the project activities, the R2E2 Fund conducted survey to
monitor and evaluate the project results and outcomes by hiring an independent NGO. The R2E2
Fund prepared reports and together with other information regarding project issues provided them
periodically (quarterly and annually) to the BOT and to the World Bank.

4     Project management

The outline for each of the project management elements is listed below:

4.1    Scope and management

Overall, the project design was sound and did not require any significant changes to the scope or
implementation arrangements to successfully complete implementation of the project.. There was only
a need for two project closing date extensions and reallocation of credit proceeds to complete
rehabilitation of a number of additional urban schools.

The example of scope change is the reallocation and closing date extension.

First reallocation of credit proceeds and project closing date extension: The credit proceeds were
reallocated from “capital grants to the poor? sub-component to “school heating? component. Given the
decreasing number of applications from the urban poor, which was most likely due to increasing gas
prices, the Government decided to reallocate the funds to allow for rehabilitation of a number of
additional urban schools. In order to complete the rehabilitation of the additional urban schools, the
Government requested the Bank to also extend the project closing date from June 30, 2010 to
December 31, 2010.

Second closing date extension: The Government requested another extension of the project closing
date to use the savings under the school heating component to rehabilitate the heating systems of two
additional schools. The closing date was extended from December 31, 2010 till June 1, 2011.

4.2    Time management

There were some challenges with planning of procurements under the “capital grants to the poor? sub-
component of the project. This was due to the demand-driven nature of the subsidy scheme.
Specifically, it it was difficult to project the number of applications from the urban poor and plan the
procurements accordingly because it was not difficult to predict the number of applicants from each
urban area, the time when the co-financing was made and the estimated approval of the application by
the BOT. Considering the above, there were amendments made to the existing contracts, which
increased the administrative burden of the R2E2 Fund. Even during performance of design or
installation works, it was hard to specify contract periods, starting and completion date for each
apartment, since they were spread over the country. Additionally, verification of gas connections by
the engineers of the R2E2 Fund was also time-consuming given the wide geographic distribution of
beneficiaries.


                                                  39
4.3   Cost management

At project preparation the R2E2 Fund team estimated that the prices for heaters and gas pipes, required
for connection of the urban poor to the gas network, would be lower than prevailing market averages
due to bulk purchases.. The initial project cost estimate per apartment was US$450. However, the
actual average cost per apartment was about US$632, including co-financing. There were two reasons
for this. First, the exchange rate of AMD appreciated relative to US$ by around 35 percent. This
resulted in substantial increase in US$ denominated costs. Second, there was no interest frome foreign
companies to participate in the tenders given the size of the contracts and wide geographic dispersion
of beneficiaries throughout Armenia. So the price of the heaters and installation was not at the level
anticipated even for contracts above US$1 million.

There were substantial cost savings under the school heating component. This was primarily due to
strong competition for heater system rehabilitation works. The threshold cost-effectiveness criteria for
the schools to be eligible for heating system rehabilitation were set at US$ 120 per student. However,
the actual was around US$ 100.

4.4   Quality management

The project design was very conducive for assuring the quality of works and service delivery. In
particular, the project design and implementation assured quality of equipment and installation works.
The technical specifications of heaters and boilers were agreed with the Bank, and only efficient, safe,
environmentally friendly equipment compliant with Armenian and EU standards could be supplied
and installed.

For the “capital grants to the poor? sub-component, the R2E2 Fund conducted independent
verification of service delivery, i.e. to ensure that the installed heaters were connected to the gas
network and the meter was operational, the contract for gas supply was signed, and the gas was
flowing to the beneficiaries’ apartments. The payments to the contractors were made only after the
verification.

For the school heating component, the mechanism to assure the quality was established. Qualified
specialists were assigned to each school by the R2E2 Fund for regular monitoring of school heating
system rehabilitation works. Every 10 days (in some cases even more frequently) those specialists
visited schools to verify the quality of works. In accordance with the Government decree (626-N,
dated on May 8, 2003), a special committee was established to monitor the rehabilitation of heating
systems of schools. The R2E2 Fund paid for the rehabilitation works only after the above committee
formally accepted the works to ensure there were no deficiencies.

In addition to regular staff, the R2E2 Fund hired additional specialists for technical supervision of
heating system rehabilitation works at schools and verification of gas service delivery to the
apartments of urban poor.




                                                  40
5   Sustainability
The sustainability of the heating solutions depends on the ability of households to pay for the service.
Some poor households used electricity for heating with a much higher cost than gas. These households
witnessed a reduction in their heating bills through a switch to gas-based heating. Inevitably, some
poor households would face challenges in continuing to pay for gas-based heating given continuous
gas tariff increases. Given the above, the Government increased the level of welfare payments in the
PFBP and in March of 2011 introduced a one-year lifeline tariff for poor gas consumers. Moreover,
the gas company waived the required upfront AMD 40,000 deposit (around US$ 110) when
connecting to the gas network, which was later recovered by offsetting this amount against the
customer’s bill in the first year. Nevertheless, the results of the 2009/2010 and 2010/2011 heating
season monitoring surveys suggest that there was some reversal in the trend for penetration of safe and
clean heating technologies. Specifically, the share of gas-based heating in multi-apartment residential
buildings reduced from 72.5 percent in 2008/2009 season to 69.8 percent in 2010/2011 heating season.
Therefore, the Government should consider introducing a more sustainable mechanism of subsidies for
low-income customers to avoid the switch-back to hazardous and polluting heating fuels such as
firewood.

The critical factor affecting sustainability of investments in school heating systems is the proper
operation and maintenance of the rehabilitated heating systems. To that end, the schools need to ensure
they hire qualified technicians to operate the heating systems during the heating season and also
maintain it throughout the year. Additionally, the Government needs to ensure that regular trainings
are organized for operators of mid-size boiler houses to contribute to long-term sustainability of the
project outcomes.




                                                  41
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The comments received in an email (dated September 15, 2011) from the coordinator of the
UNDP/GEF project on “Improving the Energy Efficiency of Urban Heating and Hot Water Supply in
Armenia.? The comments related to description of outputs/achievements under the above project as
well as lack of discussion on GHG emission reduction benefits under the Bank-supported Urban
Heating Project. Both comments were addressed in this ICR.




                                              42
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   Project Appraisal Document
   Operational Manual
   Development Credit Agreement
   Project Restructuring Papers
   Implementation Status Reports
   Supervision Mission Aide-Memoires
   Mid-Term Review Aide-Memoire
   Borrower’s ICR
   Semi-Annual Progress Reports submitted to GPOBA
   Ani Balabanyan and Arthur Kochnakyan. “Output-based Aid in Armenia: Connecting Poor Urban
    Households to Gas Services.? GPOBA Note Number 23, January 2009.
   “Assessment of Heat Supply and Heating Options in Multi-Apartment Buildings in Armenia.?
    Analytical Report on the Sample Household Survey, 2005/2006 heating season.
   “Assessment of Heat Supply and Heating Options in Multi-Apartment Buildings in Armenia.?
    Analytical Report on the Sample Household Survey, 2008/2009 heating season.
   “Assessment of Heat Supply and Heating Options in Multi-Apartment Buildings in Armenia.?
    Analytical Report on the Sample Household Survey, 2010/2011 heating season.
   “The Other Renewable Resource: The Potential for Improving Energy Efficiency in Armenia.
    World Bank Report. July 2008.
    Comments on draft ICR from Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. Letter dated October 5,
     2011.
    Comments on draft ICR from UNDP/GEF coordinator of the project on “Improving the Energy
     Efficiency of Urban Heating and Hot Water Supply in Armenia.? Email dated September 15,
     2011.




                                               43
                         43°E                                                                             To T’bilisi                To T’bilisi                                                                                          46°E                                                   47°E
                                                        GEOR GI A                             44°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G E OR G IA
                                                                      To Borjomi

                                                                                   L e s s Tashir
                                                                                           Tashir
                                                                                            er C       Alaverdi                                                                                   To Gäncä
                                                                                                    auc                                                                                                                         Ku
                                                                                                        asu                                                                                                                          ra                                                Mingechevir
                 41°N                                                                       Stepanavan          s M                                                                                                  To Gäncä                                                          Reservoir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           41°N
                                                                                                                    ou
                                                                                                  LORRI                nt
                                                                             SHIRAK                                       ai                                                       Ijevan
                                                                                                                             n                                          s
                                                                                       Gyumri                           Vanadzor
                                                                                                                        Vanadzor                                            T AV U S H
                                                                                                                                                                              AV
                                                                       To
                                                                      Kars                                                                                   Dilijan


                                                                                                Artik
                                                                                                Artik                                                                                                    Artsvashen
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Artsvashen
                                                                                                                                                                                      Karmir
                                                                                                                                                                                      Karmir
                                                                                                        Aragats                                         Sevan                                                 To
                                                                      pa                                                                                                                                     Gäncä
                                                                 Ar                                     (4090 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ARMENIA
                                                                                                                                                   Hrazdan
                                                                                         A R A G AT S O T N




                                                                                                                            Hraz d a n

                                                                                                                                          KO
                                                                                                                                          KO
                                                                                                                                          KO
                                                                                                                                                                       Gavar               Lake
                                                                                                        Ashtarak
                                 T UR KEY                                                                                                                                                 Sevan




                                                                                                                                               T
                                                                                                                                               TA
                                                                                                                                               T
                                                                                                                                                                             GEGHARK’UNIK’




                                                                                                                                                   YK
                                                                                                                              YEREVAN
                                                                                                                              YEREVAN                                                                         Vardenis
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Vardenis




                                                                                                                                                    ’
                                             Aras
                                                                                     AV
                                                                               A R M AV I R                             YEREVAN
                                                                                                                        YEREVAN
                                                                                   Armavir
                                                                                   Armavir                                                                                                   Martuni
                                                                                                                                                                                             Martuni
                                                                                                                                                                                                            nge
                                                                                                                                                                                               ni      s Ra                                                                                                40°N
                 40°N
                                                                                                                                                                                      r     de
                                                                                                                             Artashat
                                                                                                                             Artashat
                                                                                                                                                                                   Va
                                                                                                                                              A R A R AT
                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                  VAY
                                                                                                                                                                                            VAY O T S ’
                                                                                                                            Ar



                                                                                                                                               Ararat
                                                                                                                            as


                           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                        Jermuk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Jermuk
                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                    DZOR
                           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                     Yegegnadzor
                                                                                                                                                                                             Yegegnadzor
                        43°E                                                                  44°E
                                                                                                                                                                                     Arpa                                                                        AZ E RB AIJ AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Vaik
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Vaik
                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                              Naxçivan                                                                    Angekhakot

                                 ARM E NI A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Goris       Qubadli




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Vo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         o tan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                         To Naxçivan
                                                                                                                                                                    A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                       ra




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          a
                                       SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                                         Qubadli
                                                                                                                                                                         s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ng
                                       PROVINCE (MARZ) CAPITALS                                                                                                                       A ZERBA IJA N                                              SYUNIK’




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ez
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ez
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ez
                                                                                                          I SLA MIC REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                     Kapan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ur
                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                       RIVERS                                                                   O F IRA N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ng
                                       MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                        0   10                20    30        40          50 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                       RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           39°N
SEPTEMBER 2004




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33364
                                       PROVINCE (MARZ) BOUNDARIES                                                       0                10             20              30 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To Füzili
                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                         Megri

                                                                                                                                                                   45°E                                                                   To Ordubad                                                    47°E
