                                                                                                                 97777
Armenia: Reforming Energy Sector                                                                          April 14, 2011




 Promoting safe and clean heating and increasing renewable energy
 generation in Armenia



Overview
Second generation energy reforms in Armenia focused on the use of safe, clean and
affordable heating, and renewable energy generation. IDA-supported reforms drove up the
share of urban households using safe and clean gas-based heating from 13 percent in 2005 to
71 percent in 2010. Gas-related explosions, poisonings and fires reduced four-fold. Privately-
owned renewable energy generation grew from 137 GWh to 417 GWh.


Challenge                                                 MULTIMEDIA
As of 2004, around 36 percent of residents of           Loading the player ...
multi-apartment buildings relied on wood,
household waste and other polluting fuels for
heating, which were detrimental for health and
the environment. The country had high incidence
of gas-use related fires, explosions and
poisonings due to the use of unsafe furnaces
and stoves. The modern heater and gas
connection costs were prohibitively high. Even
the middle-income families could not afford
buying modern heaters or boilers, and there was
no consumer lending available for it. Due to the
lack of appropriate heating, many schools either         MORE
did not function during the winter months or               Video:  When Heating Is No Longer the Issue:
classes were held in cold or polluted                      the Human Story
classrooms, reducing the quality of education              Slideshow:  Second generation energy reforms
and negatively affecting the students’ health. In
2004, Armenia’s estimated renewable energy
potential was around 740 MW. However, only a
small portion of it was utilized due to the lack of long-term           More Results
and affordable financing and other non-financial barriers,
including lack of publicly available information on the
renewable energy, absence of reliable estimates for the
potential of relevant technologies, and legal and regulatory
barriers.                                                               71%
                                                                        the share of households in
Approach                                                                multi-apartment buildings with
                                                                        safe gas-based heating
The success of the Energy program was due to a                          increased from 13% in 2005 to
                                                                        71% in 2010
comprehensive approach to remove key regulatory, legal and
information barriers, as well as to increase the engagement
of the private sector.
The Urban Heating Project , due to  its demand-driven
nature and application of best practice experience of financial
                                                                   119
                                                                   heating systems have been
intermediation, resulted in a new consumer lending product,        rehabilitated in 119 urban
which became a standard financial product. Sub-loans for           schools as of 2011, benefitting
                                                                   around 53,000 students and
the households and innovative output-based grants for the          3,000 teachers
urban poor helped with installation of safe and clean gas
heaters and/or connection to the gas network.
The Renewable Energy Project leveraged a US$ 7 million            MORE INFORMATION
non-sovereign loan from the European Bank of
Reconstruction and Development and US$ 3 million financing          Urban Heating Project
from a Diaspora organization. The project enabled the small         Renewable Energy Project
renewable project developers to access long-term and
                                                                    Renewable Energy GEF Project
affordable financing and confirmed the viability of lending for
small renewable projects. Several local financial institutions      Geofund 2: Armenia Geothermal
now provide such loans.                                             Project

The Energy Sector Issues Note looked into the generation            Output-based Aid in Armenia:
                                                                    Connecting Poor Urban
options for meeting the future electricity demand, generation
                                                                    Households to Gas Service
costs and energy security.

Results

       The share of households in multi-apartment buildings
       with safe gas-based heating increased from 13 percent in 2005 to 71 percent in 2010.
       Around 7,000 households took sub-loans to purchase individual heaters or boilers with
       repayments rates for sub-loans at nearly 100 percent. Over 8,000 urban poor received
       grants for individual gas heaters and/or connection to the gas network.

       As of 2011, due to the heating systems rehabilitation, average class temperature in 119
       urban schools reached 18 o C resulting in no idle classroom days during winter and
       benefitting around 53,000 students and 3,000 teachers. In 2003-2004, all of those
       schools had substantially lower classroom temperatures and several of them had more
       than 30 idle classroom days.

       The number of cases of poisonings, fires and explosions per 10,000 gas subscribers
       reduced from 37 in 2004 to 10.4 in 2010.

       The installed capacity of renewable sources connected to the power grid increased from
       47 MW in 2005 to 137 MW in 2010. Renewable generation increased from 137 GWh to
       417 GWh. 27 sub-loans were approved under the renewable energy project with 95
       percent repayment rate for the entire portfolio.

       The analysis of energy sector challenges and possible solutions informed the
       government energy sector lending under the Country Partnership Strategy for fiscal
       years 2009-2013. The analysis included: (a) an assessment of future electricity demand
       and resulting supply gap; (b) trade-off analysis of the electricity generation options
       available to Armenia based on the considerations of generation costs and energy
       security; (b) estimate of overall investment needs; (c) identification of energy supply
       reliability bottlenecks in transmission and distribution networks; and (d) recommendation
       on addressing the energy tariff affordability issues.

Bank Contribution
Under the Urban Heating Project , the Bank provided a US$ 15 million IDA credit and a US$
3 million grant from the Global Partnership for Output-based Aid (GPOBA) to increase the use
of safe, clean and affordable heating technologies in the country. Under the Renewable
Energy Project , an IDA credit of US$ 5 million and a GEF grant of US$ 3 million supported
financing of renewable investment projects and creation of enabling environment for
renewables. The Energy Sector Issues Note had a budget of US$ 40,000.
Partners
The UNDP/GEF provided technical assistance complementing the World Bank Urban Heating
Project and supplied funding for community and private sector mobilization activities as well as
supported removal of some legal obstacles for development of urban heating.
The Renewable Energy Project was co-financed by US$ 7 million from EBRD and US$ 3
million equity contribution from the Cafesjian Family Foundation, the owner of the financial
institution implementing the credit line component of the project. 

Moving Forward
Currently Armenia faces three principal challenges in meeting its energy sector objectives:
An emerging supply gap: Armenia will need at least  850 MW of new generating capacity as
old, under-maintained energy infrastructure is retired, and demand continues to grow steadily.
Maintaining energy security: Heavy reliance on imported fuels and the old and under-
maintained transmission and distribution assets put Armenia at risk of supply interruptions,
price fluctuations, and possible outages.
Maintaining affordable tariffs. Rising fuel prices and the need for new, more expensive
generating units make energy less affordable for low-income consumers. The World Bank
energy program supports the government in enhancing the reliability of the power supply by
improving the power transmission network back-bone infrastructure; and reducing power supply
gap and enhancing energy security by improving the utilization of the country’s energy
efficiency potential.

Beneficiaries
Urban Heating Project: Gas-based heating offers clean, efficient, and low-cost heating to
urban poor. "We used to burn wood before, but gas is so much cleaner and convenient. It's a
great improvement in our life and it has eased our daily problems ," explains Sara Badalyan, a
housewife residing in a small, one-room apartment in Masis town (Ararat region) with her
unemployed husband and 18-year-old daughter. As project beneficiaries, they have been using
gas-based heating since September 2009.
Renewable Energy Project:   “We have a small gardening firm. We thought that since we were
bringing in irrigation water; we could also build a hydropower station on that water flow ,” says
Marcos Gharibyan , owner and director of Goght-1 and Goght-2 micro cascade hydro-stations.
He has received a loan to make an investment in this sector. The company also constructed
10 kilometer-long power transmission line to connect the hydropower stations to the high-
voltage electric grid.
