                                                                                                           99837
Loading the player ...




Energy Reforms in Armenia: On the Way to Energy Security
Vigen Sargsyan, Communications Officer in the Armenia
Country Office, offers this story.
                                                                   Photo Gallery
Entrepreneurs like Marcos Gharibyan are fueling the growth
in renewable energy in Armenia by investing in small hydro-
power plants. Gharibyan took a risk and got a loan to invest in
two small hydro power stations. "We have a small gardening
firm. We thought that since we were bringing in irrigation
water, we could just as well build a hydropower station on that
water flow," Gharibyan explains.
                                                                   Second Generation Energy Reforms
After he built the station, Gharibyan took another leap of faith
and built a 10 kilometer long high voltage power line to
connect his stations so they can feed into the national power      Related Links
grid and he can recoup some of his investment. Built on a
                                                                   Armenia Urban Heating Project
stream of the Azat River, the stations operate for only 4
months a year. However, regulations and incentives help to         Armenia Renewable Energy Project
insure a profit.                                                   Armenia Renewable Energy GEF
                                                                   Project
The market for small hydropower stations is well developed in
                                                                   Geofund 2: Armenia Geothermal Project
Armenia and the government has created incentives for
investment. Energy law mandates that the power distribution        World Bank Armenia Program Snapshot
grid buy electricity generated by small hydro power stations       Filling the Heating Gap for Armenia's
for 15 years after they become operational. The Public             Urban Poor Feature Story
Services Regulatory Commission has established feed-in
                                                                   When Heating Is No Longer the Issue
tariffs for the electricity they produce.                          Feature Story

"The feed-in tariffs enable developers to assess, based on         Output-Based Aid in Armenia:
technical parameters, whether it makes business sense to           Connecting Poor Urban Households to
                                                                   Gas Service
invest without having to rely on any state official, and the
guarantee of 15 years of purchase meant that the developers        Video: Armenia CPS: When Heating Is
could confidently invest in this area," says Robert Nazaryan,      No Longer the Issue
Chairman of the Public Services Regulatory Commission.

The end of the energy crisis in the 90's was the beginning of a new era for Armenia. One of the lessons
learned was to use local resources efficiently to ensure the country's energy independence and security.
And as its energy resources are limited, renewable energy is of great importance.
"The development of renewable energy in Armenia is of triple importance. First, it uses local energy
sources, second it uses renewable energy sources and third, it uses clean sources of energy," says
Arayik Marjanyan, Renewable Energy Program Coordinator, Renewable Resources and Energy
Efficiency Fund.

The World Bank provided a $5 million dollar credit to ensure investments in the sector. Co-financer, the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, invested $7 million dollars; the Cascade Universal
Credit Organization owned by the Cafesjian family foundation invested $3 million dollars. Many
commercial banks are now providing loans for the construction of small hydropower stations. Thus, a
favorable legal framework is coupled with the opportunity to get financing.

Ninety four small hydropower stations are operational in Armenia, providing about 3 percent of
Armenia's domestic demand for electricity. Of those, 27 were built under the World Bank's Renewable
Energy Project. An additional 65 hydropower stations are under construction. Once they start operating,
small hydro power stations will meet 6 percent of the internal demand for electricity.

Besides providing electricity, small hydropower stations provide jobs.

"There is a lot of construction of small hydropower stations going on in Vayots Dzor now and it is very
efficient; first of all, even the smallest hydropower station creates 7 new jobs," says Gagik Avetisyan,
operator of the Yeghegnadzor hydrostation.

The "Artavan-1" small hydropower station is under construction now. Armen Mikayelyan from Artavan
village has been working on it for a year.

"We are employed now, which is good. If I did not have this job, I would have to go and cultivate my
land and breed the cattle, barely managing. It isn't good going abroad for seasonal work, either: you
leave your family behind and your children unattended. It's better to work here than abroad," Mikayelyan
says.

The World Bank's Renewable Resources and Energy Efficiency Fund works towards securing
investments in clean energy. Armenia got a $3 million dollar grant from the Global Environment Facility
(GEF) to identify its renewable energy potential and attract private investments. The project designed the
scheme for small hydropower stations, and developed model business plans and guidelines for the
renewable energy sector. This information is available at www.r2e2.am.

Despite remarkable achievements, Armenia's energy sector faces new challenges. A main electricity
generator- the Metzamor nuclear power plant - is set to close, as are several thermal power stations.
Depending on demand, Armenia will need an additional 850 to 1350 megawatts of electricity generation
capacity.

Its state-owned high-voltage transmission network desperately needs investments, which are being
supported by the the World Bank through a transmission line rehabilitation project.

Also, the energy sector is vulnerable to interruptions in imported fuel supply. And the price of imported
natural gas is constantly rising, leading to higher heating and electricity supply tariffs. Affording energy is
a growing concern, especially for the poor.

In order to ensure a reliable and affordable energy supply system, energy efficiency is key for Armenia.

"We should not produce as much as we want, but rather as much as we need, and this difference
between how much we want and how much we need is the energy efficiency that we must achieve"
explains Armen Movsisyan, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. "Otherwise, this will lead to
increase in tariffs, and decrease in reliability and in the level of energy security. This approach must be
applied country-wide, so that we can have a more reliable and secure system."

The International Energy Agency says it is 3 times more expensive to produce one kilowatt/hour of
electricity than to conserve it. Thus energy conservation, too, is a source of energy. A 2008 World Bank
study concluded that energy efficiency improvements could save the country more than $360 million
dollars annually, equivalent to almost 4.5 percent of its 2009 GDP.

"Armenia has a well established energy sector, the institutional reforms that were implemented have
created solid basis for future development and yielded tangible results," says Gevorg Sargsyan, World
Bank project leader for the Renewable Energy Project. "However, the sector faces serious challenges,
which may jeopardize its sustainability. If no measures are taken today, Armenia will face electricity
deficit again. The energy sector needs serious investments to reinforce the implemented reforms and
secure the country's bright and warm future."
