Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4332-VN 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Sixth Poverty Reduction Support Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated September 19, 2007 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4332-VN 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 19, 2007 entered into between SOCIALIST 
REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
 (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.   The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to one 
hundred fourteen million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights      
(SDR 114,800,000) (variously,
 “Credit” and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Page  3
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollar. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely a situation 
has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part 
of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Governor or a Deputy Governor of State 
Bank of Vietnam. 
Page  4
3
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
State Bank of Vietnam 
49 Ly Thai To 
Hanoi 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
VIETBANK 
 412248 
  (84-4) 
825-0612 
 
Hanoi 
  NHTWVT 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 (1-202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
By: /s/ Mr. Nguyen Van Giau 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By: /s/ Mr. Ajay Chhibber 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The list of sectors in which the state will retain one hundred percent (100%) 
ownership of enterprises has been further restricted.
 
2. 
State-owned commercial banks have been required to publicly disclose their 
financial statements, in line with internationally accepted standards. 
 
3. 
In the road transport sector, investment ownership has been transferred from the 
Ministry of Transport to the Vietnam Road Administration to enable better 
integration of the budgets for capital and recurrent expenditures. 
 
4. 
Contract specifications, investor qualifications, and the treatment of unsolicited 
proposals have been clarified in respect of BOT projects.  
 
5. 
Performance standards for primary education teachers have been extended 
nationwide, and evidence-based assessments required.   
 
6. 
The Law on HIV-AIDS has been enacted and action plans prepared to scale-up 
harm reduction activities, and counter stigma and discrimination. 
 
7. 
The Law on Gender Equality has been enacted which unifies the legal framework 
to address gender disparities and promotes 
women’s participation in decision 
making. 
 
8. 
A national forest strategy has been adopted which strengthens the linkages 
between the protective and economic functions of forests, and promotes local 
ownership of forest land. 
 
9. Criteria
 
for the transparent allocation of state budget for capital expenditures, 
including criteria based on population size, poverty incidence and ethnicity, have 
been issued. 
 
10. 
State Audit of Vietnam has publicly disclosed the results of its
 
2005
audits and 
its annual audit plan for 2007. 
 
11. 
Amendments to the Law on the Organization of the National Assembly have 
been enacted establishing separate judiciary, legal, economic and budget 
Page  6
5
committees, thereby strengthening the supervisory function of the National 
Assembly. 
 
12. 
The national steering committee on anti-corruption has been established and 
made operational, and given the power to suspend high-level officials where 
there are indications of corruption.  
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set 
out in the table below: 
 
Allocations
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR
)
Single Tranche 
114,800,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
114,800,000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
1. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to presenting to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter 
maintain a deposit account in Dollar (“Foreign Currency Deposit 
Account”) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  All 
withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account; and 
 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Financing into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, an equivalent 
amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget management system, 
in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
 
D. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
have the Foreign Currency Deposit Account audited by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association; 
Page  7
6
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four (4)
 months after the date of the Association’s request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Foreign 
Currency Deposit Account and its audit as the Association shall 
reasonably request.
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2007. 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)*
On each May 15 and November 15: 
 
commencing November 15, 2017 to and including 
May 15, 2027 
 
1% 
commencing November 15, 2027 to and including 
May 15, 2047 
 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentages of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  9
8
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“BOT” means Build-Operate-Transfer. 
 
2. 
“Foreign Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in paragraph 
C.1, Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
.
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
Page  10
9
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
5. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty, set forth in the 
Recipient’s Socio-economic Development Plan 2006-2010 (SEDP 2006-2010) 
approved by Resolution No. 56/2006/QH11 of June 29, 2006 by the National 
Assembly, together with the Action Plan of the Government to implement the 
SEDP issued by Resolution No. 25/2006/NQ-CP of October 9, 2006 of the Prime 
Minister; the Recipient having expressed its commitment to the execution of said 
Program, and requested assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution in a letter to the Association, dated May 22, 2007. 
Page  11
10 
 
6. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
 
7. 
“State Audit of Vietnam” means the supreme audit institution in Vietnam 
established by the National Assembly.  
 
8. 
“Vietnam Road Administration” means the government agency under the direct 
authority of the Recipient’s Ministry of Transport, established pursuant to Decree 
No. 07–CP of January 30, 1993, and responsible inter alia for planning and 
implementing works in the road sector in accordance with Decision 2567 of 
August 29, 2003 of the Ministry of Transport.  
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
Page  12
11 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
