Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2964 
Operation Name 
Vietnam Poverty Reduction Support Credit 6 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General public administration sector (20%);General agriculture, 
fishing and forestry sector (20%);General education sector 
(20%);General finance sector (20%);Health (20%) 
Project ID 
P101724 
Borrower(s) 
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
Implementing Agency 
THE STATE BANK OF VIETNAM 
Date PID Prepared 
March 13, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 7, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 21, 2007 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Comprehensive economic reforms have led to rapid economic growth and sound progress on 
development outcomes in Vietnam.  GDP per capita has increased at roughly 6.2 percent per year in real 
terms in the last 10 years.  In US dollar terms income per capita rose from 260 in 1995 to 400 in 2000 to 
a
current level of 
725.
Vietnam’s transition to a market economy has been linked closely with its efforts 
towards international integration. In 2007 Vietnam became a member of the WTO.  The share of state 
owned enterprises (SOEs) in economic activity has been declining, being taken up by a fast growing 
private sector.  
 
Amidst such rapid economic transformation, inequality indicators have been remarkably stable.  The 
Gini index increased from 0.34 in 1993, the year of the first representative household expenditure 
survey, to 0.37 in 2004.  Based on a consumption basket of food and non-food items sustaining an intake 
of 2,100 calories per person per day, the poverty headcount declined from 58 percent in 1993 to less 
than 20 percent in 2004.  Net enrolment rates reached 94 percent for primary, 80 percent for lower 
secondary and 45 percent for upper secondary in the school year 2003-04. Vietnam has also made 
considerable gains towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals on health, especially those 
related to infant and child mortality.  
 
Having emerged from massive poverty less than two decades ago, the vision now is to attain middle-
income status by 2010 and on current trends GDP per capita could cross the $1000 benchmark in three 
years time.  However, attaining middle-income status is seen as more than a quantitative goal.  Referring 
to such status, rather than to any specific growth rate or threshold for GDP per capita, is a way to 
emphasize the need for a different, more sophisticated set of economic institutions.  Vietnam has by now 
a
much more diversified economy, involving an increasing number of stakeholders, and requiring finer 
steering mechanisms.  Reaching middle-income status requires further financial deepening to support 
capital mobilization, the regulation of access to and pricing of infrastructure services, the gradual 
development of modern social insurance, more effective tools for environmental protection, legal and 
judiciary reforms, and the effective containment of corruption, among others. The reforms associated 
with attaining middle-income status are more complex than those needed to move away from central 
planning.  Active donor engagement will aim at contributing to improving the content and coherence of 
such reforms. 
Page  2
The new Socio-Economic Development Plan (SEDP) 2006-2010 articulates this vision, reflecting the 
transition towards strategic planning for a market economy. Unlike previous five-year plans, which 
focused on quantitative targets as if the state was still in charge of producing most goods and services, 
the SEDP emphasizes development outcomes, and the policy reforms needed to attain them.   It relies on 
data analysis, rather than on administrative reporting, to substantiate its diagnostics and 
recommendations.  It has also led to the adoption of a framework to monitor progress towards attaining 
development outcomes.  The process through which the SEDP was prepared was more encompassing 
than in the past.  Extensive consultations were held, going beyond the boundaries of government, and 
involving businesses, grassroots communities, overseas Vietnamese and donors.  This was the first time 
a
five-year plan was declassified and discussed by the National Assembly before being considered by 
the Party. 
 
The Bank has been engaged in a wide ranging policy dialogue with the government of Vietnam for a 
number of yea
rs. The government’s reform efforts have thus far been supported through a series of five 
PRSC operations (PRSC 1-5).  The government has viewed the analytical strength of the Bank as a key 
factor in helping it refine and put into operation the main elements of its reform agenda. The objectives 
of the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy for Vietnam have been aligned with those of the SEDP.  
 
The Bank’s PRSCs are instruments that are very well suited to assist the government in successfully 
carrying out the strategic reforms articulated in the SEDP.  Many of the reforms call for additional fiscal 
resources, and the PRSCs directly add resources to the government’s budget.  The reform agenda 
embodied in the SEDP is broad, encompassing a number of sectors. Implementation of these reforms 
requires the interaction of a large number of government ministries and agencies.  The PRSC process 
provides a platform for such co-operative interaction, much more so than any sector level instrument. 
Such cross-sectoral dialogue also helps to prioritize and sequence policy actions by the government. The 
breadth of the reform program also implies the involvement of a large number of donors. The PRSCs 
have proved to be a very useful tool for donor co-ordination across an agreed set of policy actions, 
thereby significantly reducing transaction costs in the delivery of development assistance. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed operation will be the first in a new series of PRSC operations (PRSC 6-10) aimed to 
support the objectives of the SEDP (2006-10). The donor community has decided to align its efforts 
behind the SEDP, while acknowledging that other key documents will shape reforms in the coming 
years.  Such alignment is a testimony to the strong ownership of the reform program by the government 
of Vietnam.  The SEDP presents a credible and sustainable reform strategy to foster its objectives of 
economic growth and poverty reduction.  The reforms aim at completing Vietnam’s transition to a 
market economy and prepare its institutions for middle income status. The reforms are organized around 
three pillars: supporting business development; keeping growth inclusive; and better managing natural 
resources; a fourth, underlying pillar concerns the need to modernize institutions so as to deliver on the 
other three fronts.  
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
Policy actions supported under PRSC 6 will range over the four pillars of the SEDP.  The broad areas 
they will cover include: the implementation of WTO commitments with a “development” rather than 
“compliance” approach; supporting SOE reforms; equitization and improved corporate governance of 
Page  3
banks; improving the investment climate through implementation of the new Investment and Enterprise 
Laws; improving the quality of education; strengthening the legal and policy framework for HIV/AIDS; 
better allocation of budget resources in the health sector; improving gender equality; improving the 
management of forest resources; making public capital expenditure more pro-poor; greater transparency 
in managing public resources; legal aid to marginalized groups; and implementation of the 
anticorruption law. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
The rapid growth and structural transformation associated with Vietnam’s transition to a market 
economy does raise issues of environmental sustainability. To address these concerns PRSC operations 
have contained policy actions aimed at strengthening environmental management and encouraging the 
sustainable use of natural resources.  In the proposed operation, following the SEDP, environmental and 
natural resource management is viewed as a key pillar of the reform agenda. Supporting analytical work 
by the Bank, including the Country Environmental Assessment, as well as analyses of Poverty-
Environment Nexus and biodiversity, are employed to better understand environmental impacts, 
identifying gaps in the existing institutional arrangements and incentives necessary for improved 
environmental governance.  The government has developed a regulatory framework for environmental 
impact assessments, standards and compliance monitoring with the overall responsibility under the 
Ministry of Natural Resource and Environment.  Though its present field level capacity is limited, the 
government appears committed to undertaking a substantive program of environmental capacity 
building, institutional strengthening, environmental and land use planning as well as physical investment 
projects addressing environmental issues.  Donor support for national environmental programs is strong 
and covers a diverse range of initiatives across many sectors. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
150 
 Total 
150 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Martin G. Rama 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (84 4) 9346600 – ext. 224 
Fax: (84 4) 9346597 
Email: Mrama@worldbank.org 
Location: Hanoi, Vietnam (IBRD)
 
